ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be considered carefully along with the other information provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in reaching a decision regarding an investment in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business General economic conditions could adversely impact our results of operations. A further slowdown in the U.S. economy or other economic conditions affecting capital markets, such as declining oil and gas prices, failing or weakened financial institutions, inability to access cash in our bank accounts, inflation, deteriorating business conditions, interest rates and tax rates, may adversely affect our business and financial condition by reducing overall public confidence in our financial strength, by causing us to further reduce our capital expenditure program and curtail planned drilling activities or by causing the oil field service sector of the domestic oil and gas industry to reduce equipment, labor and services that would otherwise be available to us. Further, some of our properties are operated by third parties whom we depend upon for timely performance of drilling and other contractual obligations and, in some cases, for distribution to us of our proportionate share of revenues from sales of oil and gas we produce. If current economic conditions adversely impact our third party operators, we are exposed to the risk that drilling operations or revenue disbursements to us could be delayed. This “trickle down” effect could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The consequences of a recession may include a lower level of economic activity and uncertainty regarding energy prices and the capital and commodity markets. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect our revenue, liquidity and future growth. Instability in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, also may affect the cost of capital and our ability to raise capital. These events increase the likelihood that we could become highly vulnerable to further adverse general economic consequences and industry conditions and that our cash flows and financial condition may be materially adversely affected as a result thereof. In addition, the instability and uncertainty in the financial markets has made it difficult for us to follow through with drilling operations and other business activities that we had planned on implementing before the current financial crisis. Lower oil and gas prices, the financial markets and U.S. economy have altered our ability and willingness to continue drilling operations at a pace consistent with 2007 and 2008 levels. (17) Table of Contents The economic situation could also have an impact on our customers and suppliers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us, and on our operating partners, resulting in delays in operations or failure to make required payments. Additionally, the current economic situation could lead to reduced demand for oil and natural gas or further reductions in the prices of oil and natural gas, or both, which could have a negative impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. While the ultimate outcome and impact of the current financial crisis cannot be predicted, it may have a material adverse effect on our future liquidity and financial condition. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than twelve months. In recent months, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses and interest on our debt. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer. The principal sources of our liquidity have been cash flow from our operations, bank borrowings and proceeds from the sale of our debt and equity securities. If cash flow from operations and bank borrowings do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the exploration and production segment of the oil and natural gas industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the possibility that our lenders could develop a negative perception of our long or short-term financial prospects if the level of our business activity decreases significantly due to market downturns. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if rating agencies take negative actions against us. Our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business, most significantly our drilling operations. Such market conditions may limit our ability to: replace, in a timely manner, oil and natural gas reserves that we produce; meet maturing liabilities; generate revenue to meet liquidity needs; and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue more debt or equity securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly impair financing alternatives available to us. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the domestic capital markets and the economy generally. The stress experienced by domestic capital markets that began in the second half of 2008 has continued and substantially increased during the first quarter of 2009. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil and gas prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and recession. In addition, the fixed-income markets are experiencing a period of extreme volatility which has negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. (18) Table of Contents Initially, the concerns on the part of market participants were focused on the subprime segment of the mortgage-backed securities market. However, these concerns have since expanded to include a broad range of mortgage and asset-backed and other fixed income securities, including those rated investment grade, the U.S. and international credit and interbank money markets generally, and a wide range of financial institutions and markets, asset classes and sectors. As a result, capital markets have experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased probabilities of default. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on us because our liquidity and ability to fund our capital expenditures is dependent in part upon our bank borrowings and access to the public capital markets. Our revenues are likely to decline in such circumstances and our profit margins could erode. In addition, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. Factors such as business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower corporate earnings and lower business investment, our operations could be negatively impacted. Purchasers of our oil and gas production may delay or be unable to make timely payments to us. Adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The current mortgage crisis has also raised the possibility of future legislative and regulatory actions in addition to the recent enactment of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) that could further impact our business. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur, or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that actions of the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve the intended effect. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, on October 3, 2008, President Bush signed the EESA into law. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets. The Federal Government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. There can be no assurance as to what impact such actions will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility currently being experienced. Such continued volatility could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, or the trading price of our common stock. The impairment of financial institutions could adversely affect us. We have exposure to counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks that we rely upon for our credit facilities. In the event of default of one or more of these counterparties, we may have exposure in the form of our ability to withdraw funds on short notice to meet our obligations and short-term investments. We also have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of derivative transactions in that the collectibility of amounts owed to us by a defaulting counterparty may be delayed or impaired. However, our derivative instruments provide rights of setoff of amounts we owe under our credit facilities against amounts owed to us by a counterparty under our derivative transactions. If the counterparties to the derivative instruments we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. (19) Table of Contents We use derivative instruments to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. We enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including swaps, puts and collars with counterparties who are also bank lenders under our credit facility. See Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”. If our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. This is a more pronounced risk to us in view of the recent stresses suffered by financial institutions. Such failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot provide assurance that our counterparties will honor their obligations now or in the future. A counterparty’s insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments required under terms of derivative instruments with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. However, our derivative instruments allow us to setoff amounts owed to us by a counterparty against amounts that are owed by us to a counterparty under our credit facility. At the date of filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission, our counterparties included Citibank, N.A. and BNP Paribas. As of December 31, 2008, we had a net derivative asset with Citibank, N.A. of $18.7 million and a net derivative asset with BNP Paribas of $5.6 million. The fluctuation and volatility of oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, the value of our mineral properties, our revenues and profitability. Our business, the value of our oil and natural gas properties and our revenues and profitability are substantially dependent on prevailing prices of oil and natural gas. Our ability to borrow and to obtain additional capital on attractive terms is also substantially dependent upon oil and natural gas prices. Volatile oil and natural gas prices make it difficult to estimate the value of producing properties for acquisition and often causes disruption in the market for acquiring oil and natural gas producing properties, as buyers and sellers have difficulty agreeing on such value. Price volatility also makes it difficult to budget for acquisitions, development and exploitation projects. Over the last two years oil prices have fluctuated from approximately $34.00 to approximately $145.00 per barrel. Subsequent to June 30, 2008, the prices of oil and natural gas have declined significantly. Between June 30, 2008 and December 31, 2008, oil prices fell 68% from $140.00 per barrel to $44.60 per barrel, and natural gas prices fell 58% from $13.35 per Mcf to $5.62 per Mcf. If commodity prices continue to decline our financial condition and results of operation would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, any further and extended decline in the price of oil and natural gas could have an adverse effect on our business, the value of our properties, our borrowing capacity, revenues, profitability and cash flows from operations. The volatility of the oil and natural gas industry may have an adverse impact on our operations. Our revenues, cash flows and profitability are substantially dependent upon prevailing prices for oil and natural gas. In recent years, oil and natural gas prices and, therefore, the level of drilling, exploration, development and production, have been extremely volatile. Any significant or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could impair access to future sources of capital. Volatility in the oil and natural gas industry results from numerous factors, over which we have no control, including: • the level of oil and natural gas prices, expectations about future oil and natural gas prices and the ability of international cartels to set and maintain production levels and prices; • the cost of exploring for, producing and transporting oil and natural gas; • the level and price of foreign oil and natural gas transportation; • available pipeline and other oil and natural gas transportation capacity; • weather conditions; (20) Table of Contents • international political, military, regulatory and economic conditions; • the level of consumer demand; • the price and the availability of alternative fuels; • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures; and • the ability of oil and natural gas companies to raise capital. Significant declines in oil and natural gas prices for an extended period may: • impair our financial condition, liquidity, ability to finance planned capital expenditures and results of operations; • reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically; • cause us to delay or postpone some of our capital projects; • reduce our revenues, operating income and cash flow; and • reduce the recorded value of our oil and natural gas properties. No assurance can be given that current levels of oil and natural gas prices will continue. We expect oil and natural gas prices, as well as the oil and natural gas industry generally, to continue to be volatile. We must replace oil and natural gas reserves that we produce. Failure to replace reserves may negatively affect our business. Our future performance depends in part upon our ability to find, develop and acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Our proved reserves decline as they are depleted and we must locate and develop or acquire new oil and natural gas reserves to replace reserves being depleted by production. No assurance can be given that we will be able to find and develop or acquire additional reserves on an economic basis. If we cannot economically replace our reserves, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We are subject to uncertainties in reserve estimates and future net cash flows. There is substantial uncertainty in estimating quantities of proved reserves and projecting future production rates and the timing of development expenditures. No one can measure underground accumulations of oil and natural gas in an exact way. Accordingly, oil and natural gas reserve engineering requires subjective estimations of those accumulations. Estimates of other engineers might differ widely from those of our independent petroleum engineers, and our independent petroleum engineers may make material changes to reserve estimates based on the results of actual drilling, testing, and production. As a result, our reserve estimates often differ from the quantities of oil and natural gas we ultimately recover. Also, we make certain assumptions regarding future oil and natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs that may prove incorrect. Any significant variance from these assumptions could greatly affect our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows. Some of our reserve estimates are made without the benefit of a lengthy production history and are calculated using volumetric analysis. Those estimates are less reliable than estimates based on a lengthy production history. Volumetric analysis involves estimating the volume of a reservoir based on the net feet of pay and an estimation of the productive area. (21) Table of Contents The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs in effect on the day of estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties also will be affected by factors such as: • actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas; • the amount and timing of actual production; • supply and demand of oil and natural gas; • limits of increases in consumption by natural gas purchasers; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater financial, technological and other resources than we do. We operate in the highly competitive areas of oil and natural gas acquisition, development, exploitation, exploration and production. The oil and natural gas industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. We face intense competition from independent, technology-driven companies as well as from both major and other independent oil and natural gas companies in each of the following areas: • seeking to acquire desirable producing properties or new leases for future exploration; • marketing our oil and natural gas production; • integrating new technologies; and • seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise necessary to develop and operate our properties. Many of our competitors have financial, technological and other resources substantially greater than ours, and some of them are fully integrated oil and natural gas companies. These companies may be able to pay more for development prospects and productive oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. Further, these companies may enjoy technological advantages and may be able to implement new technologies more rapidly than we can. Our ability to develop and exploit our oil and natural gas properties and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend upon our ability to successfully conduct operations, implement advanced technologies, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. We do not control all of our operations and development projects, which may adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations. (22) Table of Contents Substantially all of our business activities are conducted through joint operating agreements under which we own partial interests in oil and natural gas wells. As of December 31, 2008, we owned interests in 533 gross (472.36 net) oil and natural gas wells for which we were the operator and 644 gross (306.79 net) oil and natural gas wells where we were not the operator. Included in these wells are 258 gross (131.30 net) wells which are shut in or temporarily abandoned and 161 gross (134.29 net) injection wells. Furthermore, we are not the operator of any of our interests in the Barnett Shale project. As a result, the success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others depends upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator’s: • timing and amount of capital expenditures; • expertise and financial resources; • inclusion of other participants in drilling wells; and • use of technology. Further, we may not be in a position to remove the operator in the event of poor performance, and we may not have control over normal operating procedures, expenditures or future development of underlying properties. If drilling and development activities are not conducted on these properties or are not conducted on a timely basis, we may be unable to increase our production or offset normal production declines, which may adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations. Our business is subject to many inherent risks, including operating risks, which may result in substantial losses, and insurance may be unavailable or inadequate to protect us against these risks. Oil and natural gas drilling activities and production operations are highly speculative and involve a high degree of risk. These operations are marked by unprofitable efforts because of dry holes and wells that do not produce oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to return a profit. The success of our operations depends, in part, upon the ability of our management and technical personnel. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain. There is no assurance that our oil and natural gas drilling or acquisition activities will be successful, that any production will be obtained, or that any such production, if obtained, will be profitable. Our operations are subject to all of the operating hazards and risks normally incident to drilling for and producing oil and natural gas. These hazards and risks include, but are not limited to: • explosions, blowouts and fires; • natural disasters; • pressure forcing oil or natural gas out of the wellbore at a dangerous velocity coupled with the potential for fire or explosion; • weather; • failure of oilfield drilling and service equipment and tools; • changes in underground pressure in a formation that causes the surface to collapse or crater; • pipeline ruptures or cement failures; • environmental hazards such as natural gas leaks, oil spills and discharges of toxic gases; and (23) Table of Contents • availability of needed equipment at acceptable prices, including steel tubular products. Any of these risks can cause substantial losses resulting from: • injury or loss of life; • damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • pollution and other environmental damage; • regulatory investigations and penalties; • suspension of our operations; and • repair and remediation costs. As is customary in the industry, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these hazards. We maintain general liability insurance and obtain Operator’s Extra Expense insurance on a well-by-well basis. We carry insurance against certain pollution hazards, subject to our insurance policy’s terms, conditions and exclusions. If we sustain an uninsured loss or liability, our ability to operate could be materially adversely affected. Our oil and natural gas operations are not subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the federal government. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, exploration for and development of oil and natural gas reserves. Historically, we have financed capital expenditures primarily with cash generated by operations, proceeds from borrowings and sales of our equity securities. In addition, we have sold and may consider selling additional assets to raise additional operating capital. From time to time, we may also reduce our ownership interests in our projects in order to reduce our capital expenditure requirements. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital is subject to a number of variables, including: • our proved reserves; • the level of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells; • the prices at which oil and natural gas are sold; and • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. Any one of these variables can materially affect our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. If our revenues or the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility decrease as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to undertake or complete future drilling projects. We may, from time to time, seek additional financing, either in the form of increased bank borrowings, sale of debt or equity securities or other forms of financing and there can be no assurance as to the availability of any additional financing upon terms acceptable to us. There are risks in acquiring producing properties, including difficulties in integrating acquired properties into our business, additional liabilities and expenses associated with acquired properties, (24) Table of Contents diversion of management attention, increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations and incurrence of additional debt. Our business strategy includes growing our reserve base through acquisitions. Our failure to integrate acquired properties successfully into our existing business, or the expense incurred in consummating future acquisitions, could result in unanticipated expenses and losses. In addition, we may assume cleanup or reclamation obligations or other unanticipated liabilities in connection with these acquisitions. The scope and cost of these obligations may ultimately be materially greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. We are continually investigating opportunities for acquisitions. In connection with future acquisitions, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant management attention and financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Our ability to make future acquisitions may be constrained by our ability to obtain additional financing. Possible future acquisitions could result in our incurring additional debt, contingent liabilities and expense, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We could experience delays in securing drilling equipment and crews, which would cause us to fail to meet our drilling plans and negatively impact our operations. We utilize drilling contractors to perform all of the drilling on our projects. We maintain a limited number of supervisory and field personnel to oversee drilling and production operations. Our plans to drill additional wells are determined in large part by the anticipated availability of acceptable drilling equipment and crews. We do not currently have any contractual commitments that ensure we will have adequate drilling equipment or crews to achieve our drilling plans. If our anticipated levels of drilling equipment are not made available to us, we will have to modify our drilling plans, which would cause us to fail to meet our drilling plans and negatively impact our operations. If we cannot meet our drilling plans, the value of your investment in us may decline. The marketability of our natural gas production depends on facilities that we typically do not own or control. The marketability of our natural gas production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. We generally deliver natural gas through natural gas gathering systems and natural gas pipelines that we do not own. Our ability to produce and market natural gas on a commercial basis could be harmed by any significant change in the cost or availability of such systems and pipelines. Our producing properties are geographically concentrated. A substantial portion of our proved oil and natural gas reserves are located in the Permian Basin of west Texas and eastern New Mexico. Specifically, as of December 31, 2008, approximately 83% of the present value of our estimated future net revenues from our proved reserves relates to our proved reserves located in the Permian Basin. As a result, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of production from these wells due to mechanical problems, damages to the current producing reservoirs, significant governmental regulation, including any curtailment of production, or interruption of transportation of oil or natural gas produced from the wells. (25) Table of Contents Our derivative activities create a risk of financial loss. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil and natural gas, we have in the past and expect to continue to enter into oil and natural gas price risk management arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. We use derivative arrangements such as swaps, puts and collars that generally result in a fixed price or a range of minimum and maximum price limits over a specified time period. Certain derivative contracts may limit the benefits we could realize if actual prices received are above the contract price. In a typical derivative transaction utilizing a swap arrangement, we will have the right to receive from the counterparty the excess of the fixed price specified in the contract over a floating price based on a market index, multiplied by the quantity identified in the derivative contract. If the floating price exceeds the fixed price, we are required to pay the counterparty this difference multiplied by the quantity identified in the derivative contract. Derivative arrangements could prevent us from receiving the full advantage of increases in oil or natural gas prices above the fixed amount specified in the derivative contract. In addition, these transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • production is less than the hedged volumes; • the counterparties to our future contracts fail to perform under the contract; or • a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts oil or natural gas prices. In the past, some of our derivative contracts required us to deliver cash collateral or other assurances of performance to the counterparties in the event that our payment obligations exceeded certain levels. Future collateral requirements are uncertain but will depend on arrangements with our counterparties and highly volatile oil and natural gas prices. In addition, increases in oil and natural gas prices negatively affect the fair value of certain of our derivatives contracts as recorded in our balance sheet and, consequently, our reported net income. Changes in the recorded fair value of certain of our derivatives contracts are marked to market through earnings and the decrease in the fair value of these contracts during any period could result in significant charges to earnings. The increase in oil and natural gas prices will cause this negative effect on earnings to become more significant. We are currently unable to estimate the effects on earnings in future periods, but the effects could be significant. We are subject to complex federal, state and local laws and regulations that could adversely affect our business. Extensive federal, state and local regulation of the oil and natural gas industry significantly affects our operations. In particular, our oil and natural gas exploration, development and production activities are subject to stringent environmental regulations. These regulations have increased the costs of planning, designing, drilling, installing, operating and abandoning our oil and natural gas wells and other related facilities. These regulations may become more demanding in the future. Matters subject to regulation include: • permits for drilling operations; • drilling bonds; • spacing of wells; • unitization and pooling of properties; • environmental protection; • reports concerning operations; and (26) Table of Contents • taxation. Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for: • personal injuries; • property damage; • oil spills; • discharge of hazardous materials; • reclamation costs; • remediation and clean-up costs; and • other environmental damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in the suspension or terminations of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Further, these laws and regulations could change in ways that substantially increase our costs. Any of these liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could make it more expensive for us to conduct our business or cause us to limit or curtail some of our operations. Declining oil and natural gas prices may cause us to record ceiling test write-downs. We use the full cost method of accounting to account for our oil and natural gas operations. This means that we capitalize the costs to acquire, explore for and develop oil and natural gas properties. Under full cost accounting rules, capitalized costs, less accumulated amortization and related deferred income taxes, shall not exceed an amount (the ceiling) equal to the sum of: (i) The after tax present value of estimated future net revenues computed by applying current prices of oil and gas reserves to estimated future production of proved oil and gas reserves as of the date of the latest balance sheet presented, less estimated future expenditures (based on current costs) to be incurred in developing and producing the proved reserves computed using a discount factor of ten percent and assuming continuation of existing economic conditions; (ii) the cost of properties not being amortized; and (iii) the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproven properties included in the costs being amortized. If unamortized costs capitalized within a cost center, less related deferred income taxes, exceed the ceiling, the excess shall be charged to expense and separately disclosed during the period in which the excess occurs. Amounts thus required to be written off shall not be reinstated for any subsequent increase in the cost center ceiling. This non-cash write-off does not affect cash flow from operating activities, but it does reduce stockholders’ equity. The risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties increases when oil and natural gas prices decline. In addition, write-downs may occur if we experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. As a result of the steep decline in oil and natural gas prices during 2008, we recognized an impairment of $300.5 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. We cannot assure you that we will not experience further ceiling test write-downs in the future. Terrorist activities may adversely affect our business. Terrorist activities, including events similar to those of September 11, 2001, or armed conflict involving the United States may adversely affect our business activities and financial condition. If events of this nature occur and persist, the resulting political and social instability could adversely affect prevailing oil and natural gas prices and cause a reduction in our revenues. In addition, oil and natural gas (27) Table of Contents production facilities, transportation systems and storage facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks, and our operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to our operations is destroyed or damaged. Costs associated with insurance and other security measures may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. We are highly dependent upon key personnel. Our success is highly dependent upon the services, efforts and abilities of key members of our management team. Our operations could be materially and adversely affected if one or more of these individuals become unavailable for any reason. We do not have employment agreements with any of our officers or other key employees. Without these agreements, our ability to obtain and retain qualified officers and employees may be adversely affected, especially in periods of competitive market conditions. Our future growth and profitability will also be dependent upon our ability to attract and retain other qualified management personnel and to effectively manage our growth. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so. Part of our business is seasonal in nature. Weather conditions affect the demand for and price of oil and natural gas and can also delay drilling activities, temporarily disrupting our overall business plans. Demand for oil and natural gas is typically higher during winter months than summer months. However, warm winters can also lead to downward price trends. As a result, our results of operations may be adversely affected by seasonal conditions. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports. If, as a result of deficiencies in our internal controls, we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business decision process may be adversely affected, our business and operating results could be harmed, and investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information. Our business can be adversely impacted by downward changes in oil and natural gas prices, and most significantly by declines in oil prices. Our revenues, cash flows and profitability are substantially dependent on prevailing oil and natural gas prices, which are volatile. Declines in oil and natural gas prices would not only reduce revenue, but could reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and reserves. Further, oil and natural gas prices do not necessarily move in tandem. Because approximately 70% of our estimated future revenues from our proved reserves as of December 31, 2008 are from oil production, we will be more affected by movements in oil prices. A shortage of available drilling rigs, equipment and personnel may delay or restrict our operations. The oil and natural gas industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of drilling rigs, equipment and supplies are substantially greater. In addition, demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling rig crews rise with increases in the number of active rigs in service. Shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel may increase drilling costs or delay or restrict our exploration and (28) Table of Contents development operations, all or any one of which could harm our business financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We do not pay dividends on our common stock. We have never paid dividends on our common stock, and do not intend to pay cash dividends on the common stock in the foreseeable future. Net income from our operations, if any, will be used for the development of our business, including capital expenditures and to retire debt. Any decisions to pay dividends on the common stock in the future will depend upon our profitability at the time, the available cash and other factors. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is further limited by the terms of our revolving credit facility and the Indenture governing our 101/4% senior notes. Our stockholders’ rights plan, provisions in our corporate governance documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of Parallel, which could decrease the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may discourage other persons from initiating a tender offer or takeover attempt that a stockholder might consider to be in the best interest of all stockholders, including takeover attempts that might result in a premium to be paid over the market price of our stock. On October 5, 2000, our Board of Directors adopted a stockholder rights plan. The plan is designed to protect Parallel from unfair or coercive takeover attempts and to prevent a potential acquirer from gaining control of Parallel without fairly compensating all of the stockholders. The plan authorized 50,000 shares of $0.10 par Series A Preferred Stock Purchase Rights. A dividend of one Right for each share of our outstanding common stock was distributed to stockholders of record at the close of business on October 16, 2000. If a public announcement is made that a person has acquired 15% or more of our common stock, or a tender or exchange offer is made for 15% of more of the common stock, each Right entitles the holder to purchase from the company one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, at an exercise price of $26.00 per one one-thousandth of a share, subject to adjustment. In addition, under certain circumstances, the rights entitle the holders to buy Parallel’s stock at a 50% discount. We are authorized to issue 10.0 million shares of preferred stock. There are no outstanding preferred shares as of December 31, 2008. Our Board of Directors has total discretion in the issuance and the determination of the rights and privileges of any shares of preferred stock which might be issued in the future, which rights and privileges may be detrimental to the holders of the common stock. It is not possible to state the actual effect of the authorization and issuance of a new series of preferred stock upon the rights of holders of the common stock and other series of preferred stock unless and until the Board of Directors determines the attributes of any new series of preferred stock and the specific rights of its holders. These effects might include: • restrictions on dividends on common stock and other series of preferred stock if dividends on any new series of preferred stock have not been paid; • dilution of the voting power of common stock and other series of preferred stock to the extent that a new series of preferred stock has voting rights, or to the extent that any new series of preferred stock is convertible into common stock; • dilution of the equity interest of common stock and other series of preferred stock; and • limitation on the right of holders of common stock and other series of preferred stock to share in Parallel’s assets upon liquidation until satisfaction of any liquidation preference attributable to any new series of preferred stock. (29) Table of Contents The issuance of preferred stock in the future could discourage, delay or prevent a tender offer, proxy contest or other similar transaction involving a potential change in control of Parallel that might be viewed favorably by stockholders. Future sales of our common stock could adversely affect our stock prices. Substantial sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception by the market that those sales could occur, may lower our stock price or make it difficult for us to raise additional equity capital in the future. These potential sales could include sales of our common stock by our directors and officers, who beneficially owned approximately 3.10% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of February 17, 2009. The price of our common stock may fluctuate which may cause our common stock to trade at a substantially lower price than the price which you paid for our common stock. The trading price of our common stock and the price at which we may sell securities in the future is subject to substantial fluctuations in response to various factors, including any of the following: our ability to successfully accomplish our business strategy; the trading volume in our stock; changes in governmental regulations; actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly or annual financial results; our involvement in litigation; general market conditions; the prices of oil and natural gas; our ability to economically replace our reserves; announcements by us and our competitors; our liquidity; our ability to raise additional funds; and other events. If securities analysts downgrade our stock or cease coverage of us, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. Furthermore, there are many large, well-established, publicly traded companies active in our industry and market, which may mean that it is less likely that we will receive widespread analyst coverage. If one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Risks Related to Our 101/4% Senior Notes and Our Other Indebtedness We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our debt, including our 101/4% senior notes. As of December 31, 2008, we had total debt of approximately $370.9 million (of which $145.9 million consisted of our 101/4% senior notes due 2014 net of $4.1 million in unamortized issue discount and $225.0 million consisted of borrowings under our revolving credit facility, excluding letters of credit). Our level of debt could have important consequences for you, including the following: • we may have difficulty borrowing money in the future for acquisitions, capital expenditures or to meet our operating expenses or other general corporate obligations; • we will need to use a substantial portion of our cash flows to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the amount of money we have for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other business activities; • we may have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage; (30) Table of Contents • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our industry or the economy in general, especially declines in oil and natural gas prices; and • our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. We may incur substantially more debt, which may intensify the risks described above, including our ability to service our indebtedness. We may be able to incur substantially more debt in the future. Although the Indenture governing our 101/4% senior notes and the amended and restated credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility contain restrictions on our incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. As of December 31, 2008, after taking into consideration our outstanding letters of credit, we have approximately $4.6 million of additional borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility, subject to specific requirements, including compliance with financial covenants. In addition, the Indenture governing our 101/4% senior notes and our revolving credit facility do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. To the extent new indebtedness is added to our current indebtedness levels, the risks described above could substantially intensify. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the 101/4% senior notes, and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash from operations in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, including the prices that we receive for oil and natural gas. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our revolving credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. The Indenture governing our 101/4% senior notes and the amended and restated credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility restricts our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness, including our revolving credit facility, would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms. If we fail to meet our payment obligations under our revolving credit facility, those lenders would be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our assets and liquidate those assets. Under those circumstances, our cash flow and capital resources could be insufficient for payment of interest on and principal of our debt in the future, including payments on our 101/4% senior notes, and any such alternative measures may be unsuccessful or may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations, which could cause us to default on our obligations, impair our liquidity, or cause the holders of our 10 1/4% senior notes to lose a portion of or the entire value of their investment. A default on our obligations could result in: • our debt holders declaring all outstanding principal and interest due and payable; (31) Table of Contents • the lenders under our revolving credit facility terminating their commitments to loan us money and foreclose against the assets securing their loans to us; and • our bankruptcy or liquidation, which is likely to result in delays in the payment of our 101/4% senior notes and in the exercise of enforcement remedies under our 101/4% senior notes. In addition, provisions under the bankruptcy code or general principles of equity that could result in the impairment of your rights include the automatic stay, avoidance of preferential transfers by a trustee or a debtor-in-possession, limitations of collectibility of unmatured interest or attorneys’ fees and forced restructuring of our 101/4% senior notes. Restrictive debt covenants in the Indenture and the amended and restated credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility restrict our business in many ways. The Indenture governing our 101/4% senior notes contains a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • transfer or sell assets; • make investments; • pay dividends, redeem subordinated indebtedness or make other restricted payments; • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue disqualified capital stock; • create or incur liens; • incur dividend or other payment restrictions affecting certain subsidiaries; • consummate a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • engage in businesses other than the oil and gas business. These covenants could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations that the restrictive covenants impose on us. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the 101/4% senior notes which, if not cured or waived, could result in acceleration of the 101/4% senior notes. In addition, the amended and restated credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility contains restrictive covenants and requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged substantially all of our assets as collateral under the revolving credit facility. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay our revolving credit facility and our other indebtedness, including the 101/4% senior notes. (32) Table of Contents Our borrowings under our revolving credit facility expose us to interest rate risk. Our borrowings under our revolving credit facility are, and are expected to continue to be, at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease. We are subject to many restrictions under our revolving credit facility. If we default under our revolving credit facility, the lenders could foreclose on, and acquire control of, substantially all of our assets. Our revolving credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount, determined by the lenders in their sole discretion, based upon projected revenues from the oil and natural gas properties securing our loan. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of all lenders. If all lenders do not agree on an increase, then the borrowing base will be the lowest borrowing base determined by any lender. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid immediately, or we must pledge other oil and natural gas properties as additional collateral. Given the current conditions in the credit markets and lower commodity prices, it is possible that the borrowing base under our bank credit facility may be reduced at the time of the next redetermination of our borrowing base, which is scheduled to be April 1, 2009. We do not currently have any substantial properties that are not pledged and no assurance can be given that we would be able to make any mandatory principal prepayments required under the revolving credit facility. The lenders under our revolving credit facility have liens on substantially all of our assets. Additionally, the revolving credit facility restricts our ability to obtain additional financing, make investments, lease equipment, sell assets and engage in business combinations. We are also required to comply with certain financial covenants and ratios under this facility. Although we were in compliance with these covenants at December 31, 2008, in the past we have had to request waivers from our banks because of our non-compliance with certain financial covenants and ratios. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control. As a result of the liens held by our lenders, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under this credit facility, including our failure to meet any of the required financial covenants or ratios, the lenders would be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our assts and liquidate those assets. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants under the revolving credit facility could result in a default under both the revolving credit facility and the Indenture governing our 101/4% senior notes, which could cause all of our existing indebtedness to be immediately due and payable. Our 101/4% senior notes are structurally subordinated to any of our secured indebtedness to the extent of the assets securing such indebtedness. Our obligations under the 101/4% senior notes are unsecured, but our obligations under our revolving credit facility are secured by liens on substantially all of our assets. Holders of this indebtedness and any other secured indebtedness that we may incur in the future will have claims with respect to our assets constituting collateral for such indebtedness that are prior to claims of holders of the 101/4% senior notes. In the event of a default on such secured indebtedness or our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, those assets would be available to satisfy obligations with respect to the indebtedness secured thereby before any payment could be made on the 101/4% senior notes. Accordingly, any such secured indebtedness will effectively be senior to the 101/4% senior notes to the extent of the value of the collateral securing the indebtedness. While the Indenture governing the 101/4% senior notes places some limitations on our ability to create liens, there are significant exceptions to these limitations that will allow us to secure some kinds of indebtedness without equally and ratably securing the 101/4% senior notes, including any future indebtedness we may incur under a credit facility. To the extent the value of (33) Table of Contents the collateral is not sufficient to satisfy our secured indebtedness, the holders of that indebtedness would be entitled to share with the holders of the 101/4% senior notes and the holders of other claims against us with respect to our other assets. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $225.0 million in secured indebtedness outstanding under our revolving credit facility, excluding letters of credit. A subsidiary guarantee could be voided if it constitutes a fraudulent transfer under U.S. bankruptcy or similar state laws, which would prevent the holders of our 101/4% senior notes from relying on the subsidiary to satisfy our payment obligations under the 101/4% senior notes. Initially, there will be no subsidiary guarantees of the 101/4% senior notes, but in the future such guarantees may occur. Federal and state statutes allow courts, under specific circumstances, to void subsidiary guarantees, or require that claims under the subsidiary guarantee be subordinated to all other debts of the subsidiary guarantor, and to require creditors such as the noteholders to return payments received from subsidiary guarantors. Under federal bankruptcy law and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer laws, a subsidiary guarantee could be voided or claims in respect of a subsidiary guarantee could be subordinated to all other debts of that subsidiary guarantor if, for example, the subsidiary guarantor, at the time it issued its subsidiary guarantee: • was insolvent or rendered insolvent by making the subsidiary guarantee; • was engaged in a business or transaction for which the subsidiary guarantor’s remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or • intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay them as they mature. A guarantee may also be voided, without regard to the above factors, if a court found that the guarantor entered into the guarantee with the actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud any present or future creditor or received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair compensation for the subsidiary guarantee. A court would likely find that a guarantor did not receive reasonably equivalent value or fair compensation for its guarantee if the guarantor did not substantially benefit directly or indirectly from the issuance of the guarantees. The measures of insolvency for purposes of these fraudulent transfer laws will vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer has occurred. Generally, a subsidiary guarantor would be considered insolvent if: • the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair saleable value of all of its assets; • the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or • it could not pay its debts as they become due. To the extent a court voids a subsidiary guarantee as a fraudulent transfer or holds the subsidiary guarantee unenforceable for any other reason, holders of 101/4% senior notes would cease to have any direct claim against the subsidiary guarantor. If a court were to take this action, the subsidiary guarantor’s assets would be applied first to satisfy the subsidiary guarantor’s liabilities, if any, before any portion of its assets could be distributed to us to be applied to the payment of the 101/4% senior notes. We cannot assure you that a subsidiary guarantor’s remaining assets would be sufficient to satisfy the claims of the holders of 101/4% senior notes related to any voided portions of the subsidiary guarantees. (34) Table of Contents We may not have sufficient liquidity to repurchase the 101/4% senior notes upon a change of control. Upon the occurrence of a change of control, holders of 101/4% senior notes will have the right to require us to repurchase all or any part of such holder’s 101/4% senior notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the 101/4% senior notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of repurchase. We may not have sufficient funds at the time of the change of control to make the required repurchases, or restrictions under our revolving credit facility may not allow such repurchases. In addition, an event constituting a “change of control” (as defined in the indenture governing the 101/4% senior notes) could be an event of default under our revolving credit facility that would, if it should occur, permit the lenders to accelerate that debt and that, in turn, would cause an event of default under the indenture governing the 101/4% senior notes, each of which could have material adverse consequences for us and the holders of the 101/4% senior notes. The source of any funds for any repurchase required as a result of a change of control will be our available cash or cash generated from our business operations or other sources, including borrowings, sales of assets, sales of equity or funds provided by a new controlling entity. We cannot assure you, however, that sufficient funds would be available at the time of any change of control to make any required repurchases of the 101/4% senior notes tendered and to repay debt under our revolving credit facility. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any written comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that remain unresolved. 