ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We face a number of significant risks and uncertainties in connection with our operations. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the factors described below. While we describe each risk separately, some of these risks are interrelated and certain risks could trigger the applicability of other risks described below. Also, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently do not consider significant, could also potentially impair, and have a material adverse effect on, our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be vulnerable to certain sectors of the economy. A portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. If the economy deteriorated and depressed real estate values beyond a certain point, that collateral value of the portfolio and the revenue stream from those loans could come under stress and possibly require additional provision to the allowance for loan losses. Our ability to dispose of foreclosed real estate at prices above the respective carrying values could also be impinged, causing additional losses. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the industry in which we operate. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than twelve months. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institution industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • We may expect to face increased regulation of our industry, including as a result of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA). Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. 13 Table of Contents • Market developments and the resulting economic pressure on consumers may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause increases in delinquencies and default rates, which, among other effects, could affect our charge-offs and provision for loan losses. • Competition in the industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. • The current market disruptions make valuation even more difficult and subjective, and our ability to measure the fair value of our assets could be adversely affected. If we determine that a significant portion of our assets have values that are significantly below their recorded carrying value, we could recognize a material charge to earnings in the quarter during which such determination was made, our capital ratios would be adversely affected and a rating agency might downgrade our credit rating or put us on credit watch. There can be no assurance that the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 will help stabilize the U.S. Financial System. On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA) was signed into law in response to the current crisis in the financial sector. The U.S. Department of the Treasury and banking regulators implemented a number of programs under this legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. We are subject to a risk of rapid and significant changes in market interest rates. Our assets and liabilities are primarily monetary in nature, and as a result, we are subject to significant risks tied to changes in interest rates. Our ability to operate profitably is largely dependent upon net interest income. In 2010, net interest income made up 55% of our revenue. Unexpected movement in interest rates markedly changing the slope of the current yield curve could cause our net interest margins to decrease, subsequently decreasing net interest income. In addition, such changes could adversely affect the valuation of our assets and liabilities. At present our one-year interest rate sensitivity position is liability sensitive, such that a gradual increase in interest rates during the next twelve months should have a significant impact on net interest income during that period. However, as with most financial institutions, our results of operations are affected by changes in interest rates and our ability to manage this risk. The difference between interest rates charged on interest-earning assets and interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities may be affected by changes in market interest rates, changes in relationships between interest rate indices, and/or changes in the relationships between long-term and short-term market interest rates. A change in this difference might result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income, or a decrease in our interest rate spread. 14 Table of Contents Certain changes in interest rates, inflation, deflation, or the financial markets could affect demand for our products and our ability to deliver products efficiently. Loan originations, and potentially loan revenues, could be adversely impacted by sharply rising interest rates. Conversely, sharply falling rates could increase prepayments within our securities portfolio lowering interest earnings from those investments. An underperforming stock market could reduce brokerage transactions, therefore reducing investment brokerage revenues; in addition, wealth management fees associated with managed securities portfolios could also be adversely affected. An unanticipated increase in inflation could cause our operating costs related to salaries & benefits, technology, and supplies to increase at a faster pace than revenues. The fair market value of our securities portfolio and the investment income from these securities also fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. Changes in the policies of monetary authorities and other government action could adversely affect our profitability. The results of operations are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve Board include open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate or the federal funds rate on bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, particularly in light of the continuing threat of terrorist attacks and the current military operations in the Middle East, we cannot predict possible future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, loan demand on our business and earnings. Furthermore, the actions of the United States government and other governments in responding to such terrorist attacks or the military operations in the Middle East may result in currency fluctuations, exchange controls, market disruption and other adverse effects. Natural disasters could affect our ability to operate. Our market areas are susceptible to hurricanes. Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, can disrupt our operations, result in damage to properties and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage caused by future hurricanes will affect our operations or the economies in our market areas, but such weather events could cause a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing the loans and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. Greater loan losses than expected may adversely affect our earnings. We, as lenders, are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans in accordance with their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our credit risk with respect to our real estate and construction loan portfolio will relate principally to the creditworthiness of corporations and the value of the real estate serving as security for the repayment of loans. Our credit risk with respect to our commercial and consumer loan portfolio will relate principally to the general creditworthiness of businesses and individuals within our local markets. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for estimated loan losses based on a number of factors. We believe that our current allowance for loan losses is adequate. However, if our assumptions or judgments prove to be incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses. We may have to increase our allowance in the future in response to the request of one of our primary banking regulators, to adjust for changing conditions and assumptions, or as a result of any deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolio. The actual amount of future provisions for loan losses cannot be determined at this time and may vary from the amounts of past provisions. 15 Table of Contents The projected benefit obligations of our pension plan exceed the fair value of the Plan’s assets. Investments in the portfolio of our pension plan may not provide adequate returns to fully fund benefits as they come due, thus causing higher annual plan expenses and requiring additional contributions by us. We may need to rely on the financial markets to provide needed capital. Our stock is listed and traded on the NASDAQ Global Select. Although we anticipate that our capital resources will be adequate for the foreseeable future to meet our capital requirements, at times we may depend on the liquidity of the NASDAQ market to raise equity capital. If the market should fail to operate, or if conditions in the capital markets are adverse, we may be constrained in raising capital. We maintain a consistent analyst following; therefore, downgrades in our prospects by an analyst(s) may cause our stock price to fall and significantly limit our ability to access the markets for additional capital requirements. Should these risks materialize, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth may be limited. Sales of a significant number of shares of our Common Stock in the public markets, or the perception of such sales, could depress the market price of our Common Stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock in the public markets and the availability of those shares for sale could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. In addition, future issuances of equity securities, including pursuant to outstanding options, could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders, including you, and could cause the market price of our Common Stock to decline. We may issue such additional equity or convertible securities to raise additional capital. The issuance of any additional shares of common or preferred stock could be substantially dilutive to shareholders of our Common Stock. Moreover, to the extent that we issue restricted stock units, phantom shares, stock appreciation rights, options or warrants to purchase our Common Stock in the future and those stock appreciation rights, options or warrants are exercised or as the restricted stock units vest, our shareholders may experience further dilution. Holders of our shares of Common Stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our shareholders. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our Common Stock would have on the market price of our Common Stock. We may invest or spend the proceeds in stock offerings in ways with which you may not agree and in ways that may not earn a profit. We intend to use the proceeds of offerings for general corporate purposes, including for possible acquisition opportunities that may become available or to establish de novo branches. There can be no assurances that suitable acquisition opportunities may become available, or that we will be able to successfully complete any such acquisitions. We may use the proceeds only to focus on sustaining our organic, or internal, growth, or for other purposes. In addition, we may choose to use all or a portion of the proceeds to support our capital. We retain broad discretion over the use of the proceeds from this offering and may use them for purposes other than those contemplated at the time of this offering. You may not agree with the ways we decide to use these proceeds, and our use of the proceeds may not yield any profits. We engage in acquisitions of other businesses from time to time, including FDIC-assisted acquisitions. These acquisitions may not produce revenue or earnings enhancements or cost savings at levels or within timeframes originally anticipated and may result in unforeseen integration difficulties. On occasion, we will engage in acquisitions of other businesses, such as the proposed acquisition of Whitney Holding Corporation announced on December 22, 2010. Difficulty in integrating an acquired business or company may cause us not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, or other anticipated benefits from any acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition (run-off), loss of key employees, disruption of our business or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. We are likely to need to make additional investment in equipment and personnel to manage higher asset levels and loan balances as a result of any significant acquisition, which may adversely impact our earnings. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected. 16 Table of Contents In evaluating potential acquisition opportunities we may seek to acquire failed banks through FDIC-assisted transactions. While the FDIC may, in such transactions, provide assistance to mitigate certain risks, such as sharing in exposure to loan losses, and providing indemnification against certain liabilities, of the failed institution, we may not be able to accurately estimate our potential exposure to loan losses and other potential liabilities, or the difficulty of integration, in acquiring such institution. Depending on the condition of any institution that we may acquire, any acquisition may, at least in the near term, adversely affect our capital earnings and, if not successfully integrated following the acquisition, may continue to have such effects. We may fail to realize the anticipated cost savings and other financial benefits of the Hancock/Whitney merger on the anticipated schedule, if at all. We may face significant challenges in integrating Whitney Holding Corporation operations in our operations in a timely and efficient manner and in retaining Whitney personnel. Currently, each company operates as an independent public company. Achieving the anticipated cost savings and financial benefits of the merger will depend on part on whether we integrate Whitney’s businesses in an efficient and effective manner. We may not be able to accomplish this integration process smoothly or successfully. In addition, the integration of certain operations following the merger will require the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily distract management’s attention from the day-to-day business of the combined company. Any inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated cost savings and financial benefits of the merger, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on the business and results of operations of the combined company, which may affect the market price of Hancock common stock. Our growth and financial performance may be negatively impacted if we are unable to successfully execute our growth plans. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in continuing our organic, or internal, growth, which depends upon economic conditions, our ability to identify appropriate markets for expansion, our ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, our ability to fund growth at a reasonable cost, sufficient capital to support our growth initiatives, competitive factors, banking laws, and other factors. We may seek to supplement our internal growth through acquisitions. We cannot predict the number, size or timing of acquisitions, or whether any such acquisition will occur at all. Our acquisition efforts have traditionally focused on targeted banking or insurance entities in markets in which we currently operate and markets in which we believe we can compete effectively. However, as consolidation of the financial services industry continues, the competition for suitable acquisition candidates may increase. We may compete with other financial services companies for acquisition opportunities, and many of these competitors have greater financial resources than we do and may be able to pay more for an acquisition than we are able or willing to pay. We also may need additional debt or equity financing in the future to fund acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing or, if available, it may not be in amounts and on terms acceptable to us. If we are unable to locate suitable acquisition candidates willing to sell on terms acceptable to us, or we are otherwise unable to obtain additional debt or equity financing necessary for us to continue making acquisitions, we would be required to find other methods to grow our business and we may not grow at the same rate we have in the past, or at all. 17 Table of Contents We must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire a bank or bank holding company. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on the competition, financial condition, and future prospects. The regulators also review current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management and its record of compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served (including the acquiring institution’s record of compliance under the Community Reinvestment Act) and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. We cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. We may also be required to sell banks or branches as a condition to receiving regulatory approval, which condition may not be acceptable to us or, if acceptable to us, may reduce the benefit of any acquisition. In addition to the acquisition of existing financial institutions, as opportunities arise we plan to continue de novo branching as a part of our internal growth strategy and possibly entry into new markets through de novo branching. De novo branching and any acquisition carries with it numerous risks, including the following: • the inability to obtain all required regulatory approvals; • significant costs and anticipated operating losses associated with establishing a de novo branch or a new bank; • the inability to secure the services of qualified senior management; • the local market may not accept the services of a new bank owned and managed by a bank holding company headquartered outside of the market area of the new bank; • economic downturns in the new market; • the inability to obtain attractive locations within a new market at a reasonable cost; and • the additional strain on management resources and internal systems and controls. We have experienced to some extent many of these risks with our de novo branching to date. We are subject to regulation by various Federal and State entities. We are subject to the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Mississippi Department of Banking and Consumer Finance, the Louisiana Office of Financial Institutions, the Florida Office of Financial Regulation, the Alabama Banking Department and the Mississippi Department of Insurance. New regulations issued by these agencies may adversely affect our ability to carry on our business activities. We are subject to various Federal and State laws and certain changes in these laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations. Noncompliance with certain of these regulations may impact our business plans, including ability to branch, offer certain products, or execute existing or planned business strategies. We are also subject to the accounting rules and regulations of the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Changes in accounting rules could adversely affect the reported financial statements or our results of operations and may also require extraordinary efforts or additional costs to implement. Any of these laws or regulations may be modified or changed from time to time, and we cannot be assured that such modifications or changes will not adversely affect us. We are subject to industry competition which may have an impact upon our success. Our profitability depends on our ability to compete successfully. We operate in a highly competitive financial services environment. Certain competitors are larger and may have more resources than we do. We face competition in our regional market areas from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial intermediaries that offer similar services. Some of our nonbank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us or the Bank and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. 18 Table of Contents Another competitive factor is that the financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to use technology competitively to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and create additional efficiencies in our operations. The price of our Common Stock is volatile and may decline. The trading price of our Common Stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other financial institutions; • failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • actions by institutional shareholders; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; • proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; • anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; or • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. We may issue debt and equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, any of which may be senior to our Common Stock as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of our Common Stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by entering into debt or debt-like financing that is unsecured or secured by all or up to all of our assets, or by issuing additional debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of secured or unsecured commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior notes, subordinated notes, preferred stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities. In the event of our liquidation, our lenders and holders of our debt and preferred securities would receive a distribution of our available assets before distributions to the holders of our Common Stock. Because our decision to incur debt and issue securities in our future offerings will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings and debt financings. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future. 19 Table of Contents Our results of operations depend upon the results of operations of our subsidiaries. We are a bank holding company that conducts substantially all of our operations through our subsidiary Banks. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments on our Common Stock will depend primarily upon the receipt of dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries. The ability of the Banks to pay dividends or make other payments to us is limited by their obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general regulatory restrictions on their dividends. If these requirements are not satisfied, we will be unable to pay dividends on our Common Stock. Cash available to pay dividends to our shareholders is derived primarily, if not entirely, from dividends paid to us from the Banks. The ability of our subsidiary banks to pay dividends to us as well as our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders is limited by regulatory and legal restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital. We may also decide to limit the payment of dividends even when we have the legal ability to pay them in order to retain earnings for use in our business. There can be no assurance of whether or when we may pay dividends in the future. We and/or the holders of our securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable rating actions from rating agencies. Our ability to access the capital markets is important to our overall funding profile. This access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to us, certain of our affiliates and particular classes of securities that we and our affiliates issue. The interest rates that we pay on our securities are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that we, our affiliates and/or our securities receive from recognized rating agencies. A downgrade to us, our affiliates or our securities could create obligations or liabilities to us under the terms of our outstanding securities that could increase our costs or otherwise have a negative effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, a downgrade of the credit rating of any particular security issued by us or our affiliates could negatively affect the ability of the holders of that security to sell the securities and the prices at which any such securities may be sold. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended articles of incorporation and bylaws, Mississippi law, and our Shareholder Rights Plan could make a third party acquisition of us difficult and may adversely affect share value. Our amended articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us (even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders) and for holders of our securities to receive any related takeover premium for their securities. In addition, under our Shareholder Rights Plan, “rights” are issued to all Hancock common shareholders which, if activated upon an attempted unfriendly acquisition, would allow our shareholders to buy our common stock at a reduced price, thereby minimizing the risk of any potential hostile takeover. We are also subject to certain provisions of state and federal law and our articles of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity, or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring 10% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a bank holding company, including our shares. Banking agencies review the acquisition to determine if it will result in a change of control. The banking agencies have 60 days to act on the notice, and take into account several factors, including the resources of the acquirer and the antitrust effects of the acquisition. There also are Mississippi statutory provisions and provisions in our articles of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. As a result, these statutory provisions and provisions in our articles of incorporation could result in our being less attractive to a potential acquirer and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 20 Table of Contents You may not receive dividends on the common stock. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically and routinely declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. Securities issued by us, including our common stock, are not FDIC insured. Securities issued by us, including our common stock, are not savings or deposit accounts or other obligations of any bank and are not insured by the FDIC, the Bank Insurance Fund, or any other governmental agency or instrumentality, or any private insurer, and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. Governmental responses to recent market disruptions may be inadequate and may have unintended consequences. In response to recent market disruptions, legislators and financial regulators have taken a number of steps to stabilize the financial markets. These steps include the enactment and partial implementation of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the provision of other direct and indirect assistance to financial institutions, assistance by the banking authorities in arranging acquisitions of weakened banks and broker-dealers, implementation of programs by the Federal Reserve Board to provide liquidity to the commercial paper markets and expansion of deposit insurance coverage. The new administration and Congress have pursued additional initiatives in an effort to stimulate the economy and stabilize the financial markets, including the enactment of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, and have altered the terms of some previously announced policies. More recently, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which provides for sweeping changes to financial sector regulation and oversight, including new substantive authorities and practices in government regulation and supervision, and a restructuring of the regulatory system, including the creation of new federal agencies, offices, and councils. See “Recent Developments” under “SUPERVISION AND REGULATION” above. The overall effects of these and other legislative and regulatory efforts on the financial markets are uncertain. Should these or other legislative or regulatory initiatives fail to stabilize the financial markets, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act will likely result in significant changes to the banking industry as a whole which, depending on how its provisions are implemented by the agencies, could adversely affect the Company’s business. In addition, the Company competes with a number of financial services companies that are not subject to the same degree of regulatory oversight to which the Company is subject. The impact of the existing regulatory framework and any future changes to it could negatively affect the Company’s ability to compete with these institutions, which could have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and prospects. The FDIC has increased insurance premiums to rebuild and maintain the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund. Based on recent events and the state of the economy, in December 2008 the FDIC adopted a restoration plan designed to replenish the Deposit Insurance Fund over a period of five years and to increase the deposit insurance reserve ratio, which had decreased to 1.01% of insured deposits on June 30, 2008, to the statutory minimum of 1.15% of insured deposits by December 31, 2013. In order to implement the restoration plan, the FDIC changed both its risk-based assessment system and its base assessment rates. For the first quarter of 2009 only, the FDIC increased all FDIC deposit assessment rates by 7 basis points. These new rates ranged from between 12 and 14 basis points for Risk Category I institutions to 50 basis points for Risk Category IV institutions. Beginning April 1, 2009, the base assessment rates ranged from 12 to 45 basis points, with the initial assessment rates subject to adjustments which could increase or decrease the total base assessment rates. The adjustments included (1) a decrease for long-term unsecured debt, including most senior and subordinated debt and, for small institutions, a portion of Tier 1 capital; (2) an increase for secured liabilities above a threshold amount; and (3) for non-Risk Category I institutions, an increase for brokered deposits above a threshold amount. 21 Table of Contents On May 22, 2009, the FDIC imposed a special deposit insurance fund assessment of 5.0 basis points on all insured institutions, to be calculated based on the difference between an institution’s total assets and its Tier 1 capital and collected on September 30, 2009. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC required banks to prepay over three years of estimated federal deposit insurance premiums. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) changed the method of calculation for FDIC insurance assessments. Under the previous system, the assessment base was domestic deposits minus a few allowable exclusions, such as pass-through reserve balances. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, assessments are to be calculated based on the depository institution’s average consolidated total assets, less its average amount of tangible equity. On November 9, 2010, the FDIC published proposed regulations seeking to implement these changes. In addition to providing for the required change in assessment base, the FDIC has proposed to modify or eliminate the assessment adjustments based on unsecured debt, secured liabilities, and brokered deposits; to add a new adjustment for holding unsecured debt issued by another insured depository institution; and to lower the initial base assessment rate schedule in order to collect approximately the same amount of revenue under the new base as under the old base, among other changes. These proposed changes may or may not ultimately be included in the FDIC’s final regulations implementing this provision of the Dodd-Frank Act. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 