ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any of the following risks could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition and an investment in our stock. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. There can be no assurance that recent legislation and administrative actions will improve the long term stability of the U.S. financial system. Numerous actions by the U.S. Congress, the Federal Reserve, the Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and other governmental authorities have been taken to address the liquidity and credit crisis that commenced in 2007. These measures include various laws regulations and other actions, including, but not limited to, those described under “Supervision and Regulation.” We cannot predict the actual effects of the Dodd-Frank Act and the numerous rules already thereunder that have been adopted, proposed or which are required to be adopted but that have not been proposed or adopted yet, or various governmental, regulatory, and fiscal and monetary initiatives, studies and rulemakings which have been and may be enacted, adopted or proposed will have on the financial markets, our competitors, counterparties and customers and on us. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to continue to stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity or a worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading prices of our common stock. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. We are exposed to downturns in the U.S. economy, although the local markets in which we operate in East Alabama have not been as adversely affected as various other areas of the country. Although declines in the housing market appear to be stabilizing to improving, the declines in home prices and high levels of foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment since 2007, have negatively affected the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by various financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. This market turmoil and the tightening of available credit have led to increased levels of commercial and consumer delinquencies, reduced consumer confidence, increased market volatility and reductions in business activity, although signs of stabilization and some recovery are beginning to evolve. Failures have increased among financial services companies, and various companies, weakened by market conditions, have merged with other institutions. We believe the following, among other things, may affect us in 2014: • We expect to face further increased regulation of our industry as a result of Dodd-Frank Act rulemaking and other initiatives by the U.S. government and its regulatory agencies, including the CFPB. Compliance with such regulations may increase our costs, reduce our profitability, and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities and serve customers’ needs. • Market developments, including employment and price levels, as well as personal income and after tax income in light of changes in federal taxes in January 2013, may affect consumer confidence levels from time to time in different directions, and may cause adverse changes in payment behaviors and payment rates, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could affect our charge-offs and provisions for credit losses. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers and those we do business with, and to estimate the values of our assets and collateral for loans may be impaired if the models and approaches we use become less predictive of future behaviors, valuations, assumptions or estimates. The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure or estimate the value of certain assets requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans or the value of assets. • Our ability to borrow from and engage in other business with other financial institutions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including, among other things, deteriorating investor expectations and changes in regulations. • We have invested previously in trust preferred securities issued by various financial institutions, and purchased loan participations from other financial institutions. At year end 2013, we owned approximately $1.1 million in FHLB-Atlanta stock and approximately $0.4 million of stock in a correspondent bank. We sold our remaining investments in trust preferred securities in the fourth quarter of 2013 and at December 31, 2013 had only approximately $1.4 million of loan participations purchased from others. We may 20 Table of Contents purchase loans and loan participations or similar interests in the future, and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected in the event the originating institutions or their borrowers experience financial difficulties or fail. • Failures of other depository institutions in our markets and increasing consolidation of financial services companies as a result of current market conditions could increase our deposits and assets and necessitate additional capital, and could have unexpected adverse effects upon us and our business. • The Volcker Rule, including final regulations adopted on December 10, 2013, may affect us adversely by reducing securities inventories at those institutions where we buy and sell securities for our portfolio and increasing the bid-ask spreads on securities we purchase or sell. These rules may decrease the range of permissible investments, such as collateral loan obligations (“CLOs”), which we could use to diversify our assets and for asset/liability management. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine investment and banking transactions, as well as the quality and values of our investments in equity securities and obligations of other financial institutions, could be adversely affected by the actions, financial condition, and profitability of such other financial institutions with which we deal, including, without limitation, the FHLB and our correspondent banks. At December 31, 2013, the amortized cost of the Bank’s investments in FHLB and our correspondent bank’s common stock was approximately $1.5 million. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of shared credits, trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems, losses of depositor, creditor or counterparty confidence in certain institutions and could lead to losses or defaults by other institutions, and in some cases, failure of such institutions. Any losses, defaults by, or failures of, the institutions we do business with could adversely affect our holdings of the debt of and equity in, such other institutions, our participation interests in loans originated by other institutions, and our business, including our liquidity, financial condition and earnings. Nonperforming and similar assets take significant time to resolve and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. At December 31, 2013, our nonaccrual loans totaled $4.3 million, or 1.11% of total loans. In addition, we had approximately $3.9 million of other real estate owned at December 31, 2013. Our non-performing assets may adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on nonaccrual loans or OREO and these assets require higher loan administration and other costs, thereby adversely affecting our income. Decreases in the value of these assets, or the underlying collateral, or in the related borrowers’ performance or financial condition, whether or not due to economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires commitments of time from management, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. There can be no assurance that we will not experience increases in nonperforming loans in the future. Our allowance for loan losses may prove inadequate or we may be negatively affected by credit risk exposures. Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers. We periodically review our allowance for loan losses for adequacy considering economic conditions and trends, collateral values and credit quality indicators, including past charge-off experience and levels of past due loans and nonperforming assets. We cannot be certain that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate over time to cover credit losses in our portfolio because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy, market conditions or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets, and changes in borrower behaviors. If the credit quality of our customer base materially decreases, if the risk profile of a market, industry or group of customers changes materially or weaknesses in the real estate markets persist or worsen, borrower payment behaviors change, or if our allowance for loan losses is not adequate, our business, financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Weaknesses in the real estate markets, including the secondary market for residential mortgage loans, may continue to adversely affect us. The effects of the CFPB changes to mortgage rules effective at the beginning of 2014, the effects of CFPB mortgage servicing rules that became effective in January 2014, enforcement actions, reviews and settlements, proposed changes in the securitization rules under the Dodd-Frank Act, and the Basel III Rules, combined with the continuing conservatorships of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the levels of risky assets at the FHA and its relatively low reserves for losses, current 21 Table of Contents levels of home sales, and the risks of interest rates increasing from historically low levels, could have serious adverse effects on the mortgage markets and our mortgage operations. Such effects could include, among other things, price reductions in single family home values, further adversely affecting the liquidity and value of collateral securing commercial loans for residential acquisition, construction and development, as well as residential mortgage loans that we hold, mortgage loan originations and gains on sale of mortgage loans. In March 2014, Senate Banking Committee leaders announced bipartisan legislation to substantially restructure Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and their manner of operating. It is unknown whether this legislation will be adopted, and if adopted, what its affects may be. Declining real estate prices and higher interest rates charged on mortgage loans have caused higher delinquencies and losses on certain mortgage loans, generally, particularly second lien mortgages and home equity lines of credit. Significant ongoing disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for and liquidity of most mortgage loans other than conforming Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and FHA loans. Declines in real estate values, low home sales volumes, financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses or reduced incomes, interest rate increases, generally, including resets on adjustable rate mortgage loans, maturities of second lien mortgages or other factors could have further adverse effects on borrowers and changes in mortgage loan rules, could result in fewer mortgage originations, higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, as well as increased regulation capital requirement which would adversely affect our financial condition, including capital and liquidity, and our results of operations. In the event our allowance for loan losses is insufficient to cover such losses, if any, our earnings, capital and liquidity could be adversely affected. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the largest purchasers of residential mortgage loans, remain in federal conservatorship and the timing and effects of their resolution cannot be predicted. Weaknesses in real estate markets may adversely affect the length of time and costs required to manage and dispose of, and the values realized from the sale of our OREO. New CFPB residential mortgage origination rules may change our business and costs. The CFPB’s final regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act requirement that lenders determine whether a consumer has the ability to repay a mortgage loan became effective in January 2014. These encourage the origination of residential mortgages that meet the new requirements for “qualified mortgages.” These may adversely affect our product offerings, reduce our mortgage origination volume and increase our costs to originate residential mortgage loans, which could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition, especially where residential mortgage origination volume is declining, generally. We may be contractually obligated to repurchase mortgage loans we sold to third parties on terms unfavorable to us. As a routine part of its business, the Company originates mortgage loans that it subsequently sells in the secondary market, including to governmental agencies and government sponsored entities, such as Fannie Mae. In connection with the sale of these loans, the Company makes customary representations and warranties, the breach of which could result in the Company being required to repurchase the loan or loans. Furthermore, the amount paid may be greater than the fair value of the loan or loans at the time of the repurchase. Requests for mortgage loan repurchases have increased generally in recent years, although we have received no such requests in 2013. Such requests, if these increased, could require the establishment of reserves for possible repurchases and adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. Servicing requirements may change and require us to incur additional costs and risks. On February 9, 2012, the DOJ and various state attorneys general announced a $25 billion agreement with the nation’s five largest mortgage servicers to address mortgage loan servicing and foreclosure abuses. While we were not a party to the settlement or a subject of the joint governmental investigation, we cannot be assured that the settlement may ultimately affect mortgage servicing standards generally, which could increase compliance and other costs of servicing residential mortgage loans. The CFPB continues to bring enforcement actions and develop proposals and rules that could increase the costs of providing mortgage servicing. This could reduce our income from servicing these types of loans and make it more difficult and costly to timely realize the value of collateral securing such loans upon a borrower default. Changes in residential servicing regulations may have adverse effects on our resales and servicing of residential mortgage loans. The CFPB adopted new residential mortgage servicing standards in January 2014 that add additional servicing requirements and that will increase our required servicer activities and delay foreclosures, among other things. These may adversely affect our costs to service residential mortgage loans, and together with the Basel III Rules, may decrease the returns on our MSRs. 22 Table of Contents Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac restructuring may adversely affect the mortgage markets and our sales of mortgages we originated Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac remain in conservatorship. Recently, bi-partisan legislation was introduced in the U.S. Senate to restructure Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to take them out of conservatorship and substantially change the way they conduct business in the future. Since these two entities dominate the residential mortgage markets, any changes could adversely affect our residential mortgage origination and servicing businesses and our results of operation and the returns on capital deployed in these businesses. Our concentration of commercial real estate loans could result in further increased loan losses, and adversely affect our business, earnings, and financial condition. Commercial real estate, or CRE, is cyclical and poses risks of possible loss due to concentration levels and risks of the assets being financed, which include loans for the acquisition and development of land and residential construction. We had 54.7 % of our portfolio in CRE loans, as defined by the Federal Reserve, at year-end 2013 compared to 55.1 % at year-end 2012. The banking regulators continue to give CRE lending greater scrutiny, and require banks with higher levels of CRE loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as higher levels of allowances for possible losses and capital levels as a result of CRE lending growth and exposures. Continued low demand for CRE, reduced availability of, and higher costs for, CRE lending could adversely affect our CRE loans and sales of our OREO, and therefore our earnings and financial condition, including our capital and liquidity. We have experienced high levels of market volatility. The capital and credit markets have experienced volatility and disruption since 2007. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial condition or performance. Although market disruptions and volatility appear more stable currently, there can be no assurance that we will not experience future market conditions and volatility, which may have material adverse effects on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition (including liquidity) and results of operations. Our ability to realize our deferred tax assets may be reduced in the future if our estimates of future taxable income from our operations and tax planning strategies do not support this amount, and the amount of net operating loss carry-forwards realizable for income tax purposes may be reduced under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code by sales of our capital securities. We are allowed to carry-back losses for five years for Federal income tax purposes as otherwise permitted generally under the Worker, Homeownership, and Business Assistance Act of 2009 which was signed into law on November 6, 2009. As of December 31, 2013, we had net deferred tax assets of $5.4 million. These and future deferred tax assets may be further reduced in the future if our estimates of future taxable income from our operations and tax planning strategies do not support the amount of the deferred tax asset. The amount of net operating loss carry-forwards realizable for income tax purposes potentially could be further reduced under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code by a significant offering and/or other sales of our capital securities. The Basel III Rules reduce the regulatory capital benefits of deferred tax assets, also. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in highly competitive markets. The East Alabama banking markets in which we do business are highly competitive and our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in these markets. We compete for loans, deposits and other financial services in our markets with other local, regional and national commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, mortgage lenders, and securities and insurance brokerage firms. Many of our competitors offer products and services different from us, and have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence than we do, which benefits them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we are able to and have broader and more diverse customer and geographic bases to draw upon. The Dodd-Frank Act allows others to branch into our markets more easily from other states. Failures of other banks with offices in our markets could also lead to the entrance of new, stronger competitors in our markets. 23 Table of Contents Our success depends on local economic conditions where we operate. Our success depends on the general economic conditions in the geographic markets we serve in Alabama. The local economic conditions in our markets have a significant effect on our commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Adverse changes in the economic conditions of the Southeastern United States in general, or in one or more of our local markets could negatively affect our results of operations and our profitability. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates, inflation and competitive pressures. The Federal Reserve has taken aggressive actions to reduce interest rates generally, and the federal government continues large deficit spending. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures, and potential inflation resulting from government deficit spending and monetary policies. Traditionally, we have obtained funds principally through local deposits and borrowings from other institutional lenders. Generally, we believe local deposits are a cheaper and more stable source of funds than borrowings because interest rates paid for local deposits are typically lower than interest rates charged for borrowings from other institutional lenders. Increases in interest rates could also change consumers to shift their funds to more interest bearing instruments and to increase the competition for funds. The effects of the tapering of Federal Reserve bond purchases under QE are unpredictable and while the Federal Reserve has indicated it will seek to maintain low interest rates, interest rates could increase more than anticipated. See “Fiscal and Monetary Policy”. The Federal Reserve has acknowledged the possibility of further recession and deflation. Should this occur, the financial services industry and our business could be adversely affected. The recovery of the U.S. economy continues to progress slowly; national unemployment remains high at 6.7% in February 2014, and despite recent improvements, the housing market remains an important downside risk, subject to the risks of increases in interest rates and declining origination volumes. The restructuring of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which dominate the residential mortgage markets, could adversely affect housing and the mortgage markets. Given the concerns about the U.S. economy and the costs of complying with new healthcare laws, U.S. employers continue to approach hiring with caution, and as a result unemployment may continue at high levels. Monetary and fiscal policy measures, including federal income tax changes at the beginning of 2013, may adversely affect the recovery, unemployment levels, and long-term stability in the financial markets. Any shift from fiscal stimulus efforts to fiscal restraint, and higher income and other taxes and government- imposed increased costs, such as those and under the Affordable Care Act, could adversely affect disposable income, the economy, and cause instability in the financial markets. Various governments in Europe have announced budget reductions and/or austerity measures as a means to limit fiscal budget deficits as a result of the economic crisis. Additionally, many state and local governments in the U.S. have also implemented budget reductions. Such economic factors could affect us in a variety of substantial and unpredictable ways, as well as affect our borrowers’ ability and willingness to meet their repayment obligations. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition, liquidity and earnings. Our profitability and liquidity may be affected by changes in interest rates and interest rate levels, the shape of the yield curve and economic conditions. Our profitability depends upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on assets, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change where the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest earned on loans and investments. Interest rates, and consequently our results of operations, are affected by general economic conditions (domestic and foreign) and fiscal and monetary policies, as well as expectations of these rates and policies and the shape of the yield curve. Decreases in interest rates generally increase the market values of fixed-rate, interest-bearing investments and loans held, and increase the values of loan sales and mortgage loan activities. However, the production of mortgages and other loans and the value of collateral securing our loans, are dependent on demand within the markets we serve, as well as interest rates. While stabilizing to increasing, the levels of sales, as well as the values of real estate in our markets generally remain below the levels of several years ago. Declining interest rates reflect efforts by the Federal Reserve to stimulate the economy, but such efforts may not be effective, and otherwise adversely affect our net interest margin and thus may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition, liquidity and earnings. Tapering of QE by the Federal Reserve, especially reductions in the Federal Reserve’s purchases of residential mortgage-backed securities, could increase mortgage rates and decrease origination volumes, which have been declining generally in the second half of 2013. 24 Table of Contents Increases in interest rates generally decrease the market values of fixed-rate, interest-bearing investments and loans held and the production of mortgage and other loans and the value of collateral securing our loans, and therefore may adversely affect our liquidity and earnings, to the extent not offset by potential increases in our net interest margin. Liquidity risks could affect operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the repayment or sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our funding sources include federal funds purchased securities sold under repurchase agreements, core and non-core deposits, and short- and long-term debt. We are also members of the FHLB and the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, where we can obtain advances collateralized with eligible assets. We maintain a portfolio of securities that can be used as a source of liquidity. There are other sources of liquidity available to the Company or the Bank should they be needed, including our ability to acquire additional non-core deposits. We may be able, depending upon market conditions, to issue and sell debt securities, and preferred or common securities in public or private transactions. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities or on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Our ability to borrow or obtain funding, if needed, could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as further disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets, as well as the financial condition, liquidity and profitability of the financial institutions we deal with. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and adversely affect our earnings. We and our subsidiaries are regulated by several regulators, including the Federal Reserve, the Alabama Superintendent, the SEC and the FDIC. Our success is affected by state and federal regulations affecting banks and bank holding companies, and the securities markets, and our costs of compliance could adversely affect our earnings. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors, not shareholders. The financial services industry also is subject to frequent legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes, and a large number of required Dodd-Frank Act rules have yet to be proposed or finalized, and the effects of all these cannot be predicted. Federal bank regulatory agencies and the Treasury, as well as the Congress and the President, are evaluating the regulation of banks, other financial services providers and the financial markets and such changes, if any, could require us to maintain more capital and liquidity, and restrict our activities, which could adversely affect our growth, profitability and financial condition. Our consumer finance products, including residential mortgage loans, are subject to CFPB regulations and evolving standards reflecting CFPB releases, rule-making and enforcement actions. Changes in accounting and tax rules applicable to banks could adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. FASB has proposed for comment significant changes to the manner in which banks’ allowance for loan losses would be calculated. We are subject to internal control reporting requirements that increase compliance costs and failure to comply timely could adversely affect our reputation and the value of our securities. We are required to comply with various corporate governance and financial reporting requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules and regulations adopted by the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and Nasdaq. In particular, we are required to report on internal controls as part of our annual report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We expect to continue to spend significant amounts of time and money on compliance with these rules. Our failure to comply with these internal control rules may materially adversely affect our reputation, ability to obtain the necessary certifications to financial statements, and the value of our securities. 25 Table of Contents We are required to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, and if we fail to maintain sufficient capital, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be adversely affected. We and the Bank must meet regulatory capital requirements and maintain sufficient liquidity, including liquidity at the Company, as well as the Bank. If we fail to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, including more rigorous requirements arising from our regulators’ implementation of Basel III, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to remain “well capitalized” and “well managed”, including meeting the Basel III capital conservation buffers, for bank regulatory purposes could affect customer confidence, our ability to grow, our costs of funds and FDIC insurance, our ability to raise brokered deposits, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and our ability to make acquisitions, and we would no longer meet the requirements for becoming a financial holding company. These could also affect our ability to use discretionary bonuses to attract and retain quality people. The Dodd-Frank Act restricts our future issuance of trust preferred securities and cumulative preferred securities as eligible Tier 1 risk-based capital for purposes of the regulatory capital guidelines for bank holding companies. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, banks and thrift holding companies with assets of less than $15 billion as of December 31, 2009 will be permitted to include trust preferred securities that were issued before May 19, 2010 as Tier 1 capital, only bank holding companies with assets of less than $500 million will be permitted to continue to issue trust preferred securities and have them count as Tier 1 capital. Accordingly, should we determine it is advisable, or should our regulators require us, based upon new capital or liquidity regulations or otherwise, to raise additional Tier 1 risk-based capital, we would not be able to issue additional trust preferred securities, and would instead have to issue preferred stock or common equity. To the extent we issue new equity, it could result in dilution to our shareholders. To the extent we issue preferred stock, dividends on the preferred stock, unlike distributions paid on trust preferred securities, would not be tax deductible, and the preferred stock would have a preference in liquidation and in dividends to our common stock. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or on favorable terms. We anticipate that our current capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future under currently effective rules. We may, however, need to raise additional capital to support our growth or currently unanticipated losses, or to meet the needs of our communities, resulting from failures or cutbacks by our competitors, and the Basel III Rules. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend, among other things, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are currently disrupted and limited by events outside our control, and on our financial performance. If we cannot raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be limited. Future acquisitions and expansion activities may disrupt our business, dilute shareholder value and adversely affect our operating results. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and expansion opportunities, including new branches and other offices. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately or profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other banks, branches, or businesses, as well as other geographic and product expansion activities, involve various risks including: • risks of unknown or contingent liabilities; • unanticipated costs and delays; • risks that acquired new businesses will not perform consistent with our growth and profitability expectations; • risks of entering new markets or product areas where we have limited experience; • risks that growth will strain our infrastructure, staff, internal controls and management, which may require additional personnel, time and expenditures; • exposure to potential asset quality issues with acquired institutions; • difficulties, expenses and delays of integrating the operations and personnel of acquired institutions; 26 Table of Contents • potential disruptions to our business; • possible loss of key employees and customers of acquired institutions; • potential short-term decreases in profitability; and • diversion of our management’s time and attention from our existing operations and business. Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us in the future. While we seek continued organic growth, we also may consider the acquisition of other businesses. We expect that other banking and financial companies, many of which have significantly greater resources, will compete with us to acquire financial services businesses. This competition could increase prices for potential acquisitions that we believe are attractive. Also, acquisitions are subject to various regulatory approvals. If we fail to receive the appropriate regulatory approvals, we will not be able to consummate an acquisition that we believe is in our best interests, and regulatory approvals could contain conditions that reduce the anticipated benefits of any transaction. Among other things, our regulators consider our capital, liquidity, profitability, regulatory compliance and levels of goodwill and intangibles when considering acquisition and expansion proposals. Any acquisition could be dilutive to our earnings and shareholders’ equity per share of our common stock. Technological changes affect our business, and we may have fewer resources than many competitors to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to serving clients better, the effective use of technology may increase efficiency and may enable financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in operations. We may need to make significant additional capital investments in technology in the future, and we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. We rely heavily on communications and information systems, including those provided by third-party service providers, to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption, or security breach of these systems could result in failures or disruptions which could affect our customers’ privacy and our customer relationships, generally. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption, “cyber-attack”, or security breaches, there is no assurance that these events will not occur and, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed without undue effects on our business, including loss of customers and added costs. In addition to the immediate costs of any failure, interruption or security breach, including those at our third-party service providers, these events could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Cyber attacks are increasing in general, and are a regulatory and business focus, as is vendor management for third parties who supply us with services, including information technology and customer products. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism or other external events could have significant effects on our business. Severe weather and natural disasters, including hurricanes, tornados, drought and floods, acts of war or terrorism or other external events could have a significant effect on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base; impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Our ability to continue to pay dividends to shareholders in the future is subject to profitability, capital, liquidity and regulatory requirements and these limitations may prevent us from paying dividends in the future. Cash available to pay dividends to our shareholders is derived primarily from dividends paid to the Company by the Bank. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends, as well as our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders, will continue to be subject to and limited by the results of operations of our subsidiaries and our need to maintain appropriate liquidity and capital at all levels of our business consistent with regulatory requirements and the needs of our businesses. See “Supervision and Regulation”. A limited trading market exists for our common shares, which could lead to price volatility. Your ability to sell or purchase common shares depends upon the existence of an active trading market for our common stock. Although our common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market, the volume of trades on any given day has been limited historically. As a result, you may be unable to sell or purchase shares of our common stock at the volume, price and time that you desire. Additionally, whether the purchase or sales prices of our common stock reflects a reasonable valuation of our common stock also is affected by an active trading market, and thus the price you receive for a thinly-traded stock such as common stock, may not reflect its true or intrinsic value. The limited trading market for our common stock may cause fluctuations in the market value of our common stock to be exaggerated, leading to price volatility in excess of that which would occur in a more active trading market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 