Item 1A. Risk Factors Our financial condition and results of operations have been adversely affected, and may continue to be adversely affected, by the U.S. and international financial market and economic conditions. We have been and continue to be impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and, to a lesser extent, abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, unemployment and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which the Company operates, all of which are beyond the Company’s control. Continued deterioration in any of these conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, and non-performing assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for the Company’s products and services. While there are indications that the U.S. economy is stabilizing, there remains significant uncertainty regarding the sustainability of the economic recovery, unemployment levels and the impact of the U.S. government’s unwinding of its extensive economic and market support. Recent market volatility may impact our business and the value of our common stock. Our business performance and the trading price of shares of our common stock may be affected by many factors affecting financial institutions, including the recent volatility in the credit, mortgage and housing markets, the markets for securities relating to mortgages or housing, and the value of debt and mortgage-backed and other securities that we hold in our investment portfolio. Government action and legislation may also impact us and the value of our common stock. Given the unprecedented nature of this volatility, we cannot predict what impact, if any, it will have on our business or share price and for these and other reasons our shares of common stock may trade at a price lower than that at which they were purchased. If we do not maintain net income growth, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our return on shareholders’ equity and other measures of profitability, which affect the market price of our common stock, depend in part on our continued growth and expansion. Our growth strategy has two principal components — internal growth and external growth. Our ability to generate internal growth is affected by the competitive factors described below as well as by the primarily rural characteristics and related demographic features of the markets we serve. Our ability to continue to identify and invest in suitable acquisition candidates on acceptable terms is an important component of our external growth strategy. In pursuing acquisition opportunities, we may be in competition with other companies having similar growth strategies. As a result, we may not be able to identify or acquire promising acquisition candidates on acceptable terms. Competition for these acquisitions could result in increased acquisition prices and a diminished pool of acquisition opportunities. An inability to find suitable acquisition candidates at reasonable prices could slow our growth rate and have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. Interest rate volatility may reduce our profitability. Our profitability depends to a large extent upon our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Net interest income can be affected significantly by changes in market interest rates. In particular, changes in relative interest rates may reduce our net interest income as the difference between interest income and interest expense decreases. As a result, we have adopted asset and liability management policies to minimize the potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on net interest income, primarily by altering the mix and maturity of loans, investments and funding sources. However, there can be no assurance that a change in interest rates will not negatively impact our results from operations or financial position. Since market interest rates may change by differing magnitudes and at different times, significant changes in interest rates over an extended period of time could reduce overall net interest income. An increase in interest rates could also have a negative impact on our results of operations by reducing the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations, which could not only result in increased loan defaults, foreclosures and write-offs, but also necessitate further increases to our allowance for loan losses. 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS If our allowance for loan losses is not adequate to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for probable loan losses based on a number of factors. Monthly, the Corporate Risk Management group reviews the assumptions, calculation methodology and balance of the allowance for loan losses with the board of directors for the bank subsidiary. On a quarterly basis, the Company’s Board of Directors, as well as the board of directors for the subsidiary bank, completes a similar review of the allowance for loan losses. If the assumptions are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover the losses we could experience, which would have an adverse effect on operating results, and may also cause us to increase the allowance for loan losses in the future. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provisions for credit losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. If additional amounts are provided to the allowance for loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our loans are concentrated in certain areas of Maine and adverse conditions in those markets could adversely affect our operations. We are exposed to real estate and economic factors throughout Maine, as virtually the entire loan portfolio is concentrated among borrowers in Maine, with higher concentrations of exposure in Cumberland, Hancock, Knox and Waldo counties. Further, because a substantial portion of the loan portfolio is secured by real estate in this area, the value of the associated collateral is also subject to regional real estate market conditions. Adverse economic, political or business developments or natural hazards may affect these areas and the ability of property owners in these areas to make payments of principal and interest on the underlying mortgages. If these regions experience adverse economic, political or business conditions, we would likely experience higher rates of loss and delinquency on these loans than if the loans were more geographically diverse. We experience strong competition within our markets, which may impact our profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is strong. In our market areas, we compete for loans, deposits and other financial products and services with local independent banks, thrift institutions, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally as well as nationally. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than those of our subsidiaries and may offer services that our subsidiaries do not or cannot provide. Our long-term success depends on the ability of our subsidiaries to compete successfully with other financial institutions in their service areas. Because we maintain a smaller staff and have fewer financial and other resources than larger institutions with which we compete, we may be limited in our ability to attract customers. If we are unable to attract and retain customers, we may be unable to achieve growth in the loan and core deposit portfolios, and our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted. Our banking business is highly regulated, and we may be adversely affected by changes in law and regulation. Bank holding companies and national banking associations operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision, regulation and examination by various federal regulatory agencies, as well as other governmental agencies in the states in which they operate. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters including changes in the ownership or control of banks and BHCs, maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution, permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments, permissible non-banking activities, the level of reserves against deposits and restrictions on dividend payments. The OCC possesses cease and desist powers to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulation, and the FRB possesses similar powers with respect to BHCs. These and other restrictions limit the manner in which we may conduct business and obtain financing. 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our business is affected not only by general economic conditions, but also by the economic, fiscal and monetary policies of the United States and its agencies and regulatory authorities, particularly the FRB. The economic and fiscal policies of various governmental entities and the monetary policies of the FRB may affect the interest rates our bank subsidiary must offer to attract deposits and the interest rates they must charge on loans, as well as the manner in which they offer deposits and make loans. These economic, fiscal and monetary policies have had, and are expected to continue to have, significant effects on the operating results of depository institutions generally, including our bank subsidiary. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act, which comprehensively reforms the regulation of financial institutions, products and services, was signed into law. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act grants the FRB increased supervisory authority and codifies the source of strength doctrine. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides for new capital standards that eliminate the treatment of trust preferred securities as Tier 1 capital, however existing trust preferred securities are grandfathered for banking entities with less than $15 billion of assets, such as the Company. The Dodd-Frank Act establishes the CFPB, as an independent bureau of the FRB. The CFPB has the authority to prescribe rules for all depository institutions governing the provision of consumer financial products and services, which may result in rules and regulations that reduce the profitability of such products and services or impose greater costs on us and our subsidiaries. The Bank will continue to be examined by the OCC for compliance with such rules. Further, the Dodd-Frank Act establishes a new standard for preemption of state consumer financial laws, which will may result the Bank having to comply with certain state laws that were considered preempted before the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently raises deposit insurance levels to $250,000, retroactive to January 1, 2008. Pursuant to modifications under the Dodd-Frank Act, deposit insurance assessments will be calculated based on an insured depository institution’s assets rather than its insured deposits and the minimum reserve ratio of the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund will be raised to 1.35%. The payment of interest on business demand deposit accounts is permitted by the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the FRB to regulate interchange fees for debit card transactions and establishes new minimum mortgage underwriting standards for residential mortgages. Because many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, it is difficult to forecast the impact that such rulemaking will have on us, our customers or the financial industry. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that affect deposit insurance assessments, the payment of interest on demand deposits and interchange fees could increase the costs associated with the Bank’s deposit-generating activities, as well as place limitations on the revenues that those deposits may generate. For example, the FRB has proposed rules governing debit card interchange fees that apply to institutions with greater than $10 billion in assets. Market forces may effectively require all banks to adopt debit card interchange fee structures which comply with these rules, which will significantly reduce the fee income earned from debit card transactions. Regulators may raise capital requirements above current levels in connection with the implementation of Basel III, the Dodd-Frank Act or otherwise, which may require us and our banking subsidiaries to hold additional capital which could limit the manner in which we and our banking subsidiaries conduct their business and obtain financing. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III in the United States, or otherwise, could result in us and our banking subsidiaries having to lengthen the term of their funding, restructure their business models, and/or increase their holdings of liquid assets. If the federal banking agencies implement a capital conservation buffer and/or a countercyclical capital buffer, as proposed in Basel III, a failure by us or any of our banking subsidiaries to satisfy the applicable buffer’s requirements would limit such institution’s ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. Our banking subsidiary has traditionally obtained funds principally through deposits and borrowings. As a general matter, deposits are a less costly source of funds than borrowings because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for borrowings. If, as a result of general economic conditions, market interest rates, competitive pressures or otherwise, the value of deposits at our banking subsidiary decreases relative to our overall banking operations, we may have to rely more heavily on borrowings as a source of funds in the future. We are subject to liquidity risk. Liquidity risk is the risk of potential loss if we are unable to meet our funding requirements at a reasonable cost. Our liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets or by unforeseen outflows of cash. This situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us. Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. A reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger unfavorable contractual obligations. Our access to funds from subsidiaries may be restricted. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from our banking and nonbanking subsidiaries. We therefore depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our banking and nonbanking subsidiaries to fund dividend payments on our common stock and to fund all payments on our other obligations. Our subsidiaries are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to the Company, which could impede access to funds we need to make payments on our obligations or dividend payments. Prepayments of loans may negatively impact our business. Generally, our customers may prepay the principal amount of their outstanding loans at any time. The speed at which such prepayments occur, as well as the size of such prepayments, are within our customers’ discretion. If customers prepay the principal amount of their loans, and we are unable to lend those funds to other borrowers or invest the funds at the same or higher interest rates, our interest income will be reduced. A significant reduction in interest income could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We may incur significant losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application may not be effective and may not anticipate every economic and financial outcome in all market environments or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Market conditions over the last several years have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk. We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel. The Company’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry can be intense and the Company may not be able to hire or retain the key personnel that it depends upon for success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of the Company’s key personnel could have a material adverse impact on its business because of their skills, knowledge of the markets in which the Company operates, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS We have credit and counter-party risk inherent in our securities portfolio and bank-owned life insurance policies. We maintain a diversified securities portfolio, which includes mortgage-backed securities issued by U.S. government and government sponsored agencies, obligations of the U.S. Treasury and government-sponsored agencies, securities issued by state and political subdivisions, private issue collateralized mortgage obligations and auction preferred securities. We also carry investments in bank-owned life insurance and Federal Home Loan Bank stock. We seek to limit credit losses in our securities portfolios by generally purchasing only highly-rated securities. The current economic environment and recent volatility of financial markets increase the difficulty of assessing investment securities impairment and the same influences tend to increase the risk of potential impairment of these assets. During the year ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recorded charges for other-than-temporary impairment of securities of $221,000, $11,000 and $15.0 million, respectively. We believe that we have adequately reviewed our investment securities for impairment and that our investment securities are carried at fair value. However, over time, the economic and market environment may provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities, which could change our judgment regarding impairment. In addition, if the counter-party should default, become insolvent, declare bankruptcy, or otherwise cease to exist, the value of our investment may be impaired. This could result in realized losses relating to other-than-temporary declines being charged against future income. Given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and additional material other-than-temporary impairments may be charged to income in future periods, resulting in realized losses. Increases in FDIC deposit insurance premiums will increase our non-interest expense. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has amended the deposit insurance assessment by changing the calculation of deposit assessments. Under the new calculation, deposit premiums will be based on assets rather than insurable deposits. To determine its actual deposit insurance premiums, the Bank will compute the base amount on its average consolidated assets less its average tangible equity (which the FDIC proposes to be defined as the amount of Tier 1 capital) and its applicable assessment rate. The new assessment formula will become effective on April 1, 2011, and will be used to calculate the June 30, 2011 assessment. Future expenses will be based on asset levels, Tier 1 capital levels, assessment rates, CAMELS ratings, and whether there are any future special assessments by the FDIC. The Bank is unable to predict the effect of the changes to the calculation of its deposit insurance assessment, but expects that its aggregate FDIC-deposit insurance premium payable June 30, 2011 will be lower than its December 31, 2010 payment. Any increase in our deposit insurance premiums will result in an increase in our non-interest expense. We could be held responsible for environmental liabilities of properties we acquire through foreclosure. If we are forced to foreclose on a defaulted mortgage loan to recover our investment, we may be subject to environmental liabilities related to the underlying real property. Hazardous substances or wastes, contaminants, pollutants or sources thereof may be discovered on properties during our ownership or after a sale to a third party. The amount of environmental liability could exceed the value of the real property. There can be no assurance that we would not be fully liable for the entire cost of any removal and clean-up on an acquired property, that the cost of removal and clean-up would not exceed the value of the property, or that we could recoup any of the costs from any third party. Due to the nature of our business, we may be subject to litigation from time to time, some of which may not be covered by insurance. As a holding company and through our bank subsidiary, we operate in a highly regulated industry, and as a result, are subject to various regulations related to disclosures to our customers, our lending practices, and other fiduciary responsibilities, including those to our shareholders. From time to time, we have been, and may become, subject to legal actions relating to our operations that have involved, or could involve, claims for substantial monetary damages. Although we maintain insurance, the scope of this coverage may not provide us with full, or even partial, coverage in any particular case. As a result, a judgment against us in any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are subject to reputational risk. Our actual or perceived failure to (a) identify and address potential conflicts of interest, ethical issues, money-laundering, or privacy issues; (b) meet legal and regulatory requirements applicable to the Bank and to the Company; (c) maintain the privacy of customer and accompanying personal information; (d) maintain adequate record keeping; (e) engage in proper sales and trading practices; and (f) identify the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our products could give rise to reputational risk that could cause harm to the Bank and our business prospects. If we fail to address any of these issues in an appropriate manner, we could be subject to additional legal risks, which, in turn, could increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is damaged. To the extent that we acquire other companies, our business may be negatively impacted by certain risks inherent with such acquisitions. We have acquired and will continue to consider the acquisition of other financial services companies. To the extent that we acquire other companies in the future, our business may be negatively impacted by certain risks inherent with such acquisitions. These risks include the following: • the risk that the acquired business will not perform in accordance with management’s expectations; • the risk that difficulties will arise in connection with the integration of the operations of the acquired business with the operations of our businesses; • the risk that management will divert its attention from other aspects of our business; • the risk that we may lose key employees of the combined business; and • the risks associated with entering into geographic and product markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience. We may be required to write down goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. When the Company acquires a business, a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired determines the amount of the purchase price that is allocated to goodwill acquired. At December 31, 2010, the Company’s goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets were approximately $45.8 million. Under current accounting standards, if the Company determines goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, it would be required to write down the value of these assets. The Company conducts an annual review to determine whether goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets are impaired. The Company recently completed such an impairment analysis and concluded that no impairment charge was necessary for the year ended December 31, 2010. The Company cannot provide assurance whether it will be required to take an impairment charge in the future. Any impairment charge would have a negative effect on its shareholders’ equity and financial results and may cause a decline in our stock price. We are subject to operational risk. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, information technology system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. We depend upon information technology, software, communication, and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the Internet. Despite instituted safeguards, we cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. If our information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and we could be exposed to claims from customers. While we maintain a system of internal controls and procedures, any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS We must adapt to information technology changes in the financial services industry, which could present operational issues, require significant capital spending, or impact our reputation. The financial services industry is constantly undergoing technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and reduce costs. The Company’s future success will depend, in part, upon the Company’s ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to the Company’s customers. The market value of wealth management assets under administration may be negatively affected by changes in economic and market conditions. A substantial portion of income from fiduciary services is dependent on the market value of wealth management assets under administration, which are primarily marketable securities. Changes in domestic and foreign economic conditions, volatility in financial markets, and general trends in business and finance, all of which are beyond our control, could adversely impact the market value of these assets and the fee revenues derived from the management of these assets. We may not be able to attract and retain wealth management clients at current levels. Due to strong competition, our wealth management division may not be able to attract and retain clients at current levels. Competition is strong as there are numerous well-established and successful investment management and wealth advisory firms including commercial banks and trust companies, investment advisory firms, mutual fund companies, stock brokerage firms, and other financial companies. Our ability to attract and retain wealth management clients is dependent upon our ability to compete with competitors’ investment products, level of investment performance, client services, marketing and distribution capabilities. If we are not successful, our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted. Our shareholders may not receive dividends on the common stock. Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, and if declared by our board of directors. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our board of directors may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. Further, the FRB has issued guidelines for evaluating proposals by large bank holding companies to increase dividends or repurchase or redeem shares, which includes a requirement for such firms to develop a capital distribution plan. The FRB has indicated that it is considering expanding these requirements to cover all bank holding companies, which may in the future restrict our ability to pay dividends. A reduction or elimination of dividends could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Changes in accounting standards can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to anticipate and implement and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. For example, the FASB’s current financial instruments project could, among other things, significantly change the way loan loss provisions are determined from an incurred loss model to an expected loss model, and may also result in most financial instruments being required to be reported at fair value. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates, which, if wrong, could cause unexpected losses in the future. Pursuant to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including in determining credit loss reserves, reserves related to litigation and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses. For additional information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved written comments relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year. 