Item 1A. Risk Factors Recent market volatility may impact our business and the value of our common stock. Our business performance and the trading price of shares of our common stock may be affected by many factors affecting financial institutions, including the recent volatility in the credit, mortgage and housing markets, the markets for securities relating to mortgages or housing, and the value of debt and mortgage-backed and other securities that we hold in our investment portfolio. Government action and legislation may also impact us and the value of our common stock. Given the unprecedented nature of this volatility, we cannot predict what impact, if any, it will have on our business or share price and for these and other reasons our shares of common stock may trade at a price lower than that at which they were purchased. If we do not maintain net income growth, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our return on shareholders’ equity and other measures of profitability, which affect the market price of our common stock, depend in part on our continued growth and expansion. Our growth strategy has two principal components — internal growth and external growth. Our ability to generate internal growth is affected by the competitive factors described below as well as by the primarily rural characteristics and related demographic features of the markets we serve. Our ability to continue to identify and invest in suitable acquisition candidates on acceptable terms is an important component of our external growth strategy. In pursuing acquisition opportunities, we may be in competition with other companies having similar growth strategies. As a result, we may not be able to identify or acquire promising acquisition candidates on acceptable terms. Competition for these acquisitions could result in increased acquisition prices and a diminished pool of acquisition opportunities. An inability to find suitable acquisition candidates at reasonable prices could slow our growth rate and have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. Interest rate volatility may reduce our profitability. Our profitability depends to a large extent upon our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Net interest income can be affected significantly by changes in market interest rates. In particular, changes in relative interest rates may reduce our net interest income as the difference between interest income and interest expense decreases. As a result, we have adopted asset and liability management policies to minimize the potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on net interest income, primarily by altering the mix and maturity of loans, investments and funding sources. However, there can be no assurance that a change in interest rates will not negatively impact our results from operations or financial position. Since market interest rates may change by differing magnitudes and at different times, significant changes in interest rates over an extended period of time could reduce overall net interest income. An increase in interest rates could also have a negative impact on our results of operations by reducing the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations, which could not only result in increased loan defaults, foreclosures and write-offs, but also necessitate further increases to our allowance for loan losses. If our allowance for loan losses is not adequate to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for probable loan losses based on a number of factors. Monthly, the Corporate Risk Management group reviews the assumptions, calculation methodology and balance of the allowance for loan losses with the board of directors for the bank subsidiary. On a quarterly basis, the Company’s Board of Directors, as well as the board of directors for the subsidiary bank, completes a similar review of the allowance for loan losses. If the assumptions are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover the losses we could experience, which would have an adverse effect on operating results, and may also cause us to increase the allowance for loan losses in the future. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provisions for credit losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. If additional amounts are provided to the allowance for loan losses, our earnings could decrease. 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our loans are concentrated in certain areas of Maine and adverse conditions in those markets could adversely affect our operations. We are exposed to real estate and economic factors throughout Maine, as virtually the entire loan portfolio is concentrated among borrowers in Maine, with higher concentrations of exposure in Cumberland, Hancock, Knox and Waldo counties. Further, because a substantial portion of the loan portfolio is secured by real estate in this area, the value of the associated collateral is also subject to regional real estate market conditions. Adverse economic, political or business developments or natural hazards may affect these areas and the ability of property owners in these areas to make payments of principal and interest on the underlying mortgages. If these regions experience adverse economic, political or business conditions, we would likely experience higher rates of loss and delinquency on these loans than if the loans were more geographically diverse. We experience strong competition within our markets, which may impact our profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is strong. In our market areas, we compete for loans, deposits and other financial products and services with local independent banks, thrift institutions, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally as well as nationally. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than those of our subsidiaries and may offer services that our subsidiaries do not or cannot provide. Our long-term success depends on the ability of our subsidiaries to compete successfully with other financial institutions in their service areas. Because we maintain a smaller staff and have fewer financial and other resources than larger institutions with which we compete, we may be limited in our ability to attract customers. If we are unable to attract and retain customers, we may be unable to achieve growth in the loan and core deposit portfolios, and our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted. Our banking business is highly regulated, and we may be adversely affected by changes in law and regulation. Bank holding companies and national banking associations operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision, regulation and examination by various federal regulatory agencies, as well as other governmental agencies in the states in which they operate. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters including changes in the ownership or control of banks and BHCs, maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution, permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments, permissible non-banking activities, the level of reserves against deposits and restrictions on dividend payments. The OCC possesses cease and desist powers to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulation, and the FRB possesses similar powers with respect to BHCs. These and other restrictions limit the manner in which we may conduct business and obtain financing. Our business is affected not only by general economic conditions, but also by the economic, fiscal and monetary policies of the United States and its agencies and regulatory authorities, particularly the FRB. The economic and fiscal policies of various governmental entities and the monetary policies of the FRB may affect the interest rates our bank subsidiary must offer to attract deposits and the interest rates they must charge on loans, as well as the manner in which they offer deposits and make loans. These economic, fiscal and monetary policies have had, and are expected to continue to have, significant effects on the operating results of depository institutions generally, including our bank subsidiary. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. Our banking subsidiary has traditionally obtained funds principally through deposits and borrowings. As a general matter, deposits are a less costly source of funds than borrowings because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for borrowings. If, as a result of general economic conditions, market interest rates, competitive pressures or otherwise, the value of deposits at our banking subsidiary decreases relative to our overall banking operations, we may have to rely more heavily on borrowings as a source of funds in the future. 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are subject to liquidity risk. Liquidity risk is the risk of potential loss if we were unable to meet our funding requirements at a reasonable cost. Our liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets or by unforeseen outflows of cash. This situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us. Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. A reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger unfavorable contractual obligations. Our access to funds from subsidiaries may be restricted. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from our banking and nonbanking subsidiaries. We therefore depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our banking and nonbanking subsidiaries to fund dividend payments on the common stock and to fund all payments on our other obligations. Our subsidiaries are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to the Company, which could impede access to funds we need to make payments on our obligations or dividend payments. We have credit and counter-party risk inherent in our securities portfolio and bank-owned life insurance policies. We maintain a diversified securities portfolio, which includes mortgage-backed securities issued by U.S. government and government sponsored agencies, obligations of the U.S. Treasury and government-sponsored agencies, securities issued by state and political subdivisions, private issue collateralized mortgage obligations and auction preferred securities. We also carry investments in bank-owned life insurance and Federal Home Loan Bank stock. We seek to limit credit losses in our securities portfolios by generally purchasing only highly-rated securities. The current economic environment and recent volatility of financial markets increase the difficulty of assessing investment securities impairment and the same influences tend to increase the risk of potential impairment of these assets. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded charges for other-than-temporary impairment of securities of $11.0 thousand. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded charges for other-than-temporary impairment of securities of $15.0 million. We believe that we have adequately reviewed our investment securities for impairment and that our investment securities are carried at fair value. However, over time, the economic and market environment may provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities, which could change our judgment regarding impairment. In addition, if the counter-party should default, become insolvent, declare bankruptcy, or otherwise cease to exist, the value of our investment may be impaired. This could result in realized losses relating to other-than-temporary declines being charged against future income. Given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and additional material other-than-temporary impairments may be charged to income in future periods, resulting in realized losses. Increases in FDIC deposit insurance premiums will increase our non-interest expense. On December 16, 2008, the FDIC adopted a final rule, which took effect on January 1, 2009, increasing the deposit insurance assessment rate by seven cents per $100 of deposits. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC adopted another final rule, effective as of April 1, 2009, that, among other things, changed the way that the FDIC’s assessment system differentiates for risk and makes corresponding changes to assessment rates. As a result, our base assessment rate increased on April 1, 2009. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. The special assessment amounted to 5 basis points on each institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, subject to a maximum equal to 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base. The Bank’s special assessment in the aggregate amounted to $1.1 million. The increase in our deposit insurance premiums will result in an increase in our non-interest expense. 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS We could be held responsible for environmental liabilities of properties we acquire through foreclosure. If we are forced to foreclose on a defaulted mortgage loan to recover our investment, we may be subject to environmental liabilities related to the underlying real property. Hazardous substances or wastes, contaminants, pollutants or sources thereof may be discovered on properties during our ownership or after a sale to a third party. The amount of environmental liability could exceed the value of the real property. There can be no assurance that we would not be fully liable for the entire cost of any removal and clean-up on an acquired property, that the cost of removal and clean-up would not exceed the value of the property, or that we could recoup any of the costs from any third party. Due to the nature of our business, we may be subject to litigation from time to time, some of which may not be covered by insurance. As a holding company and through our bank subsidiary, we operate in a highly regulated industry, and as a result, are subject to various regulations related to disclosures to our customers, our lending practices, and other fiduciary responsibilities, including those to our shareholders. From time to time, we have been, and may become, subject to legal actions relating to our operations that have had, or could, involve claims for substantial monetary damages. Although we maintain insurance, the scope of this coverage may not provide us with full, or even partial, coverage in any particular case. As a result, a judgment against us in any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We are subject to reputational risk. Our actual or perceived failure to (a) identify and address potential conflicts of interest, ethical issues, money-laundering, or privacy issues; (b) meet legal and regulatory requirements applicable to the Bank and to the Company; (c) maintain the privacy of customer and associate personal information; (d) maintain adequate record keeping; (e) engage in proper sales and trading practices; and (f) identify the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our products could give rise to reputational risk that could cause harm to the Bank and our business prospects. If we fail to address any of these issues in an appropriate manner, we could be subject to additional legal risks, which, in turn, could increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is damaged. To the extent that we acquire other companies, our business may be negatively impacted by certain risks inherent with such acquisitions. We have acquired and will continue to consider the acquisition of other financial services companies. To the extent that we acquire other companies in the future, our business may be negatively impacted by certain risks inherent with such acquisitions. These risks include the following: • the risk that the acquired business will not perform in accordance with management’s expectations; • the risk that difficulties will arise in connection with the integration of the operations of the acquired business with the operations of our businesses; • the risk that management will divert its attention from other aspects of our business; • the risk that we may lose key employees of the combined business; and • the risks associated with entering into geographic and product markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience. We may be required to write down goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. When the Company acquires a business, a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired determines the amount of the purchase price that is allocated to goodwill acquired. At December 31, 2009, the Company’s goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets were approximately $46.4 million. Under current accounting standards, if the Company 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS determines goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, it would be required to write down the value of these assets. The Company conducts an annual review to determine whether goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets are impaired. The Company recently completed such an impairment analysis and concluded that no impairment charge was necessary for the year ended December 31, 2009. The Company cannot provide assurance whether it will be required to take an impairment charge in the future. Any impairment charge would have a negative effect on its shareholders’ equity and financial results and may cause a decline in our stock price. We are subject to operational risk. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, information technology system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. We depend upon information technology, software, communication, and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the Internet. Despite instituted safeguards, we cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and we could be exposed to claims from customers. While we maintain a system of internal controls and procedures, any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The market value of wealth management assets under administration may be negatively affected by changes in economic and market conditions. A substantial portion of income from fiduciary services is dependent on the market value of wealth management assets under administration, which are primarily marketable securities. Changes in domestic and foreign economic conditions, volatility in financial markets, and general trends in business and finance, all of which are beyond our control, could adversely impact the market value of these assets and the fee revenues derived from the management of these assets. We may not be able to attract and retain wealth management clients at current levels. Due to strong competition, our wealth management division may not be able to attract and retain clients at current levels. Competition is strong as there are numerous well-established and successful investment management and wealth advisory firms including commercial banks and trust companies, investment advisory firms, mutual fund companies, stock brokerage firms, and other financial companies. Many of our competitors have greater resources than we have. Our ability to attract and retain wealth management clients is dependent upon our ability to compete with competitors’ investment products, level of investment performance, client services, marketing and distribution capabilities. If we are not successful, our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved written comments relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year. 