Item 1A. Risk Factors Interest rate volatility may reduce our profitability. Our profitability depends to a large extent upon our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Net interest income can be affected significantly by changes in market interest rates. In particular, changes in relative interest rates may reduce our net interest income as the difference between interest income and interest expense decreases. As a result, we have adopted asset and liability management policies to minimize the potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on net interest income, primarily by altering the mix and maturity of loans, investments and funding sources. However, there can be no assurance that a change in interest rates will not negatively impact our results from operations or financial position. Since market interest rates may change by differing magnitudes and at different times, significant changes in interest rates over an extended period of time could reduce overall net interest income. An increase in interest rates could also have a negative impact on our results of operations by reducing the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations, which could not only result in increased loan defaults, foreclosures and write-offs, but also necessitate further increases to our allowance for loan and lease losses. Page 11 Table of Contents Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan and lease losses. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for probable loan and lease losses based on a number of factors. Monthly, the Corporate Risk Management Group reviews the assumptions, calculation methodology and balance of the allowance for loan and lease losses (“ALLL”) with the board of directors for each bank subsidiary. On a quarterly basis, the Company’s Board of Directors, as well as the board of directors for each subsidiary bank, completes a similar review of the ALLL. If the assumptions are incorrect, the ALLL may not be sufficient to cover the losses we could experience, which would have an adverse effect on operating results, and may also cause us to increase the ALLL in the future. If additional amounts were provided to the ALLL, our net income would decrease. Our loans are concentrated in certain areas of Maine and adverse conditions in those markets could adversely affect our operations. We are exposed to real estate and economic factors in the central, southern, western and midcoast areas of Maine, as virtually the entire loan portfolio is concentrated among borrowers in these markets. Further, because a substantial portion of the loan portfolio is secured by real estate in this area, the value of the associated collateral is also subject to regional real estate market conditions. Adverse economic, political or business developments or natural hazards may affect these areas and the ability of property owners in these areas to make payments of principal and interest on the underlying mortgages. If these regions experience adverse economic, political or business conditions, we would likely experience higher rates of loss and delinquency on these mortgage loans than if the loans were more geographically diverse. If we do not maintain net income growth, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our return on shareholders’ equity and other measures of profitability, which affect the market price of our common stock, depend in part on our continued growth and expansion. Our growth strategy has two principal components—internal growth and external growth. Our ability to generate internal growth is affected by the competitive factors described below as well as by the primarily rural characteristics and related demographic features of the markets we serve. Our ability to continue to identify and invest in suitable acquisition candidates on acceptable terms is crucial to our external growth. In pursuing acquisition opportunities, we may be in competition with other companies having similar growth strategies. As a result, we may not be able to identify or acquire promising acquisition candidates on acceptable terms. Competition for these acquisitions could result in increased acquisition prices and a diminished pool of acquisition opportunities. An inability to find suitable acquisition candidates at reasonable prices could slow our growth rate and have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. We experience strong competition within our markets, which may impact our profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is strong. In our market areas, we compete for loans and deposits with local independent banks, thrift institutions, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally as well as nationally. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than those of our subsidiaries and may offer services that our subsidiaries do not or cannot provide. Our long-term success depends on the ability of our subsidiaries to compete successfully with other financial institutions in their service areas. Because we maintain a smaller staff and have fewer financial and other resources than larger institutions with which we compete, we may be limited in our ability to attract customers. If we are unable to attract and retain customers, we may be unable to sustain growth in the loan portfolio and our results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be negatively impacted. Page 12 Table of Contents Our cost of funds for banking operations may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. Our banking subsidiaries have traditionally obtained funds principally through deposits and borrowings. As a general matter, deposits are a less costly source of funds than borrowings because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for borrowings. If, as a result of general economic conditions, market interest rates, competitive pressures or otherwise, the value of deposits at our banking subsidiaries decreases relative to our overall banking operations, we may have to rely more heavily on borrowings as a source of funds in the future. Our banking business is highly regulated. Bank holding companies, national banking associations and state-chartered banks operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision, regulation and examination by various federal and state bank regulatory agencies, as well as other governmental agencies in the states in which they operate. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters including changes in the ownership or control of banks and BHCs, maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution, permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments, permissible non-banking activities, the level of reserves against deposits and restrictions on dividend payments. The OCC, the FDIC and the Superintendent possess cease and desist powers to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulation, and the FRB possesses similar powers with respect to BHCs. These and other restrictions limit the manner in which we may conduct business and obtain financing. Furthermore, our business is affected not only by general economic conditions, but also by the economic, fiscal and monetary policies of the United States and its agencies and regulatory authorities, particularly the FRB. The economic and fiscal policies of various governmental entities and the monetary policies of the FRB may affect the interest rates our bank subsidiaries must offer to attract deposits and the interest rates they must charge on loans, as well as the manner in which they offer deposits and make loans. These economic, fiscal and monetary policies have had, and are expected to continue to have, significant effects on the operating results of depository institutions generally, including our bank subsidiaries. We could be held responsible for environmental liabilities of properties we acquire through foreclosure. If we are forced to foreclose on a defaulted mortgage loan to recover our investment, we may be subject to environmental liabilities related to the underlying real property. Hazardous substances or wastes, contaminants, pollutants or sources thereof may be discovered on properties during our ownership or after a sale to a third party. The amount of environmental liability could exceed the value of the real property. There can be no assurance that we would not be fully liable for the entire cost of any removal and clean-up on an acquired property, that the cost of removal and clean-up would not exceed the value of the property, or that we could recoup any of the costs from any third party. Page 13 Table of Contents To the extent that we acquire other companies in the future, our business may be negatively impacted by certain risks inherent with such acquisitions. Although we do not have an aggressive acquisition strategy, we have acquired, and in the future, will continue to consider the acquisition of, other financial services companies. To the extent that we acquire other companies in the future, our business may be negatively impacted by certain risks inherent with such acquisitions. These risks include the following: • the risk that the acquired business will not perform in accordance with management’s expectations; • the risk that difficulties will arise in connection with the integration of the operations of the acquired business with the operations of our businesses; • the risk that management will divert its attention from other aspects of our business; • the risk that we may lose key employees of the acquired business; and • the risks associated with entering into geographic and product markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience. Due to the nature of our business, we may be subject to litigation from time to time, some of which may not be covered by insurance. Through our bank subsidiaries, we operate in a highly regulated industry, and as a result, are subject to various regulations related to disclosures to our customers, our lending practices, and other fiduciary responsibilities. From time to time, we have been, and may become, subject to legal actions relating to our operations that have had, or could, involve claims for substantial monetary damages. Although we maintain insurance, the scope of this coverage may not provide us with full, or even partial, coverage in any particular case. As a result, a judgment against us in any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Changes in tax legislation could have a material impact on our results of operations. Changes in tax legislation could have a material impact on our results of operations. The State of Maine may replace its current franchise tax on financial institutions with a corporate-based tax. We are subject to inherent risks related to the merger of our bank franchises. During 2006, we plan to merge our two banking subsidiaries to operate under the CNB charter. Our business may be negatively impacted by certain risks inherent with such transactions, such as the risk that the merged bank will not perform in accordance with management’s expectations, the risk that difficulties will arise in connection with the integration of the operations of the banks, the risk that management will divert its attention from other aspects of our business, and the risk that we may lose key employees of the merged banks. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no material unresolved written comments relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year. Page 14 Table of Contents 