Item 1A. Risk Factors Stockholders and potential investors in our securities should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information in this Form 10-K. We are identifying these risk factors as important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any written or oral forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. We are relying upon the safe-harbor for forward-looking statements and any such statements made by or on behalf of us are qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements, as well as to those set forth elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. We have a significant amount of leverage and interest expense resulting from our indebtedness incurred in the financing and other transactions completed in connection with the Plan, indebtedness of our Canadian subsidiaries, and other indebtedness in respect of certain capital lease obligations. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $188.6 million of total indebtedness, including $3.0 million of capital leases, and our 2006 consolidated annual debt service requirements are expected to aggregate approximately $22.6 million. Although we issued $193 million aggregate principal amount at maturity of our 11.75% senior notes, such notes were issued at a discount of 2.325% resulting in gross proceeds to us of approximately $188.5 million. Thus, while not receiving gross proceeds equal to the principal amount of our 11.75% senior notes, we are obligated to repay the full remaining principal amount thereof at maturity, which totaled $189.0 million at December 31, 2005, and we may not optionally redeem the notes prior to maturity except under limited circumstances. While the principal amount of our indebtedness has been reduced, our annual interest expense is higher than it was prior to the effective date of the Plan and our total annual debt service requirements continue to be substantial. The funds required to satisfy these requirements, which will derive principally from our operating cash flows, will not be available for working capital or to make investments in the future growth and development of our business. Our high level of indebtedness and annual debt service requirements could, for example: make it difficult for us to satisfy our obligations on the notes; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our operating cash flows for other purposes, such as capital expenditures, funding seismic data acquisitions and working capital; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; expose us to fluctuations in the interest rate environment because our revolving credit facility is at a variable rate of interest; and limit our ability to borrow additional funds. If, for any reason, we do not have sufficient funds from operating cash flows, cash and cash equivalents on hand, and borrowings available under our revolving credit facilities to pay principal and interest, when due, on the 11.75% senior notes and on our other outstanding debt obligations (including borrowings under our revolving credit facilities), we will be required to seek to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt, sell assets or seek to borrow additional funds or raise additional equity capital. We cannot guarantee that we would be able to complete any of the aforementioned refinancing transactions on terms that are commercially reasonable or otherwise acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, the terms of our agreements governing our indebtedness, including our revolving credit facilities and the indenture governing our 11.75% senior notes, restrict us from implementing such refinancing transactions. The failure to generate sufficient operating cash flows could significantly and adversely affect our ability to pay principal of and interest on our 11.75% senior notes. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to economic conditions and to industry, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. The indenture governing the notes contains covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to incur certain additional indebtedness, incur indebtedness that is subordinate to any other indebtedness unless such indebtedness is expressly subordinate to the notes and the guarantees, pay cash dividends or make other cash distributions on or repurchase or redeem for cash our capital stock, make certain investments, sell assets without using the net proceeds thereof as set forth in the indenture, make certain capital expenditures in excess of $65 million plus unused excess cash flow (as defined in the indenture) in any fiscal year, grant and permit certain liens, enter into sale-leaseback transactions, enter into agreements affecting the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends, enter into transactions with affiliates, merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our assets, and grant security interests or liens on our assets. Additionally, our revolving credit facility in the U.S. (with WFF) contains covenants requiring us to achieve and maintain certain financial results, and restricts, among other things, the amount of our capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money, grant additional liens on our assets, make particular types of investments and restricted payments, sell our assets, and merge or consolidate. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility in the U.S. are secured by a first priority, perfected security interest in, and lien on, all of our U.S. tangible and intangible assets, and we have pledged to WFF all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of our U.S. subsidiaries. Any default in respect of these covenants could materially and adversely affect our ability to conduct our business in the ordinary course, enter into business transactions and impair our rights under our other commercial agreements. Failure to comply with the SEC's final judgment of permanent injunction entered on consent against us could adversely affect our business, and could subject us to further SEC investigations, enforcement action, criminal prosecution and significant penalties. We were the subject of a formal investigation by the SEC's Division of Enforcement. We cooperated fully with the SEC during the course of its investigation, and reached a consensual resolution of the SEC's civil complaint resulting in its consent to a final judgment of permanent injunction (the "SEC Injunction") being entered on June 16, 2003 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas, Houston Division. The agreement for the entry of the SEC Injunction was without admitting or denying the allegations in the SEC's complaint, which had alleged violations of the reporting, books and records, internal controls and proxy statement provisions of the Exchange Act and rules and regulations adopted under the Exchange Act. Our chief executive officer and chief financial officer at the time of the events giving rise to the SEC's complaint have been replaced. The SEC Injunction, by its terms, permanently restrains and enjoins us from, among other things: (1) filing with the SEC any annual report under the Exchange Act that contains any untrue statement of a material fact, which omits to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or that omits to disclose any information required to be disclosed, (2) failing to make and keep accurate books, records and accounts, (3) failing to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls and procedures, or (4) soliciting any proxy or consent or authorization in respect of any security registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act in contravention of the SEC's proxy rules, or making any solicitation by means of any proxy statement, form of proxy, notice of meeting or other communication subject to the SEC's proxy rules which, at the time and in light of the circumstances under which it is made, is false or misleading with respect to any material fact, or which omits to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. If we fail to comply with any of the provisions of the SEC Injunction, such failure could adversely affect us, and the market price of our securities could significantly decline. Limitations on our ability to utilize net operating losses and other tax benefits may result in future net operating income being taxable income. Companies which have had a change in ownership as defined by the Internal Revenue Code are subject to limitations on certain tax attributes. The testing period for ownership change is a three-year moving period. We have had significant ownership changes since the effective date of the Plan. Currently, we do not anticipate that any tax attributes will be subject to limitation; however, we will continue to analyze and monitor ownership changes to identify potential limitations. In any event, we do not expect a significant impact to our financial position or results of operation because we have a full valuation allowance against the U.S. tax attributes subject to these limitations. Our internal controls for financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent all possible errors that could occur. Internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objective will be met. Each quarter, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer evaluate our internal controls for financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures, which includes a review of the objectives, design, implementation and effect of the controls in respect of the information generated for use in our periodic reports. In the course of our controls evaluation, we seek to identify data errors, control problems and to confirm that appropriate corrective action, including process improvements, were being undertaken. The overall goals of these various evaluation activities are to monitor our internal controls for financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures and to make modifications as necessary. Our intent in this regard is that our internal controls for financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures will be maintained as dynamic systems that change (including with improvements and corrections) as conditions warrant. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be satisfied. Our management has concluded that our internal controls for financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to give a reasonable assurance that they are effective to achieve their objectives. We cannot provide absolute assurance that all possible future control issues within our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the possibility that judgments in our decision-making could be faulty, and that isolated breakdowns could occur because of simple human error or mistake. The design of our system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed absolutely in achieving our stated goals under all potential future or unforeseeable conditions. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error could occur and not be detected. Our business could be adversely affected by low exploration and development spending by oil and gas companies and by low oil and gas prices. Our business depends upon exploration and development spending by oil and gas companies. Capital expenditures by oil and gas companies depend upon several factors, including actual and forecasted petroleum commodity prices and the companies' own short-term and strategic plans. These capital expenditures may also be affected by worldwide economic or industry-wide conditions. There can be no assurance that oil and gas prices will not decline in the future. Low oil and gas prices could result in decreased exploration and development spending by oil and gas companies, which could affect our seismic data business. Any future decline in oil and gas prices or sustained periods of reduced capital expenditures by oil and gas companies could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. A downturn in the availability of private equity could have a negative impact on the ability of our customers to raise capital necessary to purchase our seismic data. Many of our customers consist of independent oil and gas companies and private prospect-generating companies that rely primarily on private equity capital to fund their exploration, production, development and field management activities. A significant downturn in the availability of private equity capital could have a material adverse impact on the ability of such companies to obtain funding necessary to purchase our seismic data which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. We invest significant amounts of money in acquiring and processing seismic data for our data library with only partial underwriting of the costs by customers. We invest significant amounts of money in acquiring and processing new seismic data to add to our data library. A portion of these investments is funded by our customers, while the remainder is sought to be recovered through future data licensing fees. The amounts of underwriting and of these future data licensing fees are uncertain and depend on a variety of factors, including the market prices of oil and gas, customer demand for seismic data in our library, availability of similar data from competitors and governmental regulations affecting oil and gas exploration. We may not be able to recover all of the costs of or earn any return on such investments. In periods where sales do not meet original expectations, we may be required to record additional amortization and/or impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of our data library, which charges may be material to operating results in any period. Because our business is concentrated in the U.S. Gulf Coast and Canada, it could be adversely affected by developments in the oil and gas business that affect these areas. While we have seismic surveys in other areas, most of the seismic data in our library covers areas along the U.S. Gulf Coast, offshore in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and in Canada. Because of this geographic concentration, our results of operations and our cash flow could be materially and adversely affected by economic events relating primarily to one of these regions even if conditions in the oil and gas industry worldwide were favorable. Extensive governmental regulation of our business affects our operations. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, provincial, state, foreign and local laws and regulations, including environmental and health and safety laws. We invest financial and managerial resources to comply with these laws and related permit requirements. Various governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with these regulations and the permits issued under them, and violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. In addition, failure to timely obtain required permits may result in delays in acquiring new data for the data library or cause operating losses. Because these laws and our business may change from time to time, we cannot predict the future cost of complying with these laws, and expenditures to ensure our compliance could be material in the future. Modification of existing laws or regulations or adoption of new laws or regulations limiting exploration or production activities by oil and gas companies could adversely affect us by reducing the demand for our seismic data. Competition is intense. Competition among geophysical service providers historically has been, and will continue to be, intense. Certain competitors have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. These larger and better-financed operators could enjoy an advantage over us in a competitive environment for contract awards and data sales and in the development of new technologies. Our operating results and cash flows may vary due to circumstances beyond our control. Our operating results and available cash flow may, in the future, vary in material respects from period to period. Factors that could cause variations include (1) timing of the receipt and commencement of contracts for data acquisition, (2) our customers' budgetary cycles and their effect on the demand for geophysical activities, (3) seasonal factors, (4) the timing of sales and selections of significant geophysical data from our data library, which are not typically made in a linear or consistent pattern and (5) technological or regulatory changes. We cannot assure you that our future performance will not be adversely affected by such economic conditions and financial, business and other factors. Reduced actual or estimated future sales or cash flows may result in a requirement to increase amortization rates or record impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of our data library. Such charges, if required, could be material to operating results in the periods in which they are recorded. For purposes of evaluating potential impairment losses, we estimate the future cash flows attributable to a library component by evaluating historical and recent revenue trends, oil and gas prospectivity in particular regions, general economic conditions affecting our customer base, expected changes in technology and other factors that we deem relevant. The estimation of future cash flows is highly subjective, inherently imprecise and could change materially from period to period based on the factors described in the immediately preceding sentence, among others. Accordingly, if conditions change in the future, we may record impairment losses relative to our seismic data library, which could be material to our results of operations in any particular reporting period. We may face risks associated with our foreign revenue generating activities. Portions of our revenues are derived from our Canadian activities and operations and, as a result, are denominated in Canadian dollars. We are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk on cash flows related to sales, expenses, financing and investing transactions in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Foreign currency fluctuations could result in a material adverse affect to our results of operations. We may be unable to attract and retain key employees. Our success depends upon attracting and retaining highly skilled geophysical professionals and other technical personnel. A failure to continue to attract and retain such individuals could adversely affect our ability to compete in the geophysical services industry. We may confront significant and potentially adverse competition for key personnel, particularly during periods of increased demand for geophysical services. Our success also will depend to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of members of our senior management, the loss of whom could adversely affect our business. Moreover, certain of our senior executive officers have a very limited history of working together and may not be able to develop an effective working relationship. Our president and chief executive officer was appointed in December 2004, after serving as our chief financial officer since May 2004. Our chief financial officer was hired in July 2005. The failure of our executive officers and management personnel to develop an effective or sustained working relationship could require us to incur additional expenses and devote substantial senior management time and resources to identify qualified replacement personnel. Only our president and chief executive officer, our chief operating officer and our chief financial officer have employment agreements with us. We cannot be certain that our senior executives will continue to be employed by us for an indefinite period of time and, if they do, how long they will remain so employed. Our inability to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business properly. VA Partners, L.L.C. owns a large percentage of our common stock, which would enable them to influence the election of our directors and other matters requiring the vote of our stockholders. VA Partners, L.L.C. ("ValueAct") and its affiliates have represented to us that they own 66,238,914 shares (or 39%) of our common stock on a fully diluted basis, following its acquisition of all of our common stock and warrants owned by Mellon HBV in March 2006. This substantial ownership of our common stock enables ValueAct to significantly influence the election of our directors, with respect to which there is cumulative voting, and possibly other corporate matters and transactions that require stockholder approval. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 