Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Form 10-K. The risk factors described below are not the only risks we face. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may also be affected by additional factors that are not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial or that are not specific to us, such as general economic conditions. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements included under “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information” of this Form 10-K. All forward-looking statements made by us are qualified by the risk factors described below.RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESSOur industry is cyclical and our business could be adversely affected by the level of capital expenditures by oil and gas companies and by the level and volatility of oil and natural gas prices.Our industry and the oil and gas industry generally are subject to cyclical fluctuations. Demand for our services depends upon spending levels by oil and gas companies for exploration, production, development and field management of oil and natural gas reserves and, in the case of new seismic data creation, the willingness of these companies to forgo ownership in the seismic data. Capital expenditures by oil and gas companies for these activities depend upon several factors, including actual and forecasted prices of oil and natural gas and those companies’ short-term and strategic business plans. Oil and natural gas prices in turn depend on local, regional and global events or conditions that affect supply and demand for the relevant commodity. These events or conditions are generally not predictable and include, among other things:•the level of demand for, and production of, oil and natural gas;•worldwide political, military and economic conditions, including social and political unrest in Africa and the Middle East;•technological advances affecting energy exploration, production and consumption;•weather, including seasonal patterns that affect regional energy demand as well as severe weather events that can disrupt supply;•the level of prices, and expectation about future prices, for oil and natural gas; •the ability of E&P companies to raise equity capital and debt financing or otherwise generate funds for exploration, development and production operations;•the cost of exploring for, developing and producing oil and natural gas;•the level of oil and natural gas reserves;•the rate of discovery of new oil and gas reserves and the decline of existing oil and gas reserves; •the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to set and maintain production levels and prices for oil; and •the enactment and implementation of government policies, including environmental regulations and tax policies, regarding the exploration for, production and development of oil and natural gas reserves and the use of fossil fuels and alternative energy sources.Oil and natural gas prices are subject to significant volatility and there can be no assurance that oil and natural gas prices and demand will not decline in the future. Low oil and natural gas prices and demand could result in decreased exploration and development spending by oil and gas companies, which could, in turn, impact our seismic data business. Additionally, increases in oil and gas prices may not increase demand for our products and services or otherwise have a positive effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our customers may adjust their exploration and development spending levels very quickly in response to any material change in oil and natural gas prices. Continued political instability (especially in the Middle East and other oil-producing regions) may lead to further significant fluctuations in demand and pricing for oil and gas or seismic data. Any future decline in oil and natural gas prices, sustained downturn in the oil and gas or seismic data industries, or sustained 14Table of Contentsperiods of reduced capital expenditures by oil and gas companies as a result of factors which are beyond our control could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow.Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, which could adversely impact our revenues by decreasing the demand for our seismic data and related services.Hydraulic fracturing is a process used by E&P operators in the completion of certain oil and gas wells whereby water, proppants (typically sand) and chemicals are injected under pressure into subsurface formations to stimulate gas and oil production. Due to public concerns that hydraulic fracturing may adversely affect drinking water supplies, increase emissions of perceived greenhouse gases and/or adversely affect local community infrastructure, including, for example, through increased truck traffic, hydraulic fracturing has become subject to increased opposition by certain environmental groups, resulted in numerous private and governmental studies, and triggering increased governmental regulation. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but the EPA has asserted limited regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing, and has indicated it might seek to further expand its regulation of hydraulic fracturing. Also, the Bureau of Land Management has proposed regulations applicable to hydraulic fracturing conducted on federal and Indian oil and gas leases. In addition, Congress has from time to time considered the adoption of legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing. Regional or state agencies with control over the withdrawal of water used in hydraulic fracturing activities may impose stringent conditions on, or delay or prohibit, such water withdrawals. At the state level, a growing number of states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. In addition, local governments may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. If new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions related to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where our E&P customers operate, those customers could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements and experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, which could reduce demand for our seismic data and related services. Furthermore, several federal governmental agencies are conducting reviews and studies to assess adverse impacts that hydraulic fracturing may have on drinking water or groundwater sources or otherwise to evaluate environmental aspects of fracturing activities, including the White House Council on Environmental Quality, the EPA and the U.S. Department of Energy. These studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing, which events could delay or curtail production of oil and natural gas by E&P operators, some of which are our customers, and thus reduce demand for our seismic data and related services. Any such decrease in the demand for our seismic data and related services could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.Economic conditions could adversely affect demand for our seismic data and related services and may increase our credit risk of customer non-payment.Prices for oil and natural gas fluctuate widely. Prolonged or substantial declines in crude oil and/or natural gas prices could result in many oil and gas companies significantly reducing their levels of capital spending, which could result in reduced demand for our seismic data and related services as our customers' operating cash flow decreases and the borrowing bases under their oil and gas reserve-based credit facilities are reduced. Prolonged or substantial declines in commodity prices could also result in decreases in our customers’ liquidity and capital resources which could increase our credit risk of non-payment from such customers.We are dependent on the availability of internally generated cash flow and financing alternatives to cover the costs of acquiring and processing seismic data for our data library that are not underwritten by our customers.We continue to invest additional capital in acquiring and processing new seismic data to expand our data library and as our business grows, we expect these investments to increase. A significant portion of these costs is underwritten by our customers, while the remainder is financed through the use of internally generated cash flow and other financing sources. We may use bank or commercial debt, the issuance of equity or debt securities or any combination thereof to finance these costs. There can be no assurance that our customers will continue to underwrite these costs at historical levels, or that we will have available internally generated funds or will be successful in obtaining sufficient capital through additional financing or other transactions, if and when required on terms acceptable to us, to continue to invest in acquiring new seismic data. Any substantial alteration of or increase in our capitalization through the issuance of debt securities may significantly increase our leverage and decrease our financial flexibility. If we are unable to obtain financing if and when needed, we may be forced to curtail our business objectives and to finance business activities with only internally generated funds as may then be available.15Table of ContentsOur working capital needs are difficult to forecast and may vary significantly, which could require us to borrow under our existing revolving credit facility and/or seek additional financing that we may not be able to obtain on satisfactory terms, or at all.Our working capital needs are difficult to predict with certainty as they fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the level of activity of our business. This difficulty is due primarily to the timing of our projects, our clients' budgetary cycles and our receipt of payment. We may therefore be subject to significant and rapid increases in our working capital needs that could require us to borrow under our existing revolving credit facility and/or seek additional financing sources. Restrictions in our debt agreements may impair our ability to borrow under our existing revolving credit facility and/or obtain other sources of financing, and access to additional sources of financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all.We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, significant amounts of money in acquiring and processing seismic data for our seismic data library without knowing precisely how much of this seismic data we will be able to license or when and at what price we will be able to license such data.We invest significant amounts of money in acquiring and processing seismic data for our seismic data library. By making such investments, we are exposed to the following risks:•We may not fully recover our costs of acquiring and processing seismic data through future licensing of data that we own. The amounts of these data sales are uncertain and depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control.•The timing of these sales is unpredictable and can vary greatly from quarter to quarter. The costs of each survey are capitalized and then amortized over the expected book life of the data. This amortization will affect our earnings and when combined with the sporadic nature of sales, will result in increased earnings volatility.•Regulatory changes that affect companies' ability to drill, either generally or in a specific location where we have acquired seismic data, could materially adversely affect the value of the seismic data contained in our library. Technology changes could also make existing data sets less desirable or obsolete.•The value of our data could be significantly adversely affected if any material adverse change occurs in the general prospects for oil and gas exploration, development and production activities.•The cost estimates upon which we base our pre-commitments of funding could be incorrect, which could result in losses that have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.•Underwriting commitments of funding are subject to the creditworthiness of our clients. In the event that a client refuses or is unable to pay its commitment, we could lose a material amount of money.The cyclical nature of the oil and gas industry can have a significant effect on our revenues and profitability. Historically, oil and natural gas prices, as well as the level of exploration and developmental activity, have fluctuated significantly. These fluctuations have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect our business. We are unable to predict future oil and natural gas prices or the level of oil and gas industry activity. A prolonged low level of activity in the oil and gas industry will likely depress development activity, adversely affecting the demand for our products and services and our financial condition and results of operations.We rely on developing and acquiring proprietary data which we keep confidential.To protect the confidentiality of our proprietary and trade secret information, we require employees, consultants, contractors, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. Our customer data license agreements and acquisition agreements also identify our proprietary, confidential information and require that such proprietary information be kept confidential. While these steps are taken to strictly maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary and trade secret information, it is difficult to ensure that unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure will not occur. If we are unable to maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary, confidential information, we could be materially adversely affected.Our business could be negatively affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions. We face various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable. The potential for such security threats subjects our operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, our implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for our information and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. If any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure or capabilities essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated and 16Table of Contentsinclude, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. These events could damage our reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability for asserted claims.Our business could be adversely affected by the failure of our customers to fulfill their obligations to reimburse us for the underwritten portion of third-party contractor costs.A substantial portion (approximately 55% - 75%) of our seismic acquisition project costs, including third-party project costs, is underwritten by our customers. We target an average of 60% to 65% underwriting levels for new seismic acquisition projects on an aggregate basis. On occasion, when our underwriting customer owns other appealing seismic data that we want to obtain, we may decide to take ownership in this data to cover a portion of the customer’s underwriting obligation. In the event that underwriters for such projects fail to fulfill their obligations with respect to such underwriting commitments, we would continue to be obligated to satisfy our payment obligations to third-party contractors.We rely on third-party contractors to shoot new data.We do not employ seismic crews or own any seismic survey equipment but contract, as needed, multiple third-party contractors with qualified equipment, personnel and expertise to shoot new data. However, any failure by these third-party contractors to meet the requisite industry quality, safety and environmental standards may result in our liability to third parties and have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, if we fail to retain our third-party contractors or obtain replacements on favorable terms or at all, our business and operating results may be materially and adversely affected.We may be held liable for the actions of third-party contractors.We often engage a number of third-party contractors to perform specific services and provide products and qualified personnel in connection with our operations. There can be no assurance that we will not be held liable for the actions or inactions of these contractors. In addition, contractors may cause damage or injury to our personnel and property or third-party personnel or property, which is not fully covered by insurance.Competition for the acquisition of new seismic data is intense.There are a number of geophysical companies that create, market and license seismic data and maintain seismic libraries. Competition for acquisition of new seismic data among geophysical service providers in the United States and Canada historically has been, and we expect will continue to be, intense. Certain competitors have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. These larger and better-financed operators could enjoy an advantage over us in a competitive environment for new data.Our operating results and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to circumstances that are beyond our control.Our operating results and cash flows from operations have in the past, and may in the future, vary in material respects from period to period. Factors that have and could cause variations include (1) timing of the receipt and commencement of contracts for data acquisition, (2) our customers’ budgetary cycles and their effect on the demand for geophysical products and services, (3) seasonal factors, (4) the timing of cash resales and selections of significant geophysical data from our data library, which are not typically made in a linear or consistent pattern and (5) technological or regulatory changes. These revenue fluctuations could produce unexpected adverse operating results in any period.Reduced demand for our seismic data may result in an impairment of the value of our seismic data library.A reduction in demand, future sales or cash flows may result in a requirement to increase amortization rates or record impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of our data library. Such increases or charges, if required, could be material to operating results in the periods in which they are recorded. For purposes of evaluating potential impairment losses, we estimate the future cash flows attributable to a library component by evaluating historical and recent revenue trends, oil and gas prospectivity in particular regions, general economic conditions affecting our customer base, expected changes in technology and other factors that we deem relevant. As a result of these factors, among others, estimations of future cash flows are highly subjective, inherently imprecise and can fluctuate materially from period to period. Accordingly, if conditions change in the future, we may record impairment losses relative to our seismic data library, which could materially affect our results of operations in any particular reporting period.17Table of ContentsFailure to meet cash flow projections may result in goodwill impairment charges.We perform an annual assessment of the recoverability of goodwill. Additionally, we assess goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that such carrying values may not be recoverable. If required to perform a goodwill impairment test, we rely on discounted cash flow analysis, which requires significant judgments and estimates about our future operations, to develop our estimates of fair value. If these projected cash flows change materially, we may be required to record impairment losses relative to goodwill which could be material to our results of operations in any particular reporting period.Our Canadian operations subject us to currency translation risk, which could cause our results to fluctuate significantly from period to period.A portion of our revenues are derived from our Canadian activities and operations. As a result, we translate the results of our Canadian operations and financial condition into U.S. dollars. Therefore, our reported results of operations and financial condition are subject to changes in the exchange rate between the two currencies. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our revenue, expenses and operating margins. Assets and liabilities of Canadian operations are translated from Canadian dollars into U.S. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the relevant balance sheet date, and revenue and expenses of Canadian operations are translated from Canadian dollars into U.S. dollars at exchange rates as of the dates on which they are recognized. Translation adjustments related to assets and liabilities are included in accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholder's equity. Realized gains and losses on translation of the Canadian operations into U.S. dollars are included in net income (loss). Currently, we do not hedge our exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates.We may be unable to attract and retain key employees.Our success depends upon attracting and retaining highly skilled geophysical professionals and other technical personnel. A failure to continue to attract and retain these individuals could adversely affect our ability to compete in the geophysical services industry. We may confront significant and potentially adverse competition for key personnel, particularly during periods of increased demand for geophysical services.Our success also depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of members of our senior management, the loss of whom could adversely affect our business. Senior executives, which include our President and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel, HSSE & SD Senior Vice-President, President of Seitel Data, Ltd. and President of Seitel Canada Ltd. (formerly known as Olympic Seismic Ltd.) have employment agreements with us. We cannot be certain that our senior executives will continue to be employed by us for an indefinite period of time and, if they do, how long they will remain so employed. Our inability to attract and retain key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business properly.Current and future government regulation may negatively impact demand for our products and services and increase our cost of conducting business.The conduct of our business and the demand for our products and services are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, provincial, state and local governmental authorities and agencies in the United States and Canada. We may incur significant costs to attain or maintain compliance with these legal requirements. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations including:•the acquisition of permits before commencing regulated activities; •the limitation or prohibition of seismic activities in environmentally sensitive or protected areas such as wetlands or wilderness areas; and•the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection.Failure to comply with laws, regulations, permits, and Indian First Nations protocol may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. Additionally, these laws and regulations may change as a result of political, economic or social events. Changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy may alter the environment in which we do business and the demand for our products and services and, therefore, may impact our results of operations or increase our liabilities. Current and future laws, regulations and policies concerning hydraulic fracturing activities, emissions of greenhouse gases and the use of renewable energy sources rather than fossil fuels could adversely impact the operations of our customers. Also, future changes in these and other laws and regulations or additional regulations that adversely impact E&P operators, some of whom are our customers, could result in decreased demand for our products and services. Moreover, complying with more stringent regulations could cause an increase in our operating expenses, which could adversely affect our business.18Table of ContentsTechnological changes not available to us could adversely affect our business.New data acquisition or processing technologies may be developed. New and enhanced products and services introduced by one of our competitors may gain market acceptance and, if not available to us, may adversely affect our business.Our internal controls for financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent all possible errors that could occur.Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer evaluate on a quarterly basis our internal controls for financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures, which includes a review of the objectives, design, implementation and effect of the controls in respect of the information generated for use in our periodic reports. In the course of our controls evaluation, we seek to identify data errors, control problems and confirm that appropriate corrective action, including process improvements, are being undertaken. The overall goals of these various evaluation activities are to monitor our internal controls for financial reporting, to monitor our disclosure controls and procedures and to make modifications as necessary. Our intent in this regard is that our internal controls for financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures will be maintained as dynamic systems that change (including with improvements and corrections) as conditions warrant.A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be satisfied. Our management has concluded that our internal controls for financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to give a reasonable assurance that they are effective to achieve their objectives. We cannot provide absolute assurance that we have detected all possible control issues. These inherent limitations include the possibility that judgments in our decision-making could be faulty, and that isolated breakdowns could occur because of simple human error or mistake. The design of our system of controls is based, in part, upon certain assumptions regarding the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed absolutely in achieving our stated goals under all potential future or unforeseeable conditions. In light of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud could occur and not be detected. Breakdowns in our internal controls and procedures could occur in the future, and any such breakdowns could have an adverse effect on our business.RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDEBTEDNESSOur level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations and operate our business.As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $252.7 million of total outstanding indebtedness, including $2.7 million of capital leases. In addition, we have $30.0 million available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility, which had not been drawn on at December 31, 2013. Our 2014 consolidated annual debt service requirements are expected to aggregate approximately $24.2 million. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future.Our level of indebtedness could have negative consequences to us, including:•we may have difficulty satisfying our obligations with respect to our debt;•we may have difficulty obtaining financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes;•we may need to use all, or a substantial portion, of our available cash flow to pay interest and principal on our debt, which will reduce the amount of money available to finance our operations and other business activities;•our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions could increase;•our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in our industry in general could be limited;•our amount of debt and the amount we must pay to service our debt obligations could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;•our customers may react adversely to our significant debt level and seek or develop alternative licensors or suppliers;•we may have insufficient funds, and our debt level may also restrict us from raising the funds necessary to repurchase all of the notes tendered to us upon the occurrence of a change of control, which would constitute an event of default under the notes; and•our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants in our debt instruments which, among other things, limit our ability to incur debt and sell assets, could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects.Our level of indebtedness requires that we use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, which will reduce the availability of cash to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, research and development and other general corporate or business activities, including future acquisitions.19Table of ContentsIn addition, our revolving credit facility bears interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, debt service on our credit facility will rise, which would adversely affect our cash flow. Although we may employ hedging strategies such that a portion of the aggregate principal amount of this credit facility carries a fixed rate of interest, any hedging arrangement put in place may not offer complete protection from this risk. Additionally, the remaining portion of this credit facility may not be hedged and, accordingly, the portion that is not hedged would be subject to changes in interest rates.The indenture governing our $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of 9½% senior notes due 2019 ("the 9½% Senior Notes") contains a number of restrictive covenants, which limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest.The indenture governing our 9½% Senior Notes imposes, and the terms of any future indebtedness may impose, operating and other restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. Such restrictions affect or will affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to:•incur additional indebtedness;•create liens;•pay dividends and make other distributions in respect of our capital stock;•redeem our capital stock;•make investments or certain other restricted payments;•sell certain kinds of assets;•enter into transactions with affiliates; and•effect mergers or consolidations.The restrictions contained in the indenture governing our 9½% Senior Notes could:•limit our ability to plan for or react to market or economic conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans; and•adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest.A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the indenture governing our 9½% Senior Notes. If an event of default occurs, the lenders could elect to:•declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable; or•require us to apply all of our available cash to repay the borrowings.If we were unable to repay or otherwise refinance these borrowings when due, we cannot assure that sufficient assets will remain to repay the 9½% Senior Notes.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.