Item 1A. Risk Factors The duration of the current economic downturn and depressed commodity prices could adversely affect demand for our seismic data and related services and may increase our credit risk of customer non-payment. Many of our customers are independent oil and gas companies and private prospect-generating companies that rely primarily on bank or commercial debt financing or private investments and cash flow from operations to finance their exploration, production, development and field management activities. We believe that the uncertainty surrounding the duration of the economic downturn commencing in late 2008 could result in continued limitation in the availability or increase in the cost of these types of capital. As a result, demand for our seismic data and related services could be adversely affected by these financial market conditions, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. We are unable to predict the severity or 9 duration of any such decrease in demand. Depressed commodity prices could also result in many oil and gas companies significantly reducing their levels of capital spending which could result in reduced demand for our seismic data and related services as our customers’ operating cash flow decreases and the borrowing bases under their oil and gas reserve-based credit facilities are reduced as a consequence of lower commodity prices. We may also face increased credit risk from customers as the ability of some of our customers to pay amounts owed to us may be impaired because of the falling commodity prices and decreases in their liquidity and capital resources. Our industry is cyclical and our business could be adversely affected by the level of capital expenditures by oil and gas companies and by the level and volatility of oil and natural gas prices. Our industry and the oil and gas industry generally are subject to cyclical fluctuations. Demand for our services depends upon spending levels by oil and gas companies for exploration, production, development and field management of oil and natural gas reserves and, in the case of new seismic data creation, the willingness of these companies to forgo ownership in the seismic data. Capital expenditures by oil and gas companies for these activities depend upon several factors, including actual and forecasted prices of oil and natural gas and those companies’ short-term and strategic plans. Oil and natural gas prices in turn depend on local, regional and global events or conditions that affect supply and demand for the relevant commodity. These events or conditions are generally not predictable and include, among other things: • levels of demand for, and production of, oil and natural gas; • worldwide political, military and economic conditions; • weather, including seasonal patterns that affect regional energy demand as well as severe weather events that can disrupt supply; • the level of oil and natural gas reserves; and • government policies regarding adherence to OPEC quotas. Oil and natural gas prices are subject to significant volatility and there can be no assurance that oil and natural gas prices and demand will not decline in the future. Low oil and natural gas prices and demand could result in decreased exploration and development spending by oil and gas companies, which could, in turn, affect our seismic data business. Our customers may adjust their exploration and development spending levels very quickly in response to any material change in oil and natural gas prices. A continued recession in 2010 may lead to further significant fluctuations in demand and pricing for oil and gas or seismic data. Any future decline in oil and natural gas prices, sustained downturn in the oil and gas or seismic data industries, or sustained periods of reduced capital expenditures by oil and gas companies as a result of factors which are beyond our control could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. We are dependent on the availability of internally generated cash flow and financing alternatives to cover the costs of acquiring and processing seismic data for our data library that are not underwritten by our customers. We continue to invest additional capital in acquiring and processing new seismic data to add to our data library and as our business grows, we expect these investments to increase. A significant portion of these costs are underwritten by our customers, while the remainder is financed through the use of internally generated cash flow and other financing sources. We may use bank or commercial debt, the issuance of equity or debt securities or any combination thereof to finance these costs. There can be no assurance that our customers will continue to underwrite these costs at historical levels, or that we will have available internally generated funds or will be successful in obtaining sufficient capital through additional financing or other transactions, if and when required on terms acceptable to us, to continue to invest in acquiring new seismic data. Any substantial alteration of or increase in our capitalization through the issuance of debt securities may significantly increase our leverage and decrease our financial flexibility. If we are unable to obtain financing if and when needed, we may be forced to curtail our business objectives and to finance business activities with only internally generated funds as may then be available. 10 Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations and operate our business. We have a significant amount of leverage and interest expense. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $405.6 million of total outstanding indebtedness, including $3.4 million of capital leases. Our 2010 consolidated annual debt service requirements are expected to aggregate approximately $39.7 million. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our high level of indebtedness could have negative consequences to us, including: • we may have difficulty satisfying our obligations with respect to our debt; • we may have difficulty obtaining financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; • we may need to use all, or a substantial portion, of our available cash flow to pay interest and principal on our debt, which will reduce the amount of money available to finance our operations and other business activities; • our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions could increase; • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in our industry in general could be limited; • our substantial amount of debt and the amount we must pay to service our debt obligations could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • our customers may react adversely to our significant debt level and seek or develop alternative licensors or suppliers; • we may have insufficient funds, and our debt level may also restrict us from raising the funds necessary to repurchase all of the notes tendered to us upon the occurrence of a change of control, which would constitute an event of default under the notes; and • our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt instruments which, among other things, require us to maintain specified financial ratios and limit our ability to incur debt and sell assets, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. Our high level of indebtedness requires that we use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, which will reduce the availability of cash to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, research and development and other general corporate or business activities, including future acquisitions. In addition, our U.S. secured credit facility and our Canadian revolving credit facility bear interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, debt service on our credit facilities will rise, which would adversely affect our cash flow. Although we may employ hedging strategies such that a portion of the aggregate principal amount of these credit facilities carries a fixed rate of interest, any hedging arrangement put in place may not offer complete protection from this risk. Additionally, the remaining portion of these credit facilities may not be hedged and, accordingly, the portion that is not hedged will be subject to changes in interest rates. Our business could be adversely affected by the failure of our customers to fulfill their obligations to reimburse us for the underwritten portion of third-party contractor costs. A substantial portion of our seismic acquisition project costs, including third-party project costs, are underwritten by our customers. We target an average of 70% underwriting levels for new seismic acquisition projects on an aggregate basis. On occasion, when our underwriting customer owns other attractive seismic data that we want to obtain, we may decide to take ownership in this data to cover part of the customer’s underwriting obligation. In the event that underwriters for such projects fail to fulfill their obligations with respect to such underwriting commitments, we would continue to be obligated to satisfy our payment obligations to third-party contractors. 11 Because our business is concentrated in the U.S. Gulf Coast and Canada, it could be adversely affected by economic developments in the oil and gas industry that affect these areas more than others. While we have seismic surveys in other areas, most of the seismic data in our library covers areas along the U.S. Gulf Coast, offshore in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and in Canada. Because of this geographic concentration, our results of operations and our cash flow could be materially and adversely affected by economic events relating primarily to any one of these regions even if conditions in the oil and gas industry worldwide were favorable. Competition for the acquisition of new seismic data is intense. There are a number of geophysical companies that create, market and license seismic data and maintain their own seismic libraries. Competition for acquisition of new seismic data among geophysical service providers historically has been, and we expect will continue to be, intense. Certain competitors have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. These larger and better-financed operators could enjoy an advantage over us in a competitive environment for new data. Our operating results and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to circumstances that are beyond our control. Our operating results and cash flows from operations have in the past, and may in the future, vary in material respects from period to period. Factors that have and could cause variations include (1) timing of the receipt and commencement of contracts for data acquisition, (2) our customers’ budgetary cycles and their effect on the demand for geophysical activities, (3) seasonal factors, (4) the timing of sales of licenses and selections of significant geophysical data from our data library, which are not typically made in a linear or consistent pattern and (5) technological or regulatory changes. These revenue fluctuations could produce unexpected adverse operating results in any period. Reduced demand for our seismic data may result in an impairment of the value of our seismic data library. Reduced demand, future sales or cash flows may result in a requirement to increase amortization rates or record impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of our data library. Such increases or charges, if required, could be material to operating results in the periods in which they are recorded. For purposes of evaluating potential impairment losses, we estimate the future cash flows attributable to a library component by evaluating historical and recent revenue trends, oil and gas prospectivity in particular regions, general economic conditions affecting our customer base, expected changes in technology and other factors that we deem relevant. As a result of these factors, among others, estimations of future cash flows are highly subjective, inherently imprecise and can fluctuate materially from period to period. Accordingly, if conditions change in the future, we may record impairment losses relative to our seismic data library, which could materially affect our results of operations in any particular reporting period. Failure to meet cash flow projections may result in goodwill impairment charges. We perform an annual assessment of the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles. Additionally, we assess goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that such carrying values may not be recoverable. We rely on discounted cash flow analysis, which requires significant judgments and estimates about our future operations, to develop our estimates of fair value. If these projected cash flows change materially, we may be required to record impairment losses relative to goodwill or indefinite lived intangibles which could be material to our results of operations in any particular reporting period. Our Canadian operations subject us to currency translation risk, which could cause our results to fluctuate significantly from period to period. A portion of our revenues are derived from our Canadian activities and operations. As a result, we translate the results of our operations and financial condition of our Canadian operations into U.S. dollars. Therefore, our reported results of operations and financial condition are subject to changes in the exchange rate between the two currencies. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our revenue, expenses and operating margins. Assets and liabilities of Canadian operations are translated from Canadian dollars into U.S. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the relevant balance sheet date, and revenue and expenses of Canadian operations are translated from Canadian dollars into U.S. dollars at exchange rates as of the dates on which they are 12 recognized. Translation adjustments related to assets and liabilities are included in other accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholder’s equity. Realized gains and losses on translation of the Canadian operations into U.S. dollars are included in net income (loss). Currently, we do not hedge our exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates. We may be unable to attract and retain key employees. Our success depends upon attracting and retaining highly skilled geophysical professionals and other technical personnel. A failure to continue to attract and retain these individuals could adversely affect our ability to compete in the geophysical services industry. We may confront significant and potentially adverse competition for key personnel, particularly during periods of increased demand for geophysical services. Our success also depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of members of our senior management, the loss of whom could adversely affect our business. Only our President and Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Operating Officer have employment agreements with us. We cannot be certain that our senior executives will continue to be employed by us for an indefinite period of time and, if they do, how long they will remain so employed. Our inability to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business properly. Current and future government regulation may negatively impact demand for our products and services and increase our cost of conducting business. The conduct of our business and the use of our products and services are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the United States and Canada. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations including: • the acquisition of permits before commencing regulated activities; and • the limitation or prohibition of seismic activities in environmentally sensitive or protected areas such as wetlands or wilderness areas. Failure to comply with laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. Additionally, these laws and regulations may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. Changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy may alter the environment in which we do business and the demand for our products and services and, therefore, may impact our results of operations or increase our liabilities. Changes in these and other laws and regulations or additional regulation could cause the demand for our products to decrease. Moreover, complying with increased or changed regulations could cause our operating expenses to increase, which could adversely affect our business. Technological changes not available to us could adversely affect our business. New data acquisition or processing technologies may be developed. We cannot assure you that new and enhanced products and services introduced by one of our competitors will not gain market acceptance, will be available to us or will not adversely affect us. Our U.S. secured credit facility and the indenture governing our 9.75% Senior Notes contain a number of restrictive covenants which limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. Our U.S. secured credit facility and the indenture governing our 9.75% Senior Notes impose, and the terms of any future indebtedness may impose, operating and other restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. Such restrictions affect or will affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens; • pay dividends and make other distributions in respect of our capital stock; 13 • redeem our capital stock; • make investments or certain other restricted payments; • sell certain kinds of assets; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • effect mergers or consolidations. Our U.S. secured credit facility includes additional covenants, including a requirement that we achieve certain financial and operating results and maintain compliance with a specified financial ratio. Our ability to comply with this ratio may be affected by events beyond our control. The restrictions contained in our U.S. secured credit facility and the indenture governing our 9.75% Senior Notes could: • limit our ability to plan for or react to market or economic conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans; and • adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratio could result in a default under our U.S. secured credit facility and/or the indenture governing our 9.75% Senior Notes. If an event of default occurs under our U.S. secured credit facility, which includes an event of default under the indenture governing the 9.75% Senior Notes, the lenders could elect to: • declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable; • require us to apply all of our available cash to repay the borrowings; or • prevent us from borrowing under our U.S. secured credit facility; any of which could also result in an event of default under the 9.75% Senior Notes. The lenders will also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further financing. If we were unable to repay or otherwise refinance these borrowings when due, our lenders could sell the collateral securing our U.S. secured credit facility, which constitutes substantially all of our and our domestic subsidiaries’ assets. Although holders of the 9.75% Senior Notes could accelerate the 9.75% Senior Notes upon the acceleration of the obligations under our U.S. secured credit facility, we cannot assure you that sufficient assets will remain to repay the 9.75% Senior Notes after we have paid all the borrowings under our U.S. secured credit facility and any other debt. Failure to comply with the SEC’s final judgment of permanent injunction entered on consent against us could adversely affect our business, and could subject us to further SEC investigations, enforcement action, criminal prosecution and significant penalties. We were the subject of a formal investigation by the SEC’s Division of Enforcement. We cooperated fully with the SEC during the course of its investigation, and reached a consensual resolution of the SEC’s civil complaint resulting in its consent to a final judgment of permanent injunction, referred to as the SEC Injunction, being entered on June 16, 2003 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas, Houston Division. The agreement for the entry of the SEC Injunction was without admitting or denying the allegations in the SEC’s complaint, which had alleged violations of the reporting, books and records, internal controls and proxy statement provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the “Exchange Act”) and rules and regulations adopted under the Exchange Act. Our chief executive officer and chief financial officer at the time of the events giving rise to the SEC’s complaint have been replaced. 14 The SEC Injunction, by its terms, permanently restrains and enjoins us from, among other things, (1) filing with the SEC any report under the Exchange Act that contains any untrue statement of a material fact, which omits to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or that omits to disclose any information required to be disclosed, (2) failing to make and keep accurate books, records and accounts, (3) failing to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls and procedures, and (4) soliciting any proxy or consent or authorization in respect of any security registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act in contravention of the SEC’s proxy rules, or making any solicitation by means of any proxy statement, form of proxy, notice of meeting or other communication subject to the SEC’s proxy rules which, at the time and in light of the circumstances under which it is made, is false or misleading with respect to any material fact, or which omits to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Our failure to comply with any of the provisions of the SEC Injunction could adversely affect us. Limitations on our ability to utilize net operating losses and other tax benefits may result in future net operating income being taxable income. Companies which have had a change in ownership, as defined by the Internal Revenue Code, are subject to limitations on certain tax attributes. We underwent a change in ownership for these purposes as a result of the Merger and therefore the use of our net operating losses and certain other tax attributes are subject to certain limitations following the Merger. However, we do not expect a significant impact to our financial position or results of operation as a consequence of the Merger because we expect the limitations to exceed our carryforward attributes. Our internal controls for financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent all possible errors that could occur. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer evaluate on a quarterly basis our internal controls for financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures, which includes a review of the objectives, design, implementation and effect of the controls in respect of the information generated for use in our periodic reports. In the course of our controls evaluation, we seek to identify data errors, control problems and to confirm that appropriate corrective action, including process improvements, were being undertaken. The overall goals of these various evaluation activities are to monitor our internal controls for financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures and to make modifications as necessary. Our intent in this regard is that our internal controls for financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures will be maintained as dynamic systems that change (including with improvements and corrections) as conditions warrant. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be satisfied. Our management has concluded that our internal controls for financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to give a reasonable assurance that they are effective to achieve their objectives. We cannot provide absolute assurance that we have detected all possible control issues. These inherent limitations include the possibility that judgments in our decision-making could be faulty, and that isolated breakdowns could occur because of simple human error or mistake. The design of our system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed absolutely in achieving our stated goals under all potential future or unforeseeable conditions. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud could occur and not be detected. Breakdowns in our internal controls and procedures could occur in the future, and any such breakdowns could have an adverse effect on us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 