ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future results of operations and the other forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Item 7, involve a number of risks and uncertainties. In particular, the statements regarding future goals and strategies, opportunities for growth in certain markets, new product introductions, penetration of new markets, projections of sales revenues, manufacturing costs and operating costs, pricing of our products and raw materials required to manufacture our products, gross margin expectations, relocation and outsourcing of production capacity, capital spending, research and development expenses, the outcome of pending legal proceedings and environmental matters, tax rates, sufficiency of funds to meet our needs including contributions to our defined benefit pension plan, and our plans for future operations, as well as our assumptions relating to the foregoing, are all subject to risks and uncertainties. A number of other factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations. We are subject to all of the business risks facing public companies, including business cycles and trends in the general economy, financial market conditions, demand variations and volatility, potential loss of key personnel, supply chain disruptions, government legislation and regulation, and natural causes. The following list of risk factors is not all-inclusive. Other factors and unanticipated events could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. We believe that the most significant potential risk factors that could adversely impact us are the following: Economic conditions, primarily in the U.S., may adversely affect our served markets, our business, demand for our products, and our results of operations and cash flows Demand for our products, which impacts our revenue and gross profit, is affected by general business and economic conditions as well as by changes in customer order patterns. Adverse developments in business conditions, economic activity, or capital spending levels could result in reduced demand for our products and impair our ability to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. We cannot predict the timing, duration, or strength of any economic recovery or the timing, duration, or severity of a subsequent economic slowdown, worldwide, in the U.S., or in the specific end markets we serve. In the event of a future prolonged slowdown in economic activity, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely and materially affected. Additionally, our stock price could decrease if investors have concerns that our business and financial condition will be negatively impacted by weakening economic conditions.We operate in a highly competitive industry We operate in a competitive industry characterized by periodic changes in technology, product demand, prices and lead times. Our future profitability depends on our ability to successfully identify and react to these changing trends. Specifically, achievement of our sales and profit goals is dependent in part upon our ability to successfully anticipate product demand, to introduce quality products to meet that demand in a timely manner at competitive prices, to gain acceptance of our products in the marketplace, to achieve cost reductions during the product life cycle, and to adapt our existing product platforms in the event of changes in technology. Failure to do so could result in low returns on investment in new products and technologies, a loss of competitive position relative to our peers, obsolete products and technologies, and an adverse impact on our operating results. In addition, price erosion in response to competition in our served markets could have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. Our future sales growth is partially dependent on the successful introduction of new products Achievement of our Company objectives of sales growth of at least 5% on a year-over year basis and gross margins in excess of 35% are in part dependent upon the successful introduction of new products, acceptance of these new products by customers in those markets, and successful cost reduction efforts related to new products. Any delay in introduction of new products, customer acceptance of new products, or cost reduction actions could have an adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations. Changes in technology could reduce demand for our products We believe that our intellectual property is equal or superior to our competitors’ and we do not know of any new technologies that could cause a shift away from digital power electronic solutions in the end markets we serve. However, major advancements in digital power electronic technologies by competitors or the advent of technologies obviating digital power-electronic solutions could have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 11IndexThe loss of one or more major customers could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition We rely on several large customers for a significant portion of our sales. While we have taken actions to diversify our customer base, we have three customers whose purchases from us represented in the aggregate approximately 13% of our net sales in fiscal 2013. The loss of one or more of these customers or significant decreases in these customers' purchase levels could have an adverse effect on our business and on our results of operations. Certain of our competitors have substantially greater resources and greater global reach than us We compete with crane and hoist drive manufacturers and drive system integrators, radio control manufacturers, elevator drive manufacturers and control system integrators, and mining machinery drive builders. The total number of such enterprises with whom we compete directly is believed to be fewer than 100. However, certain of our competitors are significantly larger and have substantially greater resources than we do, and some are global in scope, whereas we currently compete primarily in the North American market. We have significant pension liabilities and funding obligations Our defined benefit pension plan was underfunded as of December 29, 2013, due primarily to reductions in interest rates over the past decade, which impact the discount rate used to estimate the net present value of our pension obligations. Current actuarial estimates indicate that we will be required to make significant contributions to our defined benefit pension plan, which may consume the majority of our cash generated from operations for the next several years. In addition, changes in interest rates, investment returns, mortality assumptions, and other factors could adversely affect the funded status of our pension plan in the future and require that we contribute additional cash to the pension plan over and above the amounts currently estimated. Such volatility could also increase pension expense in periods beyond fiscal 2013. As a result, we may be required to seek additional sources of cash to fund both our operations and our required pension contributions. We may seek additional capital through private or public sales of equity, debt or convertible debt securities, which could have negative effects on our existing investors We may seek to raise additional funding through equity or certain forms of debt financing in the future that could dilute the percentage ownership held by existing stockholders. In addition, new investors may demand rights or privileges that are preferable to, or senior to, those of our existing stockholders, such as interest payments, dividends or warrants, as a condition to completing a transaction that provides us with capital.We may have limited access to additional financing Macroeconomic conditions several years ago led to volatility in security prices, the failure of financial institutions, diminished liquidity and credit availability, and deflation in the valuation of investment vehicles across varied asset classes. In the event capital and credit markets again become illiquid and the availability of funds becomes limited, we could incur increased costs associated with future equity or debt financing transactions. Our ability to access the capital and credit markets may be limited by these or other factors unique to our Company. Limited access to financing opportunities in the future could have a material adverse impact on our ability to fund our operations or meet our corporate obligations. We are subject to credit risk We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers, including risk of bankruptcy, and are subject to losses from uncollectable accounts receivable. If the financial condition of any of our customers deteriorates and impairs their ability to make payments, we could incur future write-offs of accounts receivable that could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. We are reliant on suppliers We purchase raw materials and subassemblies used in our products from third-party suppliers, and also purchase finished goods for resale to customers from third-party subcontractors. If our suppliers or subcontractors cannot meet their commitments to us in terms of price, delivery, or quality, it may negatively impact our ability to meet our commitments to our customers. This could result in disruption of production, delay in shipments to customers, higher material costs, quality issues 12Indexwith our products and damage to customer relationships. In addition, increases in the cost of raw materials purchased from third-party suppliers could negatively impact our gross profit and results of operations. We may face claims of infringement on the intellectual property of others, or others may infringe upon our intellectual property Our future success depends in part on our ability to prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights, as well as our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. We may be required at times to take legal action to protect our proprietary rights and, despite our best efforts, we may be sued for infringing on the patent rights of others. Patent litigation is costly and, even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, we could be adversely affected financially should we be judged to have infringed upon the intellectual property of others. We may suffer losses resulting from legal and environmental issues Our results of operations could be adversely impacted by pending and future litigation, including claims related to, but not limited to, product liability, patent infringement, contracts, employment and labor issues, personal injury, and property damage, including damage to the environment. In some cases, we have agreed to provide indemnification against legal and environmental liabilities and potential liabilities associated with operations that we have divested, including certain motor, generator, lighting ballast, transformer, drive and power supply manufacturing operations. If we are required to make payments under such indemnification obligations, such payments could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Further, we have been indemnified against potential legal and environmental liabilities and potential liabilities associated with operations that we have acquired, including lighting ballast, transformer, capacitor, and crane brake manufacturing operations that were subsequently divested. If not borne by the indemnifying party, such liabilities, if any, could be borne by us and have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.Ordinary transfers of our common stock between shareholders could result in an ownership change as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, limiting our ability to fully utilize our net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. federal tax purposes We had net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards for U.S. federal tax purposes of $227 million as of December 29, 2013. Our NOLs have a carryforward period of 20 years with expiration dates ranging from 2019 to 2033. We anticipate that no federal income tax liability, other than alternative minimum tax, would be recorded if and when we generate U.S. taxable income and such carryforwards are utilized. We periodically evaluate whether ordinary transfers of our common stock between shareholders have resulted in an ownership change as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Based on available information, we have determined that no such ownership change has occurred. If such ownership change had occurred, utilization of the Company’s NOLs would be subject to annual limitation provisions per the Internal Revenue Code and similar state laws. Such annual limitations could defer the utilization of NOL carryforwards and accelerate payment of federal income taxes, and could result in the expiration of a portion of the NOL carryforwards before utilization. An ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position, as we have provided a full valuation allowance against substantially all of our deferred tax assets. Ordinary transfers of our common stock between shareholders in future periods could result in an ownership change in such periods and accordingly, at that time, limit the utilization of our NOLs as described above.13IndexITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 