ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future results of operations and the other forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section titled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," involve a number of risks and uncertainties. In particular, the statements regarding future goals and strategies, new product introductions, penetration of new markets, projections of sales revenues, manufacturing costs and operating costs, pricing of our products and raw materials required to manufacture our products, gross margin expectations, relocation and outsourcing of production capacity, capital spending, research and development expenses, the outcome of pending legal proceedings and environmental matters, tax rates, sufficiency of funds to meet our needs including contributions to our defined benefit pension plan, and our plans for future operations, as well as our assumptions relating to the foregoing, are all subject to risks and uncertainties. A number of other factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations. We are subject to all of the business risks facing public companies, including business cycles and trends in the general economy, financial market conditions, demand variations and volatility, potential loss of key personnel, supply chain disruptions, government legislation and regulation, and natural causes. The following list of risk factors is not all-inclusive. Other factors and unanticipated events could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. We believe that the most significant potential risk factors that could adversely impact us are the following: Economic Conditions and Demand for our Products Demand for our products, which impacts our revenue and gross profit, is affected by general business and economic conditions. Demand for our products is also impacted by changes in customer order patterns, such as changes in inventory levels maintained by customers and the timing of customer purchases. If demand in certain of our served markets deteriorates in subsequent periods, our operating results could be adversely affected and operating losses could occur. Competitive Industry We operate in a competitive industry characterized by periodic changes in technology, product demand, prices and lead times. Our future profitability depends on our ability to successfully identify and react to these changing trends. Specifically, achievement of our sales and profit goals is dependent in part upon our ability to successfully anticipate product demand, to introduce quality products to 7 meet that demand in a timely manner at competitive prices, to gain acceptance of our products in the marketplace, to achieve cost reductions during the product life cycle and to adapt our existing product platforms in the event of changes in technology. Failure to do so could result in low returns on investment in new products and technologies, a loss of competitive position relative to our peers, obsolete products and technologies, and an adverse impact on our operating results. In addition, price erosion in response to competition in our served markets could have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. Dependence on New Products Our expected growth in sales and profits is in part dependent upon the successful introduction of new products for the elevator and alternative energy markets, acceptance of these new products by customers in those markets, and successful cost reduction efforts related to new products. Any delay in introduction of new products, customer acceptance of new products, or cost reduction actions could have an adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations. Dependence on Customers and Credit Risk We rely on several large customers for a significant portion of our sales. While we have taken actions to diversify our customer base, sales to our top three customers represented approximately 19% of our net sales in fiscal 2008, and we have one customer whose purchases represented 10% of our net sales in fiscal 2008. The loss of any such customers or significant decreases in any such customers' levels of purchases could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, we are exposed to the credit risk of our customers, including risk of bankruptcy, and are subject to losses from uncollectible accounts receivable. If the financial condition of any of our customers deteriorates and impairs their ability to make payments, we could incur future write-offs of accounts receivable that could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Reliance on Suppliers We purchase raw materials and subassemblies used in our products from third-party suppliers, and also purchase finished goods for resale to customers from third party subcontractors. If our suppliers or subcontractors cannot meet their commitments to us in terms of price, delivery, or quality, it may negatively impact our ability to meet our commitments to our customers. This could result in disruption of production, delay in shipments to customers, higher material costs, quality issues with our products and damage to customer relationships. In addition, increases in the cost of raw materials purchased from third party suppliers could negatively impact our gross profit and results of operations. Competitive Size We compete with crane and hoist drive manufacturers and drive system integrators, elevator drive manufacturers and control system integrators, mining machinery drive builders, and power inverter builders. The total number of such enterprises with whom we compete directly is believed to be fewer than 100. However, certain of our competitors are significantly larger and have substantially greater resources than we do, and some are global in scope, whereas we currently compete primarily in the North American market. Changes in Technology and Intellectual Property We believe that our intellectual property is equal or superior to our competitors' and we do not know of any new technologies that could cause a shift away from digital power-electronic solutions. However, major advancements in digital power-electronic technologies by competitors or the advent of technologies obviating digital power-electronic solutions could have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 8 Our future success depends in part on our ability to prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights, as well as our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. We may be required at times to take legal action to protect our proprietary rights and, despite our best efforts, we may be sued for infringing on the patent rights of others. Patent litigation is costly and, even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, we could be adversely affected financially should we be judged to have infringed upon the intellectual property of others. Pension Funding Obligations Current actuarial estimates indicate that we will be required to make significant contributions to our defined benefit pension plan. Based upon current projections of the required contribution amounts, our operating results and our financial position, we believe that existing cash balances, amounts available under our revolving credit facility, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to make all required pension contributions. However, if actual future required contributions or operating results differ significantly from current projections, we may be required to seek additional sources of cash to fund required contributions under our pension plan. Legal and Environmental Issues Our results of operations could be adversely impacted by pending and future litigation, including claims related to, but not limited to, product liability, patent infringement, contracts, employment and labor issues, personal injury and property damage, including damage to the environment. In some cases, we have agreed to provide indemnification against legal and environmental liabilities and potential liabilities associated with operations that we have divested, including certain motor, generator, lighting ballast, transformer, drive and power supply manufacturing operations. If we are required to make payments under such indemnification obligations, such payments could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Further, we have been indemnified against potential legal and environmental liabilities and potential liabilities associated with operations that we have acquired, including lighting ballast, transformer, capacitor and crane brake manufacturing operations that were subsequently divested. If not borne by the indemnifiers, such liabilities, if any, could be borne by us and have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 