Item 1A. Risk Factors. Carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. If any of the events or developments described below were actually to occur, NNN’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Loss of revenues from tenants would reduce NNN’s cash flow. NNN’s five largest tenants accounted for an aggregate of approximately 25 percent of NNN’s annual base rent as of December 31, 2007. The default, financial distress or bankruptcy of one or more of NNN’s tenants could cause substantial vacancies among NNN’s Investment Portfolio. Vacancies reduce NNN’s revenues until NNN is able to re-lease the affected properties and could decrease the ultimate sale value of each such vacant property. Upon the expiration of the leases that are currently in place, NNN may not be able to re-lease a vacant property at a comparable lease rate or without incurring additional expenditures in connection with such re-leasing. A significant portion of the source of NNN’s annual base rent is heavily concentrated in a specific industry classification and in specific geographic locations. As of December 31, 2007, an aggregate of approximately 38 percent of NNN’s annual base rent is generated from two retail lines of trade, convenience stores and restaurants, each representing more than 10 percent. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, an aggregate of approximately 32 percent of NNN’s annual base rent is generated from properties in Texas and Florida, each representing more than 10 percent. Any financial hardship and/or changes in these industries or states could have an adverse effect on NNN’s financial results. There are a number of risks inherent in owning real estate and indirect interests in real estate. NNN’s economic performance and the value of its real estate assets are subject to the risk that if NNN’s properties do not generate revenues sufficient to meet its operating expenses, including debt service, NNN’s cash flow and ability to pay distributions to its shareholders will be adversely affected. As a real estate company, NNN is susceptible to the following real estate industry risks, which are beyond its control: • changes in national, regional and local economic conditions and outlook, • decreases in consumer spending and retail sales, 9 Table of Contents • economic downturns in the areas where NNN’s properties are located, • adverse changes in local real estate market conditions, such as an oversupply, reduction in demand or intense competition for tenants, • changes in tenant preferences that reduce the attractiveness of NNN’s properties to tenants, • zoning, regulatory restrictions, or change in taxes, and • changes in interest rates or availability of financing. All of these factors could result in decreases in market rental rates and increases in vacancy rates, which could adversely affect NNN’s results of operations. NNN’s real estate investments are illiquid. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, NNN’s ability to adjust the portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions is limited. Certain significant expenditures generally do not change in response to economic or other conditions, including: (i) debt service (if any), (ii) real estate taxes, and (iii) operating and maintenance costs. This combination of variable revenue and relatively fixed expenditures may result, under certain market conditions, in reduced income from investment. Such reduction in investment income could have an adverse effect on NNN’s financial condition. NNN may be subject to known or unknown environmental liabilities. NNN may acquire a property that contains some level of contamination or potential contamination exists, subject to a determination of the level of risk and potential cost of remediation. Investments in real property create a potential for substantial environmental liability on the part of the owner of such property from the presence or discharge of hazardous substances on the property, regardless of fault. It is NNN's policy, as a part of its acquisition due diligence process, generally to obtain an environmental site assessment for each property. In such cases that NNN intends to acquire real estate where contamination or potential contamination exists, NNN generally requires the seller or tenant to (i) remediate the problem, (ii) indemnify NNN for environmental liabilities, or (iii) agree to other arrangements deemed appropriate by NNN to address environmental conditions at the property. NNN has 70 Investment Properties currently under some level of environmental remediation. In general, the seller, the tenant or an adjacent land owner is responsible for the cost of the environmental remediation for each of these Investment Properties. In the event of a bankruptcy or other inability on the part of these parties to cover these costs, NNN may have to cover the costs of remediation, fines or other environmental liabilities at these and other properties. NNN may also own properties where required remediation has not begun or adverse environmental conditions have not yet been detected. This may require remediation or otherwise subject NNN to liability. NNN cannot assure that (i) it will not be required to undertake or pay for removal or remediation of any contamination of the properties currently or previously owned by NNN, (ii) NNN will not be subject to fines by governmental authorities or litigation, or (iii) the costs of such removal, remediation fines or litigation would not be material. NNN may not be able to successfully execute its acquisition or development strategies. NNN cannot assure that it will be able to implement its investment strategies successfully. Additionally, NNN cannot assure that its property portfolio will expand at all, or if it will expand at any specified rate or to any specified size. In addition, investment in additional real estate assets is subject to a number of risks. Because NNN expects to invest in markets other than the ones in which its current properties are located or properties which may be leased to tenants other than those to which 10 Table of Contents NNN has historically leased properties, NNN will also be subject to the risks associated with investment in new markets or with new tenants that may be relatively unfamiliar to NNN’s management team. NNN’s development activities are subject to without limitation, risks relating to the availability and timely receipt of zoning and other regulatory approvals, the cost and timely completion of construction (including risks from factors beyond NNN’s control, such as weather or labor conditions or material shortages), the risk of finding tenants for the properties and the ability to obtain both construction and permanent financing on favorable terms. These risks could result in substantial unanticipated delays or expenses and, under certain circumstances, could prevent completion of development activities once undertaken or provide a tenant the opportunity to terminate a lease. Any of these situations may delay or eliminate proceeds or cash flows NNN expects from these projects, which could have an adverse effect on NNN’s financial condition. NNN may not be able to dispose of properties consistent with its operating strategy. NNN may be unable to sell properties targeted for disposition (including its Inventory Properties) due to adverse market conditions. This may adversely affect, among other things, NNN’s ability to sell under favorable terms, execute its operating strategy, achieve target earnings or returns, retire debt or pay dividends. A change in the assumptions used to determine the value of commercial mortgage residual interests could adversely affect NNN’s financial position. As of December 31, 2007, the Residuals had a carrying value of $24,340,000. The value of these Residuals is based on discount rate, loan loss, prepayment speed and interest rate assumptions made by NNN to determine their value. If actual experience differs materially from these assumptions, the actual future cash flow could be less than expected and the value of the Residuals, as well as NNN’s earnings, could decline. NNN may suffer a loss in the event of a default or bankruptcy of a borrower. If a borrower defaults on a mortgage, structured finance loan or other loan made by NNN, and does not have sufficient assets to satisfy the loan, NNN may suffer a loss of principal and interest. In the event of the bankruptcy of a borrower, NNN may not be able to recover against all of the assets of the borrower, or the assets of the borrower may not be sufficient to satisfy the balance due on the loan. In addition, certain of NNN’s loans may be subordinate to other debt of a borrower. These investments are typically loans secured by a borrower’s pledge of its ownership interests in the entity that owns the real estate or other assets. These agreements are typically subordinated to senior loans secured by other loans encumbering the underlying real estate or assets. Subordinated positions are generally subject to a higher risk of nonpayment of principal and interest than the more senior loans. As of December 31, 2007, mortgages and notes receivables had an outstanding principal balance of $51,556,000 and the structured finance investments had an outstanding principal balance of $14,359,000. If a borrower defaults on the debt senior to NNN’s loan, or in the event of the bankruptcy of a borrower, NNN’s loan will be satisfied only after the borrower’s senior creditors’ claims are satisfied. Where debt senior to NNN’s loans exists, the presence of intercreditor arrangements may limit NNN’s ability to amend loan documents, assign the loans, accept prepayments, exercise remedies and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. Bankruptcy proceedings and litigation can significantly increase the time needed for NNN to acquire underlying collateral in the event of a default, during which time the collateral may decline in value. In addition, there are significant costs and delays associated with the foreclosure process. 11 Table of Contents Certain provisions of the leases or loan agreements may be unenforceable. NNN’s rights and obligations with respect to its leases, structured finance loans, mortgage loans or other loans are governed by written agreements. A court could determine that one or more provisions of an agreement are unenforceable, such as a particular remedy, a loan prepayment provision or a provision governing NNN’s security interest in the underlying collateral of a borrower. NNN could be adversely impacted if this were to happen with respect to an asset or group of assets. Property ownership through joint ventures and partnerships could limit NNN’s control of those investments. Joint ventures or partnerships involve risks not otherwise present for direct investments by NNN. It is possible that NNN’s co-venturers or partners may have different interests or goals than NNN at any time and they may take actions contrary to NNN’s requests, policies or objectives, including NNN’s policy with respect to maintaining its qualification as a REIT. Other risks of joint venture investments include impasses on decisions, because no single co-venturer or partner has full control over the joint venture or partnership. Additionally, the partner may become insolvent or bankrupt. Competition with numerous other REITs, commercial developers, real estate limited partnerships and other investors may impede NNN’s ability to grow. NNN may not be in a position or have the opportunity in the future to complete suitable property acquisitions or developments on advantageous terms due to competition for such properties with others engaged in real estate investment activities. NNN’s inability to successfully acquire or develop new properties may affect NNN’s ability to achieve anticipated return on investment, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations. Uninsured losses may adversely affect NNN’s ability to pay outstanding indebtedness. NNN’s properties are generally covered by comprehensive liability, fire, flood, and extended coverage. NNN believes that the insurance carried on its properties is adequate in accordance with industry standards. There are, however, types of losses (such as from hurricanes, wars or earthquakes) which may be uninsurable, or the cost of insuring against these losses may not be economically justifiable. If an uninsured loss occurs or a loss exceeds policy limits, NNN could lose both its invested capital and anticipated revenues from the property, whereby reducing NNN’s cash flow. Acts of violence, terrorist attacks or war may affect the markets in which NNN operates and NNN’s results of operations. Terrorist attacks may negatively affect NNN's operations. There can be no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or United States businesses. These attacks may directly impact NNN’s physical facilities or the businesses of its tenants. The United States is engaged in armed conflict, which could have an impact on NNN’s tenants. The consequences of armed conflict are unpredictable, and NNN may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on its business. More generally, any of these events or threats of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial 12 Table of Contents markets and economies. They also could result in, or cause a deepening of, economic recession in the United States or abroad. Any of these occurrences could have a significant adverse impact on NNN’s financial condition or results of operations. Vacant properties or bankrupt tenants could adversely affect NNN. As of December 31, 2007, NNN owned 12 vacant, unleased Investment Properties, which accounted for approximately two percent of the total gross leasable area of NNN’s Investment Portfolio, in addition to three vacant land parcels. NNN is actively marketing these properties for sale or lease but may not be able to sell or lease these properties on favorable terms or at all. The lost revenues and increased property expenses resulting from the rejection by any bankrupt tenant of any of their respective leases with NNN could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity and results of operations of NNN if NNN is unable to re-lease the Investment Properties at comparable rental rates and in a timely manner. Less than one percent of the total gross leasable area of NNN’s Investment Portfolio is leased to three tenants that have filed a voluntary petition for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. As a result, these tenants have the right to reject or affirm their lease with NNN. The amount of debt NNN has and the restrictions imposed by that debt could adversely affect NNN’s business and financial condition. As of December 31, 2007, NNN had total mortgage debt and secured notes payable outstanding of approximately $39,480,000, total unsecured notes payable of $890,790,000 and $129,800,000 outstanding on the Credit Facility. NNN’s organizational documents do not limit the level or amount of debt that it may incur. If NNN incurs additional indebtedness and permits a higher degree of leverage, debt service requirements would increase and could adversely affect NNN’s financial condition and results of operations, as well as NNN’s ability to pay principal and interest on the outstanding indebtedness or dividends to its stockholders. In addition, increased leverage could increase the risk that NNN may default on its debt obligations. The Credit Facility contains financial covenants that could limit the amount of distributions to NNN’s common and preferred stockholders. The amount of debt outstanding at any time could have important consequences to NNN’s stockholders. For example, it could: • require NNN to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, real estate investments and other appropriate business opportunities that may arise in the future, • increase NNN’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, • limit NNN’s ability to obtain any additional financing it may need in the future for working capital, debt refinancing, capital expenditures, real estate investments, development or other general corporate purposes, • make it difficult to satisfy NNN’s debt service requirements, • limit NNN’s ability to pay dividends on its outstanding common and preferred stock, • limit NNN’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the factors that affect the profitability of its business, and • limit NNN’s flexibility in conducting its business, which may place NNN at a disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt or debt with less restrictive terms. 13 Table of Contents NNN’s ability to make scheduled payments of principal or interest on its debt, or to refinance such debt will depend primarily on its future performance, which to a certain extent is subject to the creditworthiness of its tenants, competition, as well as economic, financial, and other factors beyond its control. There can be no assurance that NNN’s business will continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service its debt or meet its other cash needs. If NNN is unable to generate sufficient cash flow from its business, it may be required to refinance all or a portion of its existing debt, sell assets or obtain additional financing to meet its debt obligations and other cash needs. NNN cannot assure you that any such refinancing, sale of assets or additional financing would be possible on terms and conditions, including but not limited to the interest rate, which NNN would find acceptable. NNN is obligated to comply with financial and other covenants in its debt that could restrict its operating activities, and the failure to comply with such covenants could result in defaults that accelerate the payment under its debt. NNN’s unsecured debt contains various restrictive covenants which include, among others, provisions restricting NNN’s ability to: • incur or guarantee additional debt, • make certain distributions, investments and other restricted payments, including dividend payments on its outstanding common and preferred stock, • limit the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make payments to NNN, • enter into transactions with certain affiliates, • create certain liens, and • consolidate, merge or sell NNN’s assets. NNN’s secured debt generally contains customary covenants, including, among others, provisions: • relating to the maintenance of the property securing the debt, • restricting its ability to sell, assign or further encumber the properties securing the debt, • restricting its ability to incur additional debt, • restricting its ability to amend or modify existing leases, and • relating to certain prepayment restrictions. NNN’s ability to meet some of the covenants in its debt, including covenants related to the condition of the property or payment of real estate taxes, may be dependent on the performance by NNN’s tenants under their leases. In addition, certain covenants in NNN’s debt, including its Credit Facility, require NNN, among other things, to: • maintain certain maximum leverage ratios, • maintain certain minimum interest and debt service coverage ratios, • limit dividends declared and paid to NNN’s common and preferred stockholders, and • limit investments in certain types of assets. 14 Table of Contents The market value of NNN’s equity and debt securities could be substantially affected by various factors. As with other publicly traded securities, the market price of NNN’s equity and debt securities depends on various factors, which may change from time-to-time and may be unrelated to NNN’s operating performance or prospects. These factors include among many: • general economic and financial market conditions, • level and trend of interest rates, • NNN’s financial condition and performance, • market perception of NNN compared to other REITs, and • market perception of REITs compared to other investment sectors. NNN’s failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes could result in significant tax liability. NNN intends to operate in a manner that will allow NNN to continue to qualify as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”). NNN believes it has been organized as, and its past and present operations qualify NNN as a REIT. However, the Internal Revenue Service, (“IRS”) could successfully assert that NNN is not qualified as such. In addition, NNN may not remain qualified as a REIT in the future. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within NNN’s control. Furthermore, new tax legislation, administrative guidance or court decisions, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for NNN to qualify as a REIT. If NNN fails to qualify as a REIT, it would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing taxable income and would become subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. In this event, NNN could be subject to potentially significant tax liabilities and penalties. Unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, NNN would also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which the qualification was lost. Even if NNN maintains its REIT status, NNN may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on its income and property. Even if NNN remains qualified as a REIT, NNN may face other tax liabilities that reduce operating results and cash flow. Even if NNN remains qualified for taxation as a REIT, NNN may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on its income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease earnings and cash available for distribution to stockholders. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, NNN holds some of its assets through the TRS. 15 Table of Contents Adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes could reduce the NNN’s earnings, cash flow and market price of our common stock. At any time, the federal and state income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may change. Any such changes may have retroactive effect, and could adversely affect NNN or its stockholders. For example, legislation enacted in 2003 and extended in 2006 generally reduced the federal income tax rate on most dividends paid by corporations to individual investors to a maximum of 15 percent (through 2010). REIT dividends, with limited exceptions, will not benefit from the rate reduction, because a REIT’s income generally is not subject to corporate level tax. As such, this legislation could cause shares in non-REIT corporations to be a more attractive investment to individual investors than shares in REITs, and could have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock. Changes in accounting pronouncements could adversely impact NNN reported financial performance. Accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how NNN records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the Commission, who create and interpret appropriate accounting standards, may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of its financial statements. These changes could have a material impact on NNN’s reported financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, NNN could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in restating prior period financial statements. Compliance with REIT requirements, including distribution requirements, may limit NNN’s flexibility and negatively affect NNN’s operating decisions. To maintain its status as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, NNN must meet certain requirements, on an on-going basis, including requirements regarding its sources of income, the nature and diversification of its assets, the amounts NNN distributes to its stockholders and the ownership of its shares. NNN may also be required to make distributions to its stockholders when it does not have funds readily available for distribution or at times when NNN’s funds are otherwise needed to fund capital expenditures or to fund debt service requirements. NNN generally will not be subject to federal income taxes on amounts distributed to stockholders, providing it distributes 100 percent of its REIT taxable income and meets certain other requirements for qualifying as a REIT. For each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2007, NNN believes it has qualified as a REIT. Notwithstanding NNN’s qualification for taxation as a REIT, NNN is subject to certain state taxes on its income and real estate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 16 Table of Contents 