Item 1A. Risk Factors. Carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. If any of the events or developments described below were actually to occur, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Loss of revenues from tenants would reduce the Company’s cash flow. The Company’s five largest tenants accounted for an aggregate of approximately 23 percent of the Company’s annual base rent as of December 31, 2006. The default, financial distress or bankruptcy of one or more of the Company’s tenants could cause substantial vacancies among the Company’s Investment Portfolio. Vacancies reduce the Company’s revenues until the Company is able to re-lease the affected properties and could decrease the ultimate sale value of each such vacant property. Upon the expiration of the leases that are currently in place, the Company may not be able to re-lease a vacant property at a comparable lease rate or without incurring additional expenditures in connection with such re-leasing. A significant portion of the source of the Company’s annual base rent is heavily concentrated in a specific industry classification and in specific geographic locations. As of December 31, 2006, an aggregate of approximately 33 percent of the Company’s annual base rent is generated from two retail lines of trade, convenience stores and restaurants, each representing more than 10 percent. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, an aggregate of approximately 36 percent of the Company’s annual base rent is generated from properties in Texas and Florida, each representing more than 10 percent. Any financial hardship and/or changes in these industries or states could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial results. 8 Table of Contents There are a number of risks inherent in owning real estate and indirect interests in real estate. Factors beyond the Company’s control affect the Company’s performance and value. Changes in national, regional and local economic and market conditions may affect the Company’s economic performance and the value of the Company’s real estate assets. Local real estate market conditions may include excess supply and intense competition for tenants, including competition based on rental rates and attractiveness and location of the property. In addition, other factors may adversely affect the performance and value of the Company’s properties, including (i) changes in laws and governmental regulations, including those governing usage, zoning and taxes; (ii) changes in interest rates; and (iii) the availability of financing. The Company’s real estate investments are illiquid. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, the Company’s ability to adjust the portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions is limited. Certain significant expenditures generally do not change in response to economic or other conditions, including: (i) debt service (if any), (ii) real estate taxes, and (iii) operating and maintenance costs. This combination of variable revenue and relatively fixed expenditures may result, under certain market conditions, in reduced income from investment. Such reduction in investment income could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. The Company may be subject to unknown environmental liabilities. The Company may acquire a property that contains some level of contamination or potential contamination exists, subject to a determination of the level of risk and potential cost of remediation. Investments in real property create a potential for substantial environmental liability on the part of the owner of such property from the presence or discharge of hazardous substances on the property, regardless of fault. It is the Company’s policy, as a part of its acquisition due diligence process, generally to obtain an environmental site assessment for each property. In such cases that the Company intends to acquire real estate where contamination or potential contamination exists, the Company generally requires the seller or tenant to (i) remediate the problem, (ii) indemnify the Company for environmental liabilities, or (iii) agree to other arrangements deemed appropriate by the Company to address environmental conditions at the property. The Company has 25 Investment Properties currently under some level of environmental remediation. In general, the seller, the tenant or an adjacent land owner is responsible for the cost of the environmental remediation for each of these Investment Properties. In the event of a bankruptcy or other inability on the part of these parties to cover these costs, the Company may have to cover the costs of remediation, fines or other environmental liabilities at these and other properties. The Company may also own properties where required remediation has not begun or adverse environmental conditions have not yet been detected. This may require remediation or otherwise subject the Company to liability. The Company cannot assure that (i) it will not be required to undertake or pay for removal or remediation of any contamination of the properties currently or previously owned by the Company, (ii) the Company will not be subject to fines by governmental authorities or litigation, or (iii) the costs of such removal, remediation fines or litigation would not be material. The Company may not be able to successfully execute its acquisition or development strategies. The Company cannot assure that it will be able to implement its investment strategies successfully. Additionally, the Company cannot assure that its property portfolio will expand at all, or if it will 9 Table of Contents expand at any specified rate or to any specified size. In addition, investment in additional real estate assets is subject to a number of risks. Because the Company expects to invest in markets other than the ones in which its current properties are located or which may be leased to tenants other than those to which the Company has historically leased properties, the Company will also be subject to the risks associated with investment in new markets or with new tenants that may be relatively unfamiliar to the Company’s management team. The Company’s development activities are subject to without limitation, risks relating to the availability and timely receipt of zoning and other regulatory approvals, the cost and timely completion of construction (including risks from factors beyond the Company’s control, such as weather or labor conditions or material shortages), the risk of finding tenants for the properties and the ability to obtain both construction and permanent financing on favorable terms. These risks could result in substantial unanticipated delays or expenses and, under certain circumstances, could prevent completion of development activities once undertaken or provide a tenant the opportunity to terminate a lease. Any of these situations delay or eliminate proceeds or cash flows the Company expects from these projects, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. The Company may not be able to dispose of properties consistent with its operating strategy. The Company may be unable to sell properties targeted for disposition (including its Inventory Properties) at a profit if interest rates increase, or adverse market conditions exist, thereby, rendering the Company unable to sell these properties. A change in the assumptions used to determine the value of mortgage residual interests could adversely affect the Company’s financial position. As of December 31, 2006, the Residuals had a carrying value of $31,512,000. The value of these Residuals is based on delinquency, loan loss, prepayment and interest rate assumptions made by the Company to determine their value. If actual experience differs materially from these assumptions, the actual future cash flow could be less than expected and the value of the Residuals, as well as the Company’s earnings, could decline. The Company may suffer a loss in the event of a default or bankruptcy of a structured finance loan borrower. If a borrower defaults on a structured finance loan and does not have sufficient assets to satisfy the loan, the Company may suffer a loss of principal and interest. In the event of the bankruptcy of a borrower, the Company may not be able to recover against all of the assets of the borrower, or the assets of the borrower may not be sufficient to satisfy the balance due on the loan. In addition, certain of the Company’s loans may be subordinate to other debt of a borrower. The structured finance agreements are typically loans secured by a borrower’s pledge of its ownership interests in the entity that owns the real estate. These agreements are typically subordinated to senior loans secured by first mortgages encumbering the underlying real estate. Subordinated positions are generally subject to a higher risk of nonpayment of principal and interest than the more senior loans. As of December 31, 2006, the structured finance investments had an outstanding principal balance of $13,917,000. If a borrower defaults on the debt senior to the Company’s loan, or in the event of the bankruptcy of a borrower, the Company’s loan will be satisfied only after the borrower’s senior creditors’ claims are satisfied. Where debt senior to the Company’s loans exists, the presence of intercreditor arrangements may limit the Company’s ability to amend loan documents, assign the loans, accept prepayments, exercise remedies and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. 10 Table of Contents Bankruptcy proceedings and litigation can significantly increase the time needed for the Company to acquire underlying collateral in the event of a default, during which time the collateral may decline in value. In addition, there are significant costs and delays associated with the foreclosure process. Certain provisions of the leases or structured finance loan agreements may be unenforceable. The Company’s rights and obligations with respect to its leases or structured finance loans are governed by written agreements. A court could determine that one or more provisions of an agreement are unenforceable, such as a particular remedy, a loan prepayment provision or a provision governing the Company’s security interest in the underlying collateral of a borrower. The Company could be adversely impacted if this were to happen with respect to an asset or group of assets. Property ownership through joint ventures and partnerships could limit the Company’s control of those investments. Joint ventures or partnerships involve risks not otherwise present for direct investments by the Company. It is possible that the Company’s co-venturers or partners may have different interests or goals than the Company at any time and they may take actions contrary to the Company’s requests, policies or objectives, including the Company’s policy with respect to maintaining its qualification as a REIT. Other risks of joint venture investments include impasses on decisions, because no single co-venturer or partner has full control over the joint venture or partnership. Competition with numerous other REITs, commercial developers, real estate limited partnerships and other investors may impede the Company’s ability to grow. The Company may not be in a position or have the opportunity in the future to make suitable property acquisitions on advantageous terms due to competition for such properties with others engaged in real estate investment activities. The Company’s inability to successfully acquire new properties may affect the Company’s ability to achieve anticipated return on investment, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations. Uninsured losses may adversely affect the Company’s ability to pay outstanding indebtedness. The Company’s properties are generally covered by comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended coverage and business interruption insurance. The Company believes that the insurance carried on its properties is adequate in accordance with industry standards. There are, however, types of losses (such as from hurricanes, wars or earthquakes) which may be uninsurable, or the cost of insuring against these losses may not be economically justifiable. If an uninsured loss occurs, the Company could lose both the invested capital in and anticipated revenues from the property. In that event, the Company’s cash flow could be reduced. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in New York City and Washington, D.C., on September 11, 2001, and other acts of violence or war may affect the markets in which the Company operates and the Company’s results of operations. Terrorist attacks may negatively affect the Company’s operations. There can be no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or United States businesses. These attacks may directly impact the Company’s physical facilities or the businesses of the Company’s tenants. 11 Table of Contents Also, the United States has been engaged in armed conflict, which could have an impact on the Company’s tenants. The consequences of armed conflict are unpredictable, and the Company may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on its business. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economies. They also could result in, or cause a deepening of, economic recession in the United States or abroad. Any of these occurrences could have a significant adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Vacant properties or bankrupt tenants could adversely affect the Company. As of December 31, 2006, the Company owned nine vacant, unleased Investment Properties, which accounted for approximately two percent of the total gross leasable area of the Company’s Investment Portfolio and four unleased land parcels. The Company is actively marketing these properties for sale or lease but may not be able to sell or lease these properties on favorable terms or at all. The lost revenues and increased property expenses resulting from the rejection by any bankrupt tenant of any of their respective leases with the Company could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity and results of operations of the Company if the Company is unable to re-lease the Investment Properties at comparable rental rates and in a timely manner. Less than one percent of the total gross leasable area of the Company’s Investment Portfolio is leased to one tenant that has filed a voluntary petition for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. As a result, the tenant has the right to reject or affirm its lease with the Company. The amount of debt the Company has and the restrictions imposed by that debt could adversely affect the Company’s business and financial condition. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had total mortgage debt and secured notes payable outstanding of approximately $60,392,000, total unsecured notes payable of $662,304,000 and $28,000,000 outstanding on the Credit Facility. The Company’s organizational documents do not limit the level or amount of debt that it may incur. If the Company incurs additional indebtedness and permits a higher degree of leverage, debt service requirements would increase and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, as well as the Company’s ability to pay principal and interest on the outstanding indebtedness or dividends to its stockholders. In addition, increased leverage could increase the risk that the Company may default on its debt obligations. The Credit Facility contains financial covenants that could limit the amount of distributions to the Company’s common and preferred stockholders. The amount of debt outstanding at any time could have important consequences to the Company’s stockholders. For example, it could: • require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on Company debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, real estate investments and other appropriate business opportunities that may arise in the future; • limit the Company’s ability to obtain any additional financing it may need in the future for working capital, debt refinancing, capital expenditures, real estate investments, development or other general corporate purposes; • make it difficult to satisfy the Company’s debt service requirements; 12 Table of Contents • limit the Company’s ability to pay dividends on its outstanding common and preferred stock; • require the Company to dedicate increased amounts of cash flow from operations to payments on its variable rate, unhedged debt if interest rates rise; • limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the factors that affect the profitability of its business; and • limit the Company’s flexibility in conducting its business, which may place the Company at a disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt or debt with less restrictive terms. The Company’s ability to make scheduled payments of principal or interest on its debt, or to refinance such debt will depend primarily on its future performance, which to a certain extent is subject to the creditworthiness of its tenants, competition, as well as economic, financial, and other factors beyond its control. There can be no assurance that the Company’s business will continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service its debt or meet its other cash needs. If the Company is unable to generate this cash flow from its business, it may be required to refinance all or a portion of its existing debt, sell assets or obtain additional financing to meet its debt obligations and other cash needs. The Company cannot assure you that any such refinancing, sale of assets or additional financing would be possible on terms and conditions, including but not limited to the interest rate, which the Company would find acceptable. The Company is obligated to comply with financial and other covenants in its debt that could restrict its operating activities, and the failure to comply with such covenants could result in defaults that accelerate the payment under its debt. The Company’s unsecured debt contains various restrictive covenants which include, among others, provisions restricting the Company’s ability to: • incur or guarantee additional debt; • make certain distributions, investments and other restricted payments, including dividend payments on its outstanding common and preferred stock; • limit the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make payments to the Company; • enter into transactions with certain affiliates; • create certain liens; and • consolidate, merge or sell the Company’s assets. The Company’s secured debt generally contains customary covenants, including, among others, provisions: • relating to the maintenance of the property securing the debt; • restricting its ability to sell, assign or further encumber the properties securing the debt; • restricting its ability to incur additional debt; • restricting its ability to amend or modify existing leases; and • relating to certain prepayment restrictions. 13 Table of Contents The Company’s ability to meet some of the covenants in its debt, including covenants related to the condition of the property or payment of real estate taxes, may be dependent on the performance by the Company’s tenants under their leases. In addition, certain covenants in the Company’s debt, including its Credit Facility, require the Company and its subsidiaries, among other things, to: • maintain certain maximum leverage ratios; • maintain certain minimum interest and debt service coverage ratios; • limit dividends declared and paid to the Company’s common and preferred stockholders; and • limit investments in certain types of assets. The Company’s failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes could result in significant tax liability. The Company intends to operate in a manner that will allow the Company to continue to qualify as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”). The Company believes it has been organized as, and its past and present operations qualify the Company as a REIT. However, the IRS could successfully assert that the Company is not qualified as such. In addition, the Company may not remain qualified as a REIT in the future. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within the Company’s control. If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT, it would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing taxable income and would become subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. In this event, the Company could be subject to potentially significant tax liabilities. Unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, the Company would also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which the qualification was lost. Even if the Company maintains its REIT status, the Company may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on its income and property. Compliance with REIT requirements, including distribution requirements, may limit the Company’s flexibility and negatively affect the Company’s operating decisions. To maintain its status as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Company must meet certain requirements, on an on-going basis, including requirements regarding its sources of income, the nature and diversification of its assets, the amounts the Company distributes to its stockholders and the ownership of its shares. The Company may also be required to make distributions to its stockholders when it does not have funds readily available for distribution or at times when the Company’s funds are otherwise needed to fund capital expenditures or to fund debt service requirements. The Company generally will not be subject to federal income taxes on amounts distributed to stockholders, providing it distributes 100 percent of its REIT taxable income and meets certain other requirements for qualifying as a REIT. For each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2006, the Company believes it has qualified as a REIT. Notwithstanding the Company’s qualification for taxation as a REIT, the Company is subject to certain state taxes on its income and real estate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 14 Table of Contents 