Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows, and financial condition. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our product sales are significantly affected by education funding, which is outside of our control. Our sales and/or growth in our sales would be adversely affected by a recessionary economy characterized by decreased state and local revenues which in turn cause decreased funding for education. Our sales are significantly impacted by the level of education spending primarily in North America, which, in turn, is a function of the general economic environment. In a recessionary economy, state and local revenues decline, restricting funding for K-12 education spending which typically leads to a decrease in demand for school furniture. Geopolitical uncertainties, terrorist attacks, acts of war, natural disasters, increases in energy and other costs or combinations of such factors and other factors that are outside of our control could at any time have a significant effect on the economy, government revenues, and allocations of government spending. The occurrence of any of these or similar events in the future could cause demand for our products to decline or competitive pricing pressures to increase, either or both of which would adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. We may have difficulty increasing or maintaining our prices as a result of price competition, which could lower our profit margins. Our competitors may develop new services or product designs that give them an advantage over us in making future sales. Furniture companies in the education market compete on the basis of value, service, product offering and product assortment price, and track record of dependable delivery. Since our competitors offer products that are similar to ours, we face significant price competition, which tends to intensify during an industry downturn. This price competition impacts our ability to implement price increases or, in some cases, such as during an industry downturn, maintain prices, which could lower our profit margins. Additionally, our competitors may develop new product designs that achieve a high level of customer acceptance, which could give them a competitive advantage over us in making future sales. Our efforts to introduce new products that meet customer requirements may not be successful, which could limit our sales growth or cause our sales to decline. To keep pace with industry trends, such as changes in education curriculum and increases in the use of technology, and with evolving regulatory and industry requirements, including environmental, health, safety and similar standards for the education environment and for product performance, we must periodically introduce new products. The introduction of new products requires the coordination of the design, manufacturing and marketing of such products, which may be affected by factors beyond our control. The design and engineering of certain of our new products can take up to a year or more, and further time may be required to achieve client acceptance. Accordingly, the launch of any particular product may be later or less successful than we originally anticipated. Difficulties or delays in introducing new products or lack of customer acceptance of new products could limit our sales growth or cause our sales to decline. We may not be able to manage our business effectively if we are unable to retain our experienced management team or recruit other key personnel. The success of our operations is highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and upon the ability of our senior management and other key employees to implement our business strategy. We believe there are only a limited number of qualified executives in the industry in which we compete. The loss of the services of key members of our management team could seriously harm our efforts to successfully implement our business strategy. 11 Table of Contents The majority of our sales are made under annual contracts, which limit our ability to raise prices during a given year in response to increases in costs. We commit to annual contracts that determine selling prices for goods and services for periods of one year, and occasionally longer. If the costs of providing our products or services increase, we cannot be certain that we will be able to implement corresponding increases in our sales prices for such products or services in order to offset such increased costs. Significant cost increases in providing either the services or product during a given contract period could therefore lower our profit margins. We are dependent on the pricing and availability of raw materials and components, and price increases and unavailability of raw materials and components could lower sales, increase our cost of goods sold and reduce our profits and margins. We require substantial amounts of raw materials and components, which we purchase from outside sources. Raw materials comprised our single largest total cost for the years ended January 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. Steel, plastics and wood related materials are the main raw materials used in the manufacture of our products. The prices of plastics are sensitive to the cost of oil, which is used in the manufacture of plastics, and oil prices have increased significantly during 2005. The cost and availability of steel are subject to worldwide supply and demand, and the ability to import steel can be subject to political considerations. The cost and availability of steel has been volatile in recent years. Contracts with most of our suppliers are short-term. These suppliers may not continue to provide raw materials and components to us at attractive prices, or at all, and we may not be able to obtain the raw materials we need in the future from these or other providers on the scale and within the time frames we require. Moreover, we do not carry significant inventories of raw materials, components or finished goods that could mitigate an interruption or delay in the availability of raw materials and components. Any failure to obtain raw materials and components on a timely basis, or any significant delays or interruptions in the supply of raw materials, could prevent us from being able to manufacture products ordered by our clients in a timely fashion, which could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our sales to decline. We are affected by the cost of energy and increases in energy prices could reduce our margins and profits. The profitability of our operations is sensitive to the cost of energy through our transportation costs, the costs of petroleum-based materials, like plastics, and the costs of operating our manufacturing facilities. If the price of petroleum-based products, the cost of operating our manufacturing facilities and our transportation costs continue to increase, these could have a negative impact on our gross margins and profitability. Approximately 30% of our sales are priced under one contract, under which we are the exclusive supplier of classroom furniture. A significant portion of our sales are priced by a nationwide price list and contract that allows schools to purchase furniture without preparing bids. Although Virco sells direct to hundreds of individual schools and school districts, and these schools and school districts can purchase our products and services under several bids and contracts available to them, nearly 30% of Virco’s sales were priced under this contract. If Virco were to lose its exclusive supplier status under this contract, and other manufacturers were allowed to sell under this contract, it could cause our sales or growth in sales to decline. We operate in a seasonal business, and require significant amounts of working capital through our existing credit facility to fund acquisitions of inventory, fund expenses for freight and installation, and finance receivables during the summer delivery season. Restrictions imposed by the terms of our existing credit facility may limit our operating and financial flexibility. Our credit facility prevents us from incurring any additional indebtedness, limits capital expenditures, restricts dividends, and requires a “clean down” during the fourth quarter. Amounts available at any time are limited by certain asset balances, specifically inventory and receivables. Our credit facility is also subject to quarterly covenants. The Company violated certain debt covenants in the third quarter of 2004 and the third quarter of 2005. In each case, the violation of covenants was waived and the credit facility was renewed for an additional year. The credit facility in place at January 31, 2006, includes quarterly covenants that include EBITDA requirements. In order to comply with the quarterly covenants, the Company will be required to substantially improve operating results for 2006 compared to 2005. As a result of the foregoing, we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might further our growth strategy or otherwise be considered beneficial to us. A breach of any of the covenants in our credit facility could result in a default, which, if not cured or waived, may permit acceleration of the indebtedness under the credit facility. If the indebtedness under our credit facility were to be accelerated, we cannot be certain that we will have sufficient funds available to pay such indebtedness or that we will have the ability to refinance the accelerated indebtedness on terms favorable to us or at all. Any such acceleration could also result in a foreclosure on 12 Table of Contents all or substantially all of our assets, which would have a negative impact on the value of our common stock and jeopardize our ability to continue as a going concern. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms. Our capital requirements depend on many factors, including capital improvements, tooling and new product development. To the extent that our existing capital is insufficient to meet these requirements and cover any losses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Equity financings could result in dilution to our stockholders, and the securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. If our need for capital arises because of significant losses, the occurrence of these losses may make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital. An inability to protect our intellectual property could have a significant impact on our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws. Our ability to compete effectively with our competitors depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property. The degree of protection offered by the claims of the various patents, trademarks and service marks may not be broad enough to provide significant proprietary protection or competitive advantages to us, and patents, trademarks or service marks may not be issued on our pending or contemplated applications. In addition, not all of our products are covered by patents. It is also possible that our patents, trademarks and service marks may be challenged, invalidated, cancelled, narrowed or circumvented. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property with respect to our significant current or proposed products, our competitors may be able to sell copies of our products, which could adversely affect our ability to sell our original products and could also result in competitive pricing pressures. If third parties claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, we may incur liability and costs and may have to redesign or discontinue an infringing product. We face the risk of claims that we have infringed third parties’ intellectual property rights. Companies operating in the furniture industry routinely seek protection of the intellectual property for their product designs, and our principal competitors may have large intellectual property portfolios. Our efforts to identify and avoid infringing third parties’ intellectual property rights may not be successful. Any claims of intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could (i) be expensive and time consuming to defend; (ii) cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; (iii) require us to redesign, reengineer, or rebrand our products or packaging, if feasible; or (iv) require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property. Such claims could have a negative impact on our sales and results of operations. We could be required to incur substantial costs to comply with environmental requirements. Violations of, and liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations may increase our costs or require us to change our business practices. Our past and present ownership and operation of manufacturing plants are subject to extensive and changing federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to discharges to air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. As a result, we are involved from time to time in administrative and judicial proceedings and inquiries relating to environmental matters and could become subject to fines or penalties related thereto. We cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future, how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted or what environmental conditions may be found to exist. Compliance with more stringent laws or regulations, or stricter interpretation of existing laws, may require additional expenditures by us, some of which may be material. We have been identified as a potentially responsible party pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, for remediation costs associated with waste disposal sites previously used by us. In general, CERCLA can impose liability for costs to investigate and remediate contamination without regard to fault or the legality of disposal and, under certain circumstances, liability may be joint and several, resulting in one party being held responsible for the entire obligation. Liability may also include damages for harm to natural resources. The remediation costs and our allocated share at some of these CERCLA sites are unknown. We may also be subject to claims for personal injury or contribution relating to CERCLA sites. We reserve amounts for such matters when expenditures are probable and reasonably estimable. We are subject to potential labor disruptions, which could have a significant impact on our business. None of our workforce is represented by unions, and while we believe that we have good relations with our workforce, we may experience work stoppages or other labor problems in the future. Any prolonged work stoppage could have an adverse effect on our reputation, our vendor relations and our customers. 13 Table of Contents Our insurance coverage may not adequately insulate us from expenses for product defects. We maintain product liability and other insurance coverage that we believe to be generally in accordance with industry practices. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us fully against substantial claims and costs that may arise from product defects, particularly if we have a large number of defective products that we must repair, retrofit, replace or recall. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Holders of approximately 45% of the shares of Virco stock have entered into an agreement restricting the sale of the stock. Certain shares of the Company’s common stock received by the holders thereof as gifts from Julian A. Virtue, including shares received in subsequent stock dividends, are subject to an agreement that restricts the sale or transfer of those shares. As a result of the share ownership and representation on the board and in management, the parties to the agreement have significant influence on affairs and actions of the Company, including matters requiring stockholder approval such as the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, these transfer restrictions and concentration of ownership could have the effect of impeding an acquisition of the Company. Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board of directors, whereby directors serve for three-year terms, with approximately one-third of the directors coming up for reelection each year. Having a staggered board will make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of us that is not favored by our board of directors. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an “interested stockholder,” we may not enter into a “business combination” with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. For purposes of Section 203, “interested stockholder” means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in Section 203. Our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which may be unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. The limited “float” of shares available for purchase or sale of Virco stock can magnify this volatility. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on our common stock market price include: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects; • our announcements or our competitors’ announcements of new products; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; • our inability to raise additional capital; • conditions of the school furniture industry as a result of changes in funding or general economic conditions, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism and responses to such events; and • changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or the education furniture industry generally. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 