ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investors should read carefully the following factors as well as the cautionary statements referred to in "Forward-Looking Statements" herein. If any of the risks and uncertainties described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report actually occur, the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Inherent in the Company's Business Wexpro may not be able to economically find and develop new reserves. Wexpro's profitability depends on its ability to develop gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Productive natural gas and oil reservoirs are generally characterized by declining production rates that vary depending on reservoir characteristics. Because of significant production decline rates in several of Wexpro's producing areas, substantial capital expenditures are required to develop gas reserves to replace those depleted by production. Wexpro’s rate of development of cost-of-service gas may vary depending upon market conditions. Wexpro develops cost-of-service gas and oil in accordance with accepted standards and prudent field-management and engineering practices. These standards and practices are influenced by gas and oil commodity prices and other market conditions. Gas and oil reserve estimates are imprecise and subject to revision. Wexpro's proved natural gas and oil reserve estimates are prepared annually by its reservoir engineers. Gas and oil reserve estimates are subject to numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves, projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures. The accuracy of these estimates depends on the quality of available data and on engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Reserve estimates are imprecise and will change as additional information becomes available. Estimates of economically recoverable reserves prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times may vary significantly. Results of subsequent drilling, testing and production may cause either upward or downward revisions of previous estimates. In addition, the estimation process also involves economic assumptions relating to commodity prices, produ ction costs, severance and other taxes, capital expenditures and remediation costs. Actual results most likely will vary from the estimates. Any significant variance from these assumptions could affect the recoverable quantities of reserves attributable to any particular property, the classifications of reserves, the estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves and the present value of those reserves. Shortages of oilfield equipment, services and qualified personnel could impact results of operations. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with natural gas and oil prices, causing periodic shortages. There also have been regional shortages of drilling rigs and other equipment, as demand for specialized rigs and equipment has 9 increased along with the number of wells being drilled. These factors also cause increases in costs for equipment, services and personnel. These cost increases could restrict the ability to drill wells and conduct operations, especially during periods of lower natural gas and oil prices. Operations involve numerous risks that might result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. Drilling is a high-risk activity. Operating risks include: fire, explosions and blow-outs; unexpected drilling conditions such as abnormally pressured formations; abandonment costs; pipe, cement or casing failures; environmental accidents such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, brine or well fluids (including groundwater contamination). The Company could incur substantial losses as a result of injury or loss of life; pollution or other environmental damage; damage to or destruction of property and equipment; regulatory investigation; fines or curtailment of operations; or legal fees and other expenses incurred in the prosecution or defense of litigation. As a working interest owner in wells operated by other companies, the Company may also be exposed to the risks enumerated above that are not within its care, custody or control. There are also inherent operating risks and hazards in the Company's gas and oil production, processing, transportation and distribution operations that could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses. Certain company pipelines have been in service for a number of years. As these pipelines age, the risk may increase of pipeline leakage or failure due to corrosion, fatigue or third-party damage. The location of pipelines near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites could increase the damages resulting from these risks. Certain segments of the Company's pipelines run through such areas. In spite of the Company's precautions, an event could cause considerable harm to people or property, and could have a material adverse effect on the financial position and results of operations, particularly if the event is not fully covered by insurance. Accidents or other operating risks could further result in loss of service available to the Company's customers. Such circumstances could adversely impact the Company's ability to meet contractual obligations and retain customers. While the Company works to mitigate the risk of pipeline failures by assessing and replacing sections of more vulnerable pipelines and by implementing other measures as part of its pipeline integrity program, Questar cannot assure that these measures will be successful in avoiding serious accidents, explosions, injuries, death or loss. As is customary in the natural gas development and production, transportation and distribution industries, the Company maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these potential risks and losses. Questar cannot assure that insurance will be adequate to cover these losses or liabilities. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or underinsured events could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operations. Questar is dependent on bank credit facilities and continued access to capital markets to successfully execute its operating strategies. Questar also relies on access to short-term commercial paper markets. The Company is dependent on these capital sources to provide financing for working capital and certain projects. The availability and cost of these credit sources can vary significantly; and these capital sources may not remain available or the Company may not be able to obtain capital at a reasonable cost in the future. In lieu of commercial paper issuance, the Company at times has utilized back-up lines-of-credit with banks to meet short-term funding needs. Banks may be unable or unwilling to extend back-up lines-of-credit in the future. Questar's bank credit facilities and commercial-paper program are subject to variable interest rates. From time to time the Company may use interest-rate derivatives to fix the rate on a portion of its variable-rate debt. A dow ngrade of credit ratings could increase the interest cost of debt and decrease future availability of capital from banks and other sources. While management believes it is important to maintain investment-grade credit ratings to conduct the Company's businesses, the Company may not be able to keep investment-grade ratings. The economic downturn increases credit risk. Questar has significant credit exposure in outstanding accounts receivable from customers in all segments of its business. Questar has tightened its credit procedures, for example, by requiring deposits or prepayments to help manage this risk. Questar also aggressively pursues collection of past-due accounts receivable. Questar may incur liabilities associated with the Spinoff of QEP. Questar received a Private Letter Ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that the distribution of QEP qualities for tax-free treatment. The ruling relied on certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those related to past and future conduct of Questar’s and QEP’s business. The Internal Revenue Service could determine that the distribution of QEP is a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions and undertakings is false or has been violated. If this occurs, Questar would face significant tax liability. Questar and QEP entered into several agreements in connection with the Spinoff, including a separation agreement, a tax matters agreement and a transition service agreement. Questar and QEP continue to cooperate in the filing of tax returns, operation of certain facilities and performance of certain transition services. Questar could face additional costs or liabilities if there are disputes regarding these agreements. 10 Risks Related to Regulation Questar is subject to complex federal, state and local laws and regulations that could adversely affect its cost of doing business. The Company is subject to federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and tend to become more restrictive over time. Questar must comply with the National Environmental Policy Act, the Endangered Species Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, and the National Historic Preservation Act and similar state laws. Federal and state agencies frequently impose conditions on the Company's activities. These restrictions have become more stringent over time and can limit or prevent natural gas development and production on Wexpro’s leaseholds or construction of new transmission or distribution pipelines and related facilities. The United States Fish and Wildlife Service may designate critical habitat areas for certain listed threatened or endangered species. A critical habitat designation could result in further material restrictions to federal-land use and private-land use and could delay or prohibit land access or development. The listing of certain species, such as the sage grouse, as threatened and endangered, could have a material impact on the Company's operations in areas where such species are found. The Clean Water Act and similar state laws regulate discharges of storm water, wastewater, oil, and other pollutants to surface water bodies, such as lakes, rivers , wetlands, and streams. Failure to obtain permits for such discharges could result in civil and criminal penalties, orders to cease such discharges, corrective actions, and other costs and damages. These laws also require the preparation and implementation of Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure Plans in connection with on-site storage of significant quantities of oil. Certain environmental groups oppose drilling on some of Wexpro’s federal and state leases. These groups sometimes sue federal and state agencies for alleged procedural violations in an attempt to stop, limit or delay natural gas and oil development on public lands. All wells drilled in tight-gas-sand and shale reservoirs require hydraulic-fracture stimulation to achieve economic production rates and recoverable reserves. A significant portion of Wexpro’s current and future production and reserve potential is derived from reservoirs that require hydraulic-fracture stimulation to be commercially viable. Currently, all well-construction activities, including hydraulic-fracture stimulation, are regulated by state agencies that review and approve all aspects of gas-and oil-well design and operation. New environmental initiatives, proposed federal and state legislation, and rulemaking pertaining to hydraulic-fracture stimulation could include additional permitting and reporting requirements and potential restrictions on the use of hydraulic-fracture stimulation that could materially affect the Company's ability to develop and produce gas and oil reserves. In addition, the Company is subject to federal and state hazard communications and community right-to-know statutes and regulations such as the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act that require certain recordkeeping and reporting of the use and release of hazardous substances. Various federal agencies within the U.S. Department of the Interior, particularly the Minerals Management Service and the Bureau of Indian Affairs, along with each Native American tribe, promulgate and enforce regulations pertaining to gas and oil operations on Native American tribal lands. These regulations include such matters as lease provisions, drilling and production requirements, environmental standards and royalty considerations. In addition, each Native American tribe is a sovereign nation having the right to enforce laws and regulations independent from federal, state and local statutes and regulations. These tribal laws and regulations include various taxes, fees, requirements to employ Native American tribal members and other conditions that apply to lessees, operators and contractors conducting operations on Native American tribal lands. Lessees and operators conducting operations on tribal lands are generally subject to the Native American tribal court system. One or more of these factors may increase the Company's costs of doing business on Native American tribal lands and have an impact on the viability of its natural gas development, production, gathering, processing and transportation operations on such lands. Regulatory authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance. Requirements imposed by these authorities may be costly and time consuming and may result in delays in the commencement or continuation of Wexpro’s natural gas development and production operations and Questar Pipeline’s construction projects. Further, the public may comment on and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. Accordingly, needed permits may not be issued, or if issued, may not be issued in a timely fashion, or may involve requirements that restrict Questar's ability to conduct its operations or to do so profitably. In addition to the costs of compliance, substantial costs may be incurred to take corrective actions at both owned and previously owned facilities. Accidental spills and leaks requiring cleanup may occur in the ordinary course of business. As standards change, the Company may incur significant costs in cases where past operations followed practices that were considered acceptable at the time but now require remedial work to meet current standards. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in fines, significant costs for remedial activities, or injunctions. 11 Questar may be exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. Federal and state courts and administrative agencies are considering the scope and scale of climate-change regulation under various laws pertaining to the environment, energy use and development, and greenhouse-gas emissions. It is likely that Congress will enact legislation to regulate greenhouse-gas emissions in the future, though not in 2011. The EPA has adopted regulations for the measurement and reporting of greenhouse gases emitted from combustion at large facilities (emitting more than 25,000 metric tons/year of carbon dioxide equivalent) beginning in 2010. The first report is to be filed with the EPA by March 31, 2011. Reporting under this regulation will be expanded to include measurement and reporting of greenhouse-gas emissions attributed to methane venting and leaking in 2011. This regulation will affect all Questar subsidiaries in 2011, and will require measureme nt and monitoring in the natural gas producing basins in which Wexpro operates, as well as in Questar Pipeline’s compressor stations, storage fields, and processing facilities. Questar Gas will be responsible for reporting combustion emissions for all of its customers, as well as for measurement and monitoring of gate-station methane emissions. EPA’s Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule, which went into effect January 1, 2011, regulates greenhouse gases as a Clean Air Act pollutant. This rule will be phased in to regulate greenhouse gas at large new sources or at existing sources undergoing major modifications. There are efforts in the current Congress to undo the Tailoring Rule; it is too early to predict whether these efforts will be successful. Analysis of near-term capital projects indicates that these permitting regulations will not inhibit development or expansion of Questar services, unless EPA reduces thresholds in the future. While future climate-change regulation is likely, it is too early to predict how this regulation will affect Questar's business, operations, or financial results. If forthcoming regulations recognize that use of natural gas in high-efficiency residential, commercial, transportation, industrial, and electricity generation applications is essential to lower U.S. greenhouse-gas emissions, use of natural gas in these applications will increase. Similarly, natural gas will be essential in ensuring electrical- grid reliability as reliance on intermittent renewable energy increases in the future. Use of natural gas as an alternative transportation fuel continues to grow, with Questar actively involved in expanding refueling infrastructure. On the other hand, federal regulation of carbon dioxide could increase the price of natural gas, restrict access to or the use of natural gas, and/or reduce natural gas demand. Federal, state, and local governments may pass laws mandating the use of alternat ive-energy sources, such as wind, solar, and geothermal energy. The increased use of alternative energy could reduce the future demand for natural gas. It is uncertain whether Questar's operations and properties, all located in the Rocky Mountains, are exposed to possible physical risks, such as severe weather patterns due to climate change, as a result of man-made greenhouse gases. However, management does not believe that such physical risks are reasonably likely to have a material effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations. FERC regulates the transportation and storage of natural gas and natural gas markets. Questar Pipeline's natural gas transportation and storage operations are regulated by the FERC under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. The FERC has authority to: set rates for natural gas transportation, storage and related services; set rules governing business relationships between the pipeline subsidiary and its affiliates; approve new pipeline and storage-facility construction; and establish policies and procedures for accounting, purchase, sale, abandonment and other activities. FERC policies may adversely affect Questar Pipeline profitability. Over the past two years, FERC issued a number of orders related to market transparency that extend FERC oversight to many Questar subsidiaries. Order No. 704 requires all natural gas companies to report gas purchases and sales and their relationship to price reporting indexes. Order No. 712 defines changes in capacity release and asset management. Order No. 717 establishes new Standards of Conduct Rules and Order No. 720 requires intrastate pipelines to report available transportation capacity. In addition to the orders, FERC released a policy statement on compliance in which it states that companies must have a "rigorous" FERC compliance program that extends to all subsidiaries, not just interstate pipelines. Since the enactment of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, granting FERC increased penalty authority for non-compliance, FERC has targeted various issues in the natural gas industry for compliance audits and investigations. In late 2010 FERC issued a revised policy statement on penalty guidelines. These guidelines indentify mitigation measures companies can take to minimize or reduce the risk of a significant FERC compliance penalty. State agencies regulate the distribution of natural gas. Questar Gas’s natural gas-distribution business is regulated by the PSCU and the PSCW. These commissions set rates for distribution services and establish policies and procedures for services, accounting, purchase, sale and other activities. PSCU and PSCW policies and decisions may adversely affect Questar Gas profitability. Other Risks General economic and other conditions impact Questar's results. Questar's results may also be negatively affected by: changes in global economic conditions; changes in regulation; creditworthiness of counterparties; rate of inflation and interest rates; weather and natural disasters; changes in customers' credit ratings; competition from other forms of energy, other pipelines and storage facilities; effects of accounting policies issued periodically by accounting standard-setting bodies; terrorist attacks or acts of war; changes in business or financial condition; changes in credit ratings; and availability of financing for Questar. 12 The underfunded status of the Company’s defined benefit pension plans may require large contributions, which may divert funds from other uses. As of December 31, 2010, the Company’s defined benefit pension plans were $132.5 million underfunded. The underfunded status of the pension plans may require large contributions, which may divert funds from other uses by the Company. Over time, periods of declining interest rates and pension asset values may result in further reduction of the funding status of the plans and require additional contributions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 