ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.Investors should read carefully the following factors as well as the cautionary statements referred to in "Forward-Looking Statements" herein. If any of the risks and uncertainties described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report actually occur, the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.Risks Inherent in the Company's BusinessWexpro may not be able to economically find and develop new reserves. Wexpro's profitability depends on its ability to develop gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Productive natural gas and oil reservoirs are generally characterized by 13declining production rates that vary depending on reservoir characteristics. Because of significant production decline rates in several of Wexpro's producing areas, substantial capital expenditures are required to develop gas reserves to replace those depleted by production.Wexpro's rate of development of cost-of-service gas may vary depending upon market conditions. Wexpro develops cost-of-service gas and oil in accordance with accepted standards and prudent field-management and engineering practices. These standards and practices are influenced by gas and oil commodity prices and other market conditions. Historically, natural gas and oil prices have been volatile and will likely continue to be volatile. The Company cannot predict the future price of natural gas and oil because the factors that drive prices are beyond its control. Natural gas prices have declined significantly in 2011 and 2012. In the short-run, purchased gas may be available for Questar Gas customers at a lower price than cost-of-service gas. While the Company believes it can continue to develop natural gas properties at a competitive long-term cost to the consumer, low natural gas prices may impact the pace of that development. Wexpro's rate of development of cost-of-service gas may be limited by growth in Questar Gas's sales volumes. The proportion of Questar Gas's gas supply needs met by Wexpro has increased due to successful development of the Vermillion Basin and continued development of the Pinedale field. Wexpro's 2012 share of the utility's gas supply also increased due to warm weather that significantly reduced overall Questar Gas sales volumes. Wexpro's gas-development program may be limited based on the volumes of cost-of-service gas it can supply to Questar Gas for the summer load and Questar Gas's ability to store gas during the summer for peak supply needs. Wexpro and Questar Gas are pursuing opportunities to use Wexpro cost-of-service gas for Questar Gas's industrial customers, although there is no assurance that this will be successful. Certain large commercial and industrial customers of Questar Gas have elected to switch from sales service to transportation service. This switching may reduce the volumes that Wexpro is able to supply to Questar Gas. Gas and oil reserve estimates are imprecise and subject to revision. Wexpro's proved natural gas and oil reserve estimates are prepared annually by its reservoir engineers. Gas and oil reserve estimates are subject to numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves, projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures. The accuracy of these estimates depends on the quality of available data and on engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Reserve estimates are imprecise and will change as additional information becomes available. Ownership interests in properties may change due to claims of ownership rights. Estimates of economically recoverable reserves prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times may vary significantly. Results of subsequent drilling, testing and production may cause either upward or downward revisions of previous estimates. In addition, the estimation process also involves economic assumptions relating to commodity prices, production costs, severance and other taxes, capital expenditures and remediation costs. Changes in field development plans will impact the reporting of reserves because the Company limits the recording of proved undeveloped reserves to those that are expected to be developed within the next five years. Actual results most likely will vary from the estimates. Any significant variance from these assumptions could affect the recoverable quantities of reserves attributable to any particular property and the classifications of reserves.Shortages of oilfield equipment, services and qualified personnel could impact results of operations. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with natural gas and oil prices, causing periodic shortages. There also have been regional shortages of drilling rigs and other equipment, as demand for specialized rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. These factors also cause increases in costs for equipment, services and personnel. These cost increases could restrict the ability to drill wells and conduct operations, especially during periods of lower natural gas and oil prices. This may also delay the installation of gathering facilities for new production.Wexpro may acquire properties not subject to the Wexpro or Wexpro II agreements. Wexpro may acquire gas development properties that are in locations separate from its current operations or are not approved by the Commissions for inclusion in the Wexpro II arrangement. In these cases, Wexpro will develop these properties and sell the production in the market or through contracts with other customers. Wexpro would be subject to commodity price risk and marketing risks for these properties.Excess pipeline capacity in the Rocky Mountain area impacts Questar Pipeline's revenues. In the last few years development of natural gas reserves in the Rocky Mountain area has slowed due to low natural gas prices and development of reserves in areas closer to major markets. As a result, export pipeline capacity exceeds current production levels. This excess capacity may impact Questar Pipeline's ability to renew contracts at current terms as contracts expire. This excess capacity may also limit growth opportunities to develop new pipelines in the area.Questar Pipeline's natural gas liquid revenues are expected to decline. Questar Pipeline earns NGL revenues from its processing plant and pipeline facilities. These revenues have declined in the last few years due to lower prices and the 14development of upstream facilities that extract NGL before the gas is transported on Questar Pipeline's system. These revenues are expected to decline further due to shifting of gas contracts that results in the delivery of the gas to upstream facilities. Questar Pipeline's investment in Questar Southern Trails Pipeline may be impaired if other options are not successful. Questar Southern Trails Pipeline is currently operating in natural gas service at a loss with a reduction in transportation revenues as an expired contract was recontracted at a lower rate in the fourth quarter of 2012. In the fourth quarter of 2012, Questar Pipeline began a strategic evaluation of its Questar Southern Trails Pipeline assets. Questar Pipeline and its advisers have distributed a confidential information memorandum to a number of interested parties. This memorandum outlines the possible conversion of the pipeline to oil service that would move crude oil from the San Juan and Permian basins to refineries in the Los Angeles area. This evaluation of Southern Trails Pipeline is considering development of the project by Questar Pipeline, sale to a third party, joint venture, partnership, or other alternatives. Questar Pipeline is evaluating a number of non-binding proposals from third parties, and expects to complete this evaluation by mid-2013. Questar Pipeline may need to impair its investment in Southern Trails if the results of this strategic evaluation or other options for the use of Southern Trails are not successful.Questar Gas's investment in infrastructure replacement will increase customer rates and could impact its competitive position. Questar Gas is investing significant capital to replace aging pipeline infrastructure. This significant investment is expected to continue over a number of years. Replacement of aging pipeline infrastructure will increase customer safety; however, Questar Gas's return on this investment and depreciation costs will continue to increase customer rates. Over time this may impact customer decisions on the use of natural gas versus other energy alternatives.The legal dispute over gathering costs between Questar Gas and QEP Field Services may result in costs to shareholders. As disclosed in Note 8 to the financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II, Questar Gas and QEP Field Services are involved in a legal dispute over gathering costs. These gathering costs have been included in Questar Gas's rates as purchased gas costs. The outcome of this dispute and its resulting financial impact on Questar Gas are uncertain at this time.Questar Fueling may be unable to profitably compete in the natural gas fueling market. Questar Fueling was created in 2012 to design, build and operate natural gas fueling facilities outside Questar Gas's market. This business is competitive and Questar Fueling's operations may not be profitable until it establishes itself as a credible player in the industry.Operations involve numerous risks that might result in accidents, environmental harm and other operating risks and costs. Drilling is a high-risk activity. Operating risks include: fire, explosions and blow-outs; unexpected drilling conditions such as abnormally pressured formations; abandonment costs; pipe, cement or casing failures; environmental accidents such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, brine or well fluids (including groundwater contamination). The Company could incur substantial losses as a result of injury or loss of life; pollution or other environmental damage; damage to or destruction of property and equipment; regulatory investigation; fines or curtailment of operations; or legal fees and other expenses incurred in the prosecution or defense of litigation. As a working interest owner in wells operated by other companies, the Company may also be exposed to the risks enumerated above that are not within its care, custody or control.There are also inherent operating risks and hazards in the Company's gas and oil production, processing, transportation and distribution operations that could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses. Certain Company pipelines have been in service for a number of years. As these pipelines age, the risk may increase of pipeline leakage or failure due to corrosion, fatigue, third-party damage or subsidence due to underground mining. The location of pipelines near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites could increase the damages resulting from these risks. In spite of the Company's precautions, an event could cause considerable harm to people or property, and could have a material adverse effect on the financial position and results of operations, particularly if the event is not fully covered by insurance. Accidents or other operating risks could further result in loss of service available to the Company's customers. Such circumstances could adversely impact the Company's ability to meet contractual obligations and retain customers.While the Company works to mitigate the risk of pipeline failures by assessing and replacing sections of more vulnerable pipelines and by implementing other measures as part of its pipeline integrity program, Questar cannot assure that these measures will be successful in avoiding serious accidents, explosions, injuries or death.As is customary in the natural gas development and production, transportation and distribution industries, the Company maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these potential risks and losses. Questar cannot assure that insurance will be adequate to cover these losses or liabilities. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or under-insured events could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operations.15Questar is dependent on bank credit arrangements and continued access to capital markets to successfully execute its operating strategies. Questar also relies on access to short-term commercial paper markets. The Company is dependent on these capital sources to provide financing for working capital and certain projects. The availability and cost of these credit sources can vary significantly; and these capital sources may not remain available or the Company may not be able to obtain capital at a reasonable cost in the future. In lieu of commercial paper issuance, the Company at times has utilized credit facilities with banks to meet short-term funding needs. Questar has a $500 million revolving credit arrangement with various banks. However, banks may be unable or unwilling to extend credit in the future. Questar's revolving credit arrangement and commercial-paper program are subject to variable interest rates. From time to time the Company may use interest-rate derivatives to fix the rate on a portion of its variable-rate debt. A downgrade of credit ratings could increase the interest cost of debt and decrease future availability of capital from banks and other sources. While management believes it is important to maintain investment-grade credit ratings to conduct the Company's businesses, the Company may not be able to keep investment-grade ratings.The economic downturn increases credit risk. Questar has credit exposure in outstanding accounts receivable from customers in all segments of its business, which could become significant. Questar has tightened its credit procedures, for example, by requiring deposits or prepayments to help manage this risk. Questar aggressively pursues collection of past-due accounts receivable. Questar has also enhanced its review of customer credit risk.Risks Related to RegulationQuestar is subject to complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that could adversely affect its cost of doing business. Environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and tend to become more restrictive over time. Some of the regulations with which Questar must comply include the National Environmental Policy Act, the Endangered Species Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, and the National Historic Preservation Act, as well as similar state laws.Federal and state agencies frequently impose conditions on the Company's activities. These restrictions have become more stringent over time and can limit or prevent natural gas development and production on Wexpro's leaseholds or construction of new transmission or distribution pipelines and related facilities. For example, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service may designate critical habitat areas for certain listed threatened or endangered species. A critical habitat designation could result in further material restrictions to federal-land use and private-land use and could delay or prohibit land access or development. The listing of certain species, such as the sage grouse, as threatened and endangered, could have a material impact on the Company's operations in areas where such species are found. The Clean Water Act and similar state laws regulate discharges of storm water, wastewater, oil, and other pollutants to surface water bodies, such as lakes, rivers, wetlands, and streams. Failure to obtain permits for such discharges or accidental releases could result in civil and criminal penalties, orders to cease such discharges, corrective actions, and other costs and damages. These laws also require the preparation and implementation of Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure Plans in connection with on-site storage of significant quantities of oil.The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has recently enacted air-quality regulations that particularly affect Questar Pipeline and Wexpro operations. These regulations will require the installation of additional pollution controls and extensive monitoring and reporting. The impact of these air quality regulations, along with greenhouse gas monitoring and reporting requirements, may result in increased costs for Questar.In addition, the Company is subject to federal and state hazard communications and community right-to-know statutes and regulations such as the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act that require certain record-keeping and reporting of the use and release of hazardous substances.Certain environmental groups oppose drilling on some of Wexpro's federal and state leases. These groups sometimes sue federal and state agencies for alleged procedural violations in an attempt to stop, limit or delay natural gas and oil development on public lands.All wells drilled in tight-gas-sand and shale reservoirs require hydraulic-fracture stimulation to achieve economic production rates and recoverable reserves. The majority of Wexpro’s current and future production and reserve potential is derived from reservoirs that require hydraulic-fracture stimulation to be commercially viable. Currently, all well-construction activities, including hydraulic-fracture stimulation, are regulated by state agencies that review and approve all aspects of gas- and oil-well design and operation. New environmental initiatives, proposed federal and state legislation, and rule-making pertaining to hydraulic-fracture stimulation could increase Wexpro's costs, restrict its access to natural gas reserves and impose additional permitting and reporting requirements. These potential restrictions on the use of hydraulic-fracture stimulation could materially 16affect the Company's ability to develop gas and oil reserves. The Company believes its well design and completion procedures are adequate to protect the environment. Questar supports disclosure of the contents of hydraulic-fracturing fluids and submits information on the chemicals used in hydraulic-fracture stimulation on Company operated wells through the national disclosure registry FracFocus (fracfocus.org).In addition to the costs of compliance, substantial costs may be incurred to take corrective actions at both owned and previously-owned facilities. These facilities include a previously-owned chemical business, manufactured gas plant sites, and transmission and production facilities. Accidental spills and leaks requiring cleanup may occur in the ordinary course of business. As standards change, the Company may incur significant costs in cases where past operations followed practices that were considered acceptable at the time but now require remedial work to meet current standards. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in fines, significant costs for remedial activities, or injunctions.Various federal agencies within the U.S. Department of the Interior, particularly the Minerals Management Service and the Bureau of Indian Affairs, along with each Native American tribe, promulgate and enforce regulations pertaining to gas and oil operations on Native American tribal lands. These regulations address such matters as lease provisions, drilling and production requirements, environmental standards and royalty considerations. In addition, each Native American tribe is a sovereign nation having the right to enforce laws and regulations independent from federal, state and local statutes and regulations. These tribal laws and regulations include various taxes, fees, requirements to employ Native American tribal members and other conditions that apply to lessees, operators and contractors conducting operations on Native American tribal lands. Lessees and operators conducting operations on tribal lands are generally subject to the Native American tribal court system. One or more of these factors may increase the Company's costs of doing business on Native American tribal lands and have an impact on the viability of its natural gas development, production, gathering, processing and transportation operations on such lands.Regulatory authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance. Requirements imposed by these authorities may be costly and time consuming and may result in delays in the commencement or continuation of Wexpro's natural gas development and production operations and Questar Pipeline's construction projects. Further, the public may comment on and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including court intervention. Accordingly, needed permits may not be issued, or if issued, may not be issued in a timely fashion, or may involve requirements that restrict Questar's ability to conduct its operations or to do so profitably.Questar may be exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. Federal and state courts and administrative agencies are addressing claims and demands related to climate change under various laws pertaining to the environment, energy use and development, and greenhouse-gas emissions. The EPA has adopted the Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule for the measurement and reporting of greenhouse gases emitted from combustion at large facilities (emitting more than 25,000 metric tons/year of carbon dioxide equivalent) beginning in 2010. Questar's first report was filed with the EPA in September 2011. Reporting under this regulation was expanded to include measurement and reporting of greenhouse-gas emissions attributed to methane venting and leaking starting in 2011. This regulation requires measurement and monitoring in the natural gas producing basins in which Wexpro operates, as well as in Questar Pipeline's compressor stations, storage fields, and processing facilities. Questar Gas is responsible for reporting combustion emissions for all of its customers, as well as for measurement and monitoring of gate-station methane emissions. This rule has created a greenhouse gas inventory, which could be used for regulatory compliance purposes and to generate emissions fees or other potential charges.EPA’s Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule, which went into effect January 1, 2011, currently regulates greenhouse gases as a Clean Air Act pollutant at large new sources or at existing sources undergoing major modifications. Analysis of near-term capital projects indicates that these permitting regulations will not inhibit development or expansion of Questar services, unless the EPA reduces thresholds in the future.While future climate-change regulation is possible, it is too early to predict how potential regulation will affect Questar's business, operations, or financial results. If forthcoming regulations recognize that use of natural gas in high-efficiency residential, commercial, transportation, industrial, and electricity generation applications is essential to lower U.S. greenhouse-gas emissions, use of natural gas in these applications could increase. Similarly, natural gas will be essential in ensuring electrical-grid reliability as reliance on intermittent renewable energy increases in the future. Use of natural gas as an alternative transportation fuel continues to grow, with Questar actively involved in expanding refueling infrastructure. On the other hand, federal regulation of carbon dioxide could increase the price of natural gas, restrict access to or the use of natural gas, and/or reduce natural gas demand. Federal, state, and local governments may pass laws mandating the use of alternative-energy sources, such as wind, solar, and geothermal energy. The increased use of alternative energy could reduce the future demand for natural gas. It is uncertain whether Questar's operations and properties are exposed to possible physical risks, such as severe weather patterns due to climate change, as a result of man-made greenhouse gases. 17Questar is subject to changing U.S. Department of Transportation Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration rules and regulations, which may increase costs. The Company is subject to PHMSA non-compliance risk due to significant legislative and regulatory developments in response to several major pipeline accidents in recent years. The reauthorization of the Pipeline Safety Act was signed by the President in January 2012. The new law includes significant new provisions on historical records research and maximum allowed operating pressure validation, use of automated or remote controlled valves on new or replaced lines, increased civil penalties and evaluation of expanding integrity management beyond high-consequence areas. PHMSA will be phasing in the new regulations over the next two years. PHMSA has already begun implementation of integrated compliance audits, which would require a focused effort by Questar Pipeline and Questar Gas to address the audit requests and potential findings and recommendations. Penalties associated with non-compliance could be substantial.FERC regulates the transportation and storage of natural gas and natural gas markets. Questar Pipeline's natural gas transportation and storage operations are regulated by the FERC under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. The FERC has authority to: set rates for natural gas transportation, storage and related services; set rules governing business relationships between the pipeline subsidiary and its affiliates; approve new pipeline and storage-facility construction; and establish policies and procedures for accounting, purchase, sale, abandonment and other activities. FERC policies may adversely affect Questar Pipeline profitability. Over the past several years, FERC issued a number of orders related to market transparency that extend FERC oversight to many Questar subsidiaries. Order No. 704 requires all natural gas companies to report gas purchases and sales and their relationship to price reporting indexes. Order No. 712 defines changes in capacity release and asset management. Order No. 717 establishes new Standards of Conduct Rules. In addition to the orders, FERC released a policy statement on compliance in which it states that companies must have a "rigorous" FERC compliance program that extends to all subsidiaries, not just interstate pipelines. Since the enactment of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, granting FERC increased penalty authority for non-compliance, FERC has targeted various issues in the natural gas industry for compliance audits and investigations. In late 2010 FERC issued a revised policy statement on penalty guidelines. These guidelines identify mitigation measures companies can take to minimize or reduce the risk of a significant FERC compliance penalty.State agencies regulate the distribution of natural gas. Questar Gas's natural gas-distribution business is regulated by the PSCU and the PSCW. These commissions set rates for distribution services and establish policies and procedures for services, accounting, purchase, sale and other activities. PSCU and PSCW policies and decisions may adversely affect Questar Gas profitability.Questar is subject to health care reform regulations, which may increase costs. Questar incurs significant costs to provide health care benefits to employees and some retirees. These costs have increased at a rate greater than inflation over a number of years and are expected to continue to increase. The full impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 will not affect the Company until 2014; however, the cost of compliance with the provisions of the Act is difficult to measure at this time.Other RisksQuestar depends upon key operational and technical personnel. The successful implementation of the Company's business strategy depends, in part, on experienced operational and technical personnel, including key geologists, engineers and other professionals. Many of these key employees have the opportunity to retire within the next few years. In 2012, Questar offered a retirement incentive for those employees eligible for retirement. About 100 employees accepted this offer and will retire in early 2013. The retirement of these employees accelerates the need for succession planning and knowledge transfer to prepare future management and key employees for critical positions.General economic and other conditions impact Questar's results. Questar's results may be negatively affected by: changes in global economic conditions; changes in regulation; creditworthiness of counterparties; rate of inflation and interest rates; weather and natural disasters; changes in customers' credit ratings; competition from other forms of energy, other pipelines and storage facilities; ability to renegotiate contracts, which could ultimately result in the impairment of assets; effects of accounting policies issued periodically by accounting standard-setting bodies; terrorist attacks or acts of war; changes in business or financial condition; changes in credit ratings; and availability of financing for Questar. Slower economic growth in markets served by Questar businesses may adversely impact the Company's operating results.Questar faces risks of cyber-security attacks and loss of sensitive customer and employee data. Questar's operating and business systems may be vulnerable to an attack by individuals or organizations intending to disrupt business operations or obtain sensitive customer and employee data. In addition, this sensitive data may be disseminated through intentional or unintentional actions by employees, agents or vendors. The Company's operations and its ability to serve customers may be significantly impacted if its operating and business systems were unavailable. The cost to remedy an unintended dissemination 18of sensitive information may be significant. Questar mitigates these risks through a defense-in-depth approach that utilizes information technology security measures including system disaster-recovery procedures, intrusion-prevention systems, vulnerability management, network segmentation, internet scanning, anti-virus and malware scanning, system-access procedures and system-change-control procedures.The underfunded status of the Company's defined benefit pension plans increases pension costs and may require large contributions, which may divert funds from other uses. As of December 31, 2012, the Company's defined benefit pension plans were $249.5 million underfunded. This is due in part to the historically low discount rate used to value plan liabilities. The underfunded status of the pension plans may require large contributions, which may divert funds from other uses by the Company. Over time, periods of declining interest rates and pension asset values may result in further reduction of the funding status of the plans and require additional contributions. Questar cannot predict whether these factors will require the Company to make contributions greater than current expectations.Failure of the Company's controls and procedures to detect misstatement of financial results or fraud could negatively impact operating results and harm the Company's reputation. Questar's management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannot ensure and do not expect that the Company's internal controls over financial reporting, including disclosure controls, will work as intended to prevent all possible errors and fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and implemented, can provide only reasonable assurance that the purpose and intent of the control system are achieved. The design and application of a control system is based, in part, on judgments about the likelihood of future events. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with Company policies. Because of inherent limitations in a control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur without detection.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.None.