ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.Investors should read carefully the following factors as well as the cautionary statements referred to in "Forward-Looking Statements" herein. If any of the risks and uncertainties described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report actually occur, the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.Risks Associated with the Proposed Merger with Dominion ResourcesThe proposed Merger with Dominion Resources is subject to shareholder and regulatory approval. As disclosed in Item 1. Business, the Company and Dominion Resources entered into a Merger Agreement on January 31, 2016. Closing of the merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of specified closing conditions, including (i) the approval of the merger by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Company Common Stock, (ii) the receipt of regulatory approvals required to consummate the Merger, including approvals from the Public Service Commission of Utah (if required) and the Public Service Commission of Wyoming, (iii) the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, (iv) the absence of any law, statute, ordinance, code, rule, regulation, ruling, decree, judgment, injunction or order of a governmental authority that prohibits the consummation of the Merger, and (v) other customary closing conditions, including (a) the accuracy of each party’s representations and warranties (subject to customary materiality qualifiers), (b) each party’s compliance in all material respects with its obligations and covenants contained in the Merger Agreement, and (c) the absence of a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, the obligations of Parent and Merger Sub to consummate the Merger are subject to the required regulatory approvals not imposing or requiring any undertakings, terms, conditions, liabilities, obligations, commitments or sanctions, or any structural or remedial actions that constitute a company material adverse effect. The Company may not receive the required statutory approvals and other clearances for the Merger, or they may not be received in a timely manner. If such approvals are received, they may impose terms, conditions or restrictions (i) that cause a failure of the closing conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, or (ii) could have a detrimental impact on the combined company following completion of the Merger. A substantial delay in obtaining the required authorizations, approvals or consents or the imposition of unfavorable terms, conditions or restrictions could prevent the completion of the Merger. Even after the expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott Rodino Act, government authorities could seek to block or challenge the Merger as they deem necessary or desirable in the public interest.Failure to complete the Merger could adversely affect the Company's stock price and future business operations and financial results. Completion of the Merger is subject to risks as described above. If the Company is unable to complete the Merger, holders of Company common stock will not receive any payment for their shares pursuant to the Merger Agreement. The Company's ongoing business may be adversely affected and would be subject to a number of risks, including the following:•the Company would have paid significant transaction costs, and in certain circumstances, a termination fee to Dominion Resources of $99 million,•the attention of management may have been diverted to the Merger rather than to operations and the pursuit of other opportunities,•the potential loss of key personnel as personnel may experience uncertainty about their future with the combined company,•the Company will have been subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of business, which may prevent the Company from making certain acquisitions or dispositions or pursuing other business opportunities, and•the trading price of the Company's stock may decline if the market believes the Merger may not be completed.Failure to complete the Merger may result in negative publicity, additional litigation against the Company or its directors and officers, and a negative impression of the Company in the investment community. The occurrence of these events, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations or the price of the Company's common stock.The Company's business will be impacted by the terms and conditions of the Agreement and Plan of Merger. The Company made certain covenants in the Merger Agreement that will impact its business until the Merger is completed or the Merger Agreement terminates. These covenants limit the Company's ability to make significant changes to its business or pursue otherwise attractive business opportunities without the consent of Dominion Resources.The Company will incur significant costs associated with the Merger. The Company expects to incur significant costs associated with the Merger for financial advisory services, legal services, revaluation of share-based compensation and acceleration of executive compensation. Some of these costs will be incurred even if the Merger is not completed.Questar 2015 Form 10-K15 The Company's business will be subject to uncertainties while the Merger is pending. Uncertainty about the effect of the Merger on employees, suppliers and customers may have an adverse effect on the Company. Although the Company intends to take steps to reduce any adverse effects, these uncertainties may impair the Company's abilities to attract, retain and motivate employees until the Merger is completed and for a period of time thereafter.Potential future litigation against the Company and its directors and officers challenging the Merger may prevent the Merger from being completed within the anticipated timeframe. The Company and/or its directors and officers may potentially be named as defendants in class action lawsuits filed on behalf of public shareholders challenging the Merger and potentially seeking to enjoin the defendants from consummating the Merger on the agreed-upon terms.Risks Inherent in the Company's BusinessLow oil and natural gas prices impact the Company's earnings and ability to grow its Wexpro and Questar Pipeline businesses. Historically, natural gas and oil prices have been volatile and will likely continue to be volatile. The Company cannot predict the future price of natural gas and oil because the factors that drive prices are beyond its control. Under the Wexpro agreements, the pace of Wexpro's development will continue to be affected as long as market gas prices remain below Wexpro's cost of service.Wexpro earns the majority of its revenues from the delivery of natural gas to Questar Gas under the Wexpro and Wexpro II agreements (Wexpro agreements). Pursuant to the Wexpro agreements, Wexpro recovers its costs and receives an after-tax return on its investment base. Wexpro's investment base includes its costs of acquired properties and commercial wells and related facilities, adjusted for working capital and reduced by accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization, and deferred income taxes.Wexpro's earnings growth depends on its ability to maintain and grow its investment base, which in turn depends on Wexpro's ability to develop gas reserves through its annual drilling programs. Wexpro generally designs its drilling program to provide cost-of-service production that is, on average, at or below the current five-year Rockies-adjusted NYMEX forward price curve. Based on current market prices for natural gas, new drilling in Wexpro's properties under the existing agreements may be limited. Therefore, until gas prices increase, Wexpro's ability to grow its investment base will be limited, and it is likely that the investment base will continue to decrease due to depreciation, depletion and amortization. Any decrease in investment base will reduce Wexpro's earnings.In addition to the impact on Wexpro's ability to increase its investment base, low oil and natural gas prices may have other adverse impacts on Questar's business. Low prices in the Rocky Mountain region are reducing drilling activity generally, which affects Questar Pipeline's opportunities to expand its pipeline system. Low prices also increase commodity price risk. Wexpro is exposed to some commodity price risk even though most of Wexpro's revenues are based on cost of service. Questar Pipeline has commodity price risk on NGL volumes recovered in its pipeline system.Revised terms of the Wexpro Agreements will impact Wexpro's earnings. In December 2014, Wexpro acquired an additional interest in its existing Wexpro-operated assets in the Canyon Creek Unit of southwestern Wyoming's Vermillion Basin. During 2015 Wexpro and Questar Gas submitted an application to the Commissions for approval to include the acquired Canyon Creek properties under the terms of the Wexpro II Agreement. As part of this application, Wexpro proposed significant changes to its cost-of-service program to enable future cost-of-service gas production to be more competitive with market prices. The proposed changes to the cost-of-service program were subsequently modified by a Settlement Stipulation among Questar Gas, Wexpro, the Utah Division of Public Utilities, the Utah Office of Consumer Services and the Wyoming Office of Consumer Advocate. The proposed modifications to the Wexpro Agreements, as modified by the Settlement Stipulation, were approved by the PSCU on November 17, 2015 and by the PSCW on November 24, 2015.As modified, the Wexpro Agreements include the Canyon Creek acquisition as a Wexpro II property and provide for the following changes to the cost-of-service program:•the return on post-2015 development drilling will be lowered to the Commission allowed rate of return on investment as defined in the Wexpro II Agreement (currently 7.64%), and the pre-2016 investment base and associated returns will not be affected;•Wexpro and Questar Gas will reduce the threshold of maximum combined production from Wexpro properties from 65% of Questar Gas's annual forecasted demand to 55% in 2020;Questar 2015 Form 10-K16 •Dry-hole and non-commercial well costs will be shared on a 50%/50% basis between utility customers and Wexpro so long as the costs allocated to utility customers do not exceed 4.5% of Wexpro's annual development drilling program costs;•Wexpro will share in 50% of the savings when the annual price of cost-of-service production is lower than the annual average market price. However Wexpro's 50% share of any annual savings will be limited so that Wexpro will not earn a return exceeding the return earned on gas development investment under the 1981 Wexpro Agreement.Although Wexpro's pre-2016 investment base continues to earn the higher return described above, the pre-2016 investment base will continue to decline over time due to depreciation. Wexpro's post-2015 investment base will earn the lower return described above. Due to these factors, the Company expects Wexpro's overall earnings to decrease compared to prior years.Wexpro may not be able to economically find and develop new reserves. Wexpro's earnings growth depends on its ability to develop gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Productive natural gas and oil reservoirs are generally characterized by declining production rates that vary depending on reservoir characteristics. Because of significant production decline rates in several of Wexpro's producing areas, substantial capital expenditures are required to develop gas reserves to replace those depleted by production.Wexpro's rate of development of cost-of-service gas may be limited. The proportion of Questar Gas's natural gas supply needs met by Wexpro has increased due to successful development of the Vermillion Basin and continued development of the Pinedale field. As described below, however, Wexpro has agreed to manage its supply to 65% or less of Questar Gas's annual forecasted demand. This threshold will decrease to 55% in 2020. Therefore, future growth depends on growth in Questar Gas's sales volumes. In addition, even if Questar Gas's sales volumes increase, Wexpro's gas-development program may be limited based on the volumes of cost-of-service gas it can supply to Questar Gas for the summer load and Questar Gas's ability to store gas during the summer for peak supply needs.Questar Gas's large customers may elect to switch from sales to transportation service and reduce Questar Gas's need for cost-of-service gas from Wexpro. Over the last few years, certain large commercial and industrial customers of Questar Gas have elected to switch from sales service to transportation service, which reduces the volume of gas required by Questar Gas and may reduce the volume of gas Questar Gas needs Wexpro to supply. If this trend continues and fewer industrial and commercial customers use cost-of-service gas provided by Wexpro, the results of operations for Wexpro and the Company may be adversely affected.Wexpro has market price risk if production exceeds 65% of Questar Gas's forecasted demand. In September 2013, Wexpro completed the Trail acquisition. In the first quarter of 2014, the PSCU and the PSCW approved a stipulation for inclusion of the Trail acquisition properties in the Wexpro II Agreement. The stipulation allowed Wexpro to include the cost of the Trail properties in its investment base. As part of this stipulation, Wexpro agreed to manage the combined production from the original Wexpro properties and the Trail acquisition to 65% of Questar Gas's annual forecasted demand. Beginning in June 2015 through May 2016 and for each subsequent 12-month period, if the combined annual production exceeds 65% of the forecasted demand and the cost-of-service price is greater than the Questar Gas purchased-gas price, an amount equal to the excess production times the excess price will be credited back to Questar Gas customers. Wexpro may also sell production to manage the 65% level and credit back to Questar Gas customers the higher of market price or the cost-of-service price times the sales volumes. The 65% threshold will decrease to 55% in 2020.Gas and oil reserve estimates are imprecise and subject to revision. Wexpro's proved natural gas and oil reserve estimates are prepared annually by internal reservoir engineers. Gas and oil reserve estimates are subject to numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves, projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures. The accuracy of these estimates depends on the quality of available data and on engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Reserve estimates are imprecise and will change as additional information becomes available. Ownership interests in properties may change due to claims of ownership rights. Estimates of economically recoverable reserves prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times, may vary significantly. Results of subsequent drilling, testing and production may cause either upward or downward revisions of previous estimates. In addition, the estimation process involves economic assumptions relating to commodity prices, production costs, severance and other taxes, capital expenditures and remediation costs. Changes in field-development plans will impact the reporting of reserves because the Company limits the recording of proved undeveloped reserves to those that are expected to be developed within the next five years. Actual results most likely will vary from the estimates. Any significant variance from these assumptions could affect the recoverable quantities of reserves attributable to any particular property and the classifications of reserves.Wexpro's disclosure of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows may not accurately reflect the value of these reserves. Investors should not assume that Wexpro's presentation of the standardized measure of discounted future net Questar 2015 Form 10-K17 cash flows relating to non-cost-of-service proved reserves is reflective of the current market value of the estimated gas and oil reserves. In accordance with SEC disclosure rules, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from Wexpro's non-cost-of-service proved reserves are based on the first-of-the-month prior 12-month average prices and current costs on the date of the estimate, holding the prices and costs constant throughout the life of the properties and using a discount factor of 10% per year. Actual future production, prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the current estimate, and future determinations of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows using similarly determined prices and costs may be significantly different from the current estimate.Wexpro may acquire properties not subject to the Wexpro or Wexpro II agreements. Wexpro may acquire gas development properties that are in locations separate from its current operations or are not approved by the Commissions for inclusion in the Wexpro II Agreement. In these cases, Wexpro will develop these properties and sell the production in the market or through contracts with other customers. Wexpro would be subject to commodity-price risk and marketing risks for these properties. Wexpro may not be successful in entering into cost-of-service arrangements with third parties. Wexpro plans to acquire gas properties outside of the Wexpro or Wexpro II agreements and sell the production to third parties under cost-of-service arrangements. Only a few other companies have entered into similar cost-of-service arrangements and Wexpro may not be successful in negotiating such arrangements with third parties and obtaining approval from applicable regulators.Excess pipeline capacity in the Rocky Mountain area impacts Questar Pipeline's revenues. In the last few years development of natural gas reserves in the Rocky Mountain area has slowed due to low natural gas prices and development of reserves in areas closer to major markets. As a result, export pipeline capacity exceeds current production levels. This excess capacity may impact Questar Pipeline's ability to renew contracts at current terms as contracts expire. This excess capacity may also limit growth opportunities to develop new pipelines in the area.Questar Pipeline's natural gas liquids revenues have declined. Questar Pipeline earns NGL revenues from its processing plant and pipeline facilities. These revenues have declined in the last few years due to lower prices and the development of upstream facilities that extract NGL before the gas is transported on Questar Pipeline's system. Questar Pipeline's plans to sell Questar Southern Trails Pipeline may not be successful. Questar Pipeline has begun a process to sell Questar Southern Trails Pipeline assets. Questar Pipeline's net book value of the western segment of Southern Trails Pipeline is approximately $24 million. The eastern segment of Southern Trails Pipeline continues to operate at a loss. The Company recorded an impairment on the eastern segment of Southern Trails Pipeline in 2013, reducing its book value to zero. Assuming the Company can identify a buyer and negotiate acceptable terms, the Company's objective is to sale the Questar Southern Trails Pipeline during 2016. There is no assurance that the Company will be successful in selling Questar Southern Trails Pipeline.Questar Pipeline's investment in the eastern segment of Questar Southern Trails Pipeline has been impaired and the pipeline is operating at a loss. The eastern segment of Questar Southern Trails Pipeline is currently operating in natural gas service at a loss. Questar Pipeline recorded an impairment of its investment in the eastern segment of Southern Trails in the third quarter of 2013. Operating losses have increased as the basis differential between the San Juan basin and California markets has decreased. Questar Pipeline may incur additional costs to seek abandonment of this pipeline for natural gas service if it is unsuccessful in selling the pipeline.Questar Gas's investment in infrastructure replacement will increase customer rates. Questar Gas is investing significant capital to replace aging pipeline infrastructure. This significant investment is expected to continue over a number of years. Replacement of aging pipeline infrastructure will increase customer safety; however, Questar Gas's return on this investment and depreciation costs will continue to increase customer rates. Over time, this may impact customer decisions on the use of natural gas versus other energy alternatives.The legal dispute over gathering costs between Questar Gas and QEP Field Services Company could have an adverse financial impact on Questar Gas. As disclosed in Note 10 - Contingencies of the Company's consolidated financial statements included herein, Questar Gas and QEP Field Services Company are involved in a legal dispute over gathering costs. These gathering costs have been included in Questar Gas's rates as purchased-gas costs. The outcome of this dispute and its resulting financial impact on Questar Gas are uncertain at this time.Questar Fueling may be unable to profitably compete in the natural gas fueling market. Questar Fueling was created in 2012 to design, build and operate natural gas fueling facilities in a competitive market. Questar Fueling's operations may not be profitable until demand grows and it establishes itself as a credible player in the industry. Lower oil prices may reduce the incentive for trucking companies to switch from diesel to natural gas powered trucks.Questar 2015 Form 10-K18 Operations in all lines of business involve numerous risks that might result in accidents, environmental harm and other operating risks and costs. Drilling is a high-risk activity. Operating risks include: fire, explosions and blow-outs; unexpected drilling conditions such as abnormally pressured formations; abandonment costs; pipe, cement or casing failures; environmental accidents such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, brine or well fluids (including groundwater contamination). The Company could incur substantial losses as a result of injury or loss of life; pollution or other environmental damage; damage to or destruction of property and equipment; regulatory investigation; fines or curtailment of operations; and legal fees and other expenses incurred in the prosecution or defense of litigation. As a working interest owner in wells operated by other companies, the Company may also be exposed to the risks enumerated above that are not within its care, custody or control.The Company's underground pipelines may be exposed to damage by third-party digging within the pipeline rights-of-way. Such damage may result in fires and explosions, which could cause injuries, loss of life and other damage. The Company works to educate contractors and other third parties, to mark rights-of-way with appropriate signs, and to encourage staking of pipeline locations before any digging.There are also inherent operating risks and hazards in the Company's gas and oil production, processing, transportation, storage and distribution operations that could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, and impairment of operations. Certain Company pipelines have been in service for a number of years. As these pipelines age, the risk may increase of pipeline leakage or failure due to corrosion, fatigue, third-party damage, ground movement, or subsidence due to underground mining. The location of pipelines near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites could increase the damages resulting from these risks. In spite of the Company's precautions, an event could cause considerable harm to people or property, and could have a material adverse effect on financial position and results of operations, particularly if the event is not fully covered by insurance. Accidents or other operating risks could further result in loss of service available to the Company's customers. Such circumstances could adversely impact the Company's ability to meet contractual obligations and retain customers.The Company works to mitigate the risk of pipeline failures by assessing and replacing sections of more vulnerable pipelines and by implementing other measures as part of its pipeline integrity program. Questar cannot assure that these measures will be successful in avoiding serious accidents, explosions, injuries or death.As is customary in the natural gas development and production, transportation and distribution industries, the Company maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these potential risks and losses. Questar cannot assure that insurance will be adequate to cover these losses or liabilities. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or under-insured events could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operations.Questar is dependent on bank credit arrangements and continued access to capital markets to successfully execute its operating strategies. Questar relies on access to short-term commercial paper and long-term capital markets. The Company is dependent on these capital sources to provide financing for working capital and certain projects. The availability and cost of these credit sources can vary significantly; and these capital sources may not remain available or the Company may not be able to obtain capital at a reasonable cost in the future. In lieu of commercial paper issuance, the Company at times has utilized credit facilities with banks to meet short-term funding needs. Questar has a $500 million revolving credit facility and a $250 million 364-day credit facility with various banks. The credit facilities expire upon a change of control, such as the proposed Merger with Dominion Resources. However, the credit facilities have been amended to extend through the closing of the proposed Merger with Dominion Resources. Banks may be unable or unwilling to extend credit in the future. Questar's revolving credit facilities and commercial-paper program are subject to variable interest rates. From time to time the Company may use interest-rate derivatives to fix the rate on a portion of its variable-rate debt. A downgrade of credit ratings could increase the interest cost of debt and decrease future availability of capital from banks and other sources. While management believes it is important to maintain investment-grade credit ratings to conduct the Company's businesses, the Company may not be able to keep investment-grade ratings.Questar is exposed to credit risk. Questar has credit exposure in outstanding accounts receivable from customers in all segments of its business, which could become significant. Credit risk may increase for certain customers and counterparties in the current low oil and gas price environment. Questar maintains credit procedures, for example, by requiring deposits or prepayments to help manage this risk. Questar aggressively pursues collection of past-due accounts receivable and monitors customer-specific credit risk.Questar 2015 Form 10-K19 Risks Related to RegulationQuestar is subject to complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that could adversely affect its cost of doing business. Environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and tend to become more restrictive over time. Some of the regulations with which Questar must comply include the National Environmental Policy Act; the Endangered Species Act; the Clean Air Act; the Clean Water Act; the National Historic Preservation Act; the Toxic Substance Control Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act; the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act; the Oil Pollution Act; as well as similar state and local laws that can be stricter than federal laws.Federal and state agencies frequently impose conditions on the Company's activities. These restrictions have become more stringent over time and can limit or prevent natural gas and oil development and production on Wexpro's leaseholds or construction of new transmission or distribution pipelines and related facilities. For example, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service may designate critical habitat areas for certain listed threatened or endangered species. A critical habitat designation could result in further material restrictions to federal land use and private land use and could delay or prohibit land access or development. The listing of certain species as threatened and endangered, could have a material impact on the Company's operations in areas where such species are found. The Clean Water Act and similar state laws regulate discharges of storm water, wastewater, oil, and other pollutants to surface water bodies, such as lakes, rivers, wetlands, and streams. Accidental releases or failure to obtain permits for discharges could result in civil and criminal penalties, orders to cease such discharges, corrective actions, and other costs and damages. These laws also require the preparation and implementation of Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure Plans in connection with on-site storage of significant quantities of oil.The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has enacted air-quality regulations that particularly affect Questar Pipeline and Wexpro operations. These regulations require the installation of additional pollution controls and extensive monitoring and reporting. Some states have implemented air-quality rules that are stricter than the federal regulations, making it difficult to strategically plan for long-term pollution controls. The impact of these air-quality regulations, along with greenhouse gas monitoring and reporting requirements, may result in increased costs for Questar.In addition, the Company is subject to federal and state hazard communications and community right-to-know statutes and regulations such as the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act that require certain record-keeping and reporting of the use and release of hazardous substances.Certain environmental groups oppose drilling on some of Wexpro's federal and state leases. These groups sometimes sue federal and state agencies for alleged procedural violations in an attempt to stop, limit or delay natural gas and oil development on public lands.All wells drilled in tight-gas-sand and shale reservoirs require hydraulic-fracture stimulation to achieve economic production rates and recoverable reserves. The majority of Wexpro’s current and future production and reserve potential is derived from reservoirs that require hydraulic-fracture stimulation to be commercially viable. Currently, all well construction activities, including hydraulic-fracture stimulation, are regulated by federal and state agencies that review and approve all aspects of gas- and oil-well design and operation. New environmental initiatives, proposed federal and state legislation, and rule-making pertaining to hydraulic-fracture stimulation could increase Wexpro's costs, restrict its access to natural gas reserves and impose additional permitting and reporting requirements. These potential restrictions on the use of hydraulic-fracture stimulation could materially affect the Company's ability to develop gas and oil reserves. The Company believes its well design and completion procedures are appropriate to protect the environment. Questar supports disclosure of the contents of hydraulic-fracturing fluids and submits information on the chemicals used in hydraulic-fracture stimulation on Company-operated wells through the national disclosure registry FracFocus (fracfocus.org).In addition to the costs of compliance, substantial costs may be incurred to evaluate and take corrective actions at both owned and previously-owned facilities. These facilities include a previously-owned chemical business, manufactured gas plant sites, and transmission and production facilities. Accidental spills and leaks requiring cleanup may occur in the ordinary course of business. As standards change, the Company may incur significant costs in cases where past operations followed practices that were considered acceptable at the time but now require remedial work to meet current standards. Significant expenditures may result from remedial activities, injunctions and/or penalties.Regulatory authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance. Requirements imposed by these authorities may be costly and time consuming, and may result in delays in the commencement or continuation of Wexpro's natural gas development and production operations and Questar Pipeline's construction projects. Further, the public may comment on and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including court intervention. Accordingly, needed permits Questar 2015 Form 10-K20 may not be issued, or if issued, may not be issued in a timely fashion, or may involve requirements that restrict Questar's ability to conduct its operations or to do so profitably.Questar may be exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. Federal and state courts and administrative agencies are addressing claims and demands related to climate change under various laws pertaining to the environment, energy use and development, and greenhouse-gas emissions. The EPA adopted the Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule for the measurement and reporting of greenhouse gases emitted from combustion at large facilities (emitting more than 25,000 metric tons/year of carbon dioxide equivalent). Questar has been reporting annual greenhouse gas emissions to the EPA since the 2010 emission year. This regulation requires measurement and monitoring in the natural gas producing basins in which Wexpro operates, as well as in Questar Pipeline's compressor stations, storage fields, and processing facilities. Additionally, Questar Gas reports combustion emissions for all of its customers, as well as gate-station methane emissions. This rule has created a greenhouse gas inventory, which could be used for regulatory compliance purposes and to generate emissions fees or other potential charges.In 2015, the federal government issued a “blueprint” outlining the policies it will adopt to address methane emissions from the oil and gas industry. The blueprint announces an overall goal to cut methane emissions by 45% from 2012 levels by 2025. This will occur through a combination of regulatory and voluntary initiatives that will be finalized in the near future. It is too early to predict how these new requirements will affect Questar's business, operations, or financial results.The EPA has finalized rules under the Clean Air Act to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from existing fossil fuel fired electric generating power plants. These rules require states to adopt plans to reduce carbon dioxide emission by 32% from 2005 levels by 2030. Questar believes these rules provide an opportunity to further promote the energy efficiency and emissions savings benefits of natural gas.If forthcoming climate change regulations recognize that use of natural gas in high-efficiency residential, commercial, transportation, industrial and electricity-generation applications is essential to reduce U.S. greenhouse-gas emissions, use of natural gas in these applications should increase. Similarly, natural gas will be essential in ensuring electrical-grid reliability as reliance on intermittent renewable energy increases in the future. Use of natural gas as an alternative transportation fuel has slowed as the price of oil has declined. On the other hand, federal regulation of methane and carbon dioxide could increase the price of natural gas, restrict access to or the use of natural gas, and/or reduce natural gas demand. The impact on the environment of natural gas drilling, production and transportation continues to be analyzed and debated, which could influence future laws and regulations. Federal, state, and local governments may pass laws mandating the use of alternative-energy sources, such as wind, solar, and geothermal energy. The increased use of alternative energy could reduce the future demand for natural gas. It is uncertain whether Questar's operations and properties are exposed to possible physical risks, such as severe weather patterns due to climate change, as a result of man-made greenhouse gases. Questar is subject to changing U.S. Department of Transportation Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration and state rules and regulations, which may increase costs. The Company is subject to PHMSA non-compliance risk due to significant legislative mandates and pending rulemaking. The reauthorization of the Pipeline Safety Act was approved by the Senate Commerce Committee in December, 2015 with five amendments. The final consensus version of the bill may include significant new or restated mandates. One of these amendments included the requirement for PHMSA to establish rules for improving the safety of underground natural gas storage facilities. Based on the current problems with the Southern California storage facility, its is expected that Congress and PHMSA will issue emergency regulation to hasten industry adoption of down-hole integrity management programs. This would increase costs to the Company.The last reauthorization in 2011 included 42 congressional mandates directed at the natural gas and pipeline industry, of which the PHMSA has only satisfied approximately 50%. This creates a significant risk to the Company and the pipeline industry in the form of potential new legislation targeting the gaps that the PHMSA has yet to fill. Included in the 2011 reauthorization were new provisions on historical records research, maximum-allowed operating pressure validation, use of automated or remote-controlled valves on new or replaced lines, increased civil penalties, and evaluation of expanding integrity management beyond high-consequence areas. The PHMSA has not yet issued new rulemaking on most of these items.PHMSA completed several audits of Questar Pipeline facilities and records in the last three years with only minor findings and no proposed fines. Auditors from the states of Utah, Wyoming and Idaho continue to inspect Questar Gas's records, facilities and practices but have issued only minor findings and no fines. Penalties associated with non-compliance could be substantial if violations and corrective-action orders are issued. The Company expects to continue to incur significant costs to upgrade or re-certify infrastructure to meet changing regulations and legislative mandates or to respond to escalating information requests.Questar 2015 Form 10-K21 FERC regulates the transportation and storage of natural gas and natural gas markets. Questar Pipeline's natural gas transportation and storage operations are regulated by the FERC under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. The FERC has authority to: set rates for natural gas transportation, storage and related services; set rules governing business relationships between the pipeline subsidiary and its affiliates; approve new pipeline and storage-facility construction; and establish policies and procedures for accounting, purchases, sales, abandonments and other activities. FERC policies may adversely affect Questar Pipeline's profitability. Over the past several years, the FERC has issued a number of orders related to market transparency that extend FERC oversight to many Questar subsidiaries. Order No. 704 requires all natural gas companies to report gas purchases and sales and their relationship to price reporting indexes. Order No. 712 defines changes in capacity release and asset management. Order No. 717 establishes new Standards of Conduct Rules. In addition to the orders, the FERC released a policy statement on compliance in which it states that companies must have a "rigorous" FERC compliance program that extends to all subsidiaries, not just interstate pipelines. Since the enactment of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, granting the FERC increased penalty authority for non-compliance, the FERC has targeted various issues in the natural gas industry for compliance audits and investigations. In late 2010 the FERC issued a revised policy statement on penalty guidelines. These guidelines identify mitigation measures companies can take to minimize the risk of a significant FERC compliance penalty. The best mitigation measure a company can implement is a rigorous FERC compliance program with oversight by a Chief FERC Compliance Officer. This has been implemented by Questar. However, even a rigorous compliance program is no guarantee that FERC compliance issues will not arise.State agencies regulate the distribution of natural gas. Questar Gas's natural gas distribution business is regulated by the PSCU and the PSCW. These commissions set rates for distribution services and establish policies and procedures for services, accounting, purchases, sales and other activities. PSCU and PSCW policies and decisions including an authorized return on equity and disallowed costs may adversely affect the Company's profitability. Authorized returns on equity have declined for Questar Gas and throughout the United States with the decline in interest rates, and may decline further for Questar Gas in future rate cases.Questar is subject to health care reform regulations, which may increase costs. Questar incurs significant costs to provide health care benefits to employees and some retirees. These costs have increased at a rate greater than inflation over a number of years and are expected to continue to increase. Other RisksQuestar depends upon key operational and technical personnel. The successful implementation of the Company's business strategy depends, in part, on experienced operational and technical personnel, including key geologists, engineers and other professionals. Many of these key employees have the opportunity to retire within the next few years. The retirement of employees has accelerated the need for succession planning and knowledge transfer to prepare future management and key employees for critical positions.General economic and other conditions impact Questar's results. Questar's results may be negatively affected by the following: changes in global economic conditions; changes in regulation; creditworthiness of customers and suppliers; rate of inflation and interest rates; weather and natural disasters; competition from other forms of energy, other pipelines and storage facilities; ability to renegotiate contracts, which could ultimately result in the impairment of assets; effects of accounting policies issued periodically by accounting standard-setting bodies; terrorist attacks or acts of war; changes in business or financial condition; changes in credit ratings; and availability of financing. Slower economic growth in markets served by Questar businesses may adversely impact the Company's operating results.Questar faces risks of cyber-security attacks and loss of sensitive customer and employee data. Questar may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks by individuals or organizations intending to disrupt business operations or obtain sensitive customer and employee data. In addition, this sensitive data may be disseminated through intentional or unintentional actions by employees, agents or vendors. The Company's operations and its ability to serve customers may be significantly impacted if its operating and business systems were unavailable. The cost to remedy an unintended dissemination of sensitive information may be significant. Questar mitigates these risks through a defense-in-depth approach utilizing information technology security measures including system disaster-recovery procedures, intrusion-prevention systems, vulnerability management, network segmentation, internet scanning, anti-virus and malware scanning, system-access procedures and system-change-control procedures.The underfunded status of the Company's defined benefit pension plans and postretirement medical and life insurance plans increases costs and may require large contributions, which may divert funds from other uses. As of December 31, 2015, the Company's defined benefit pension plans were $86.8 million underfunded and its postretirement medical and life insurance plans were $41.9 million underfunded. The level of underfunding decreased in 2015 because of contributions and an Questar 2015 Form 10-K22 increase in the discount rate used to value the liabilities and changes in mortality tables partially offset by lower asset returns. The underfunded status of the plans may require large contributions, which may divert funds from other uses by the Company. Over time, periods of declining interest rates and asset values may result in further reduction of the funding status of the plans and require additional contributions. Questar cannot predict whether these factors will require the Company to make contributions greater than current expectations. Employees hired or rehired after June 30, 2010, are not eligible for the defined benefit pension plans and employees hired or rehired after December 31, 1996, are not eligible for the postretirement medical plan and are not eligible to receive basic life coverage once they retire.Failure of the Company's controls and procedures to detect misstatement of financial results or fraud could negatively impact operating results and harm the Company's reputation. Questar's management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannot ensure and do not expect that the Company's internal controls over financial reporting, including disclosure controls, will prevent or detect all possible errors and fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and implemented, can provide only reasonable assurance that the purpose and intent of the control system are achieved. The design and application of a control system is based, in part, on judgments about the likelihood of future events. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with Company policies. Because of inherent limitations in a control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur without detection.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.None.