ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of, among other factors, the risk factors set forth below. Our future operating results are difficult to predict and are subject to fluctuations. We have incurred nine consecutive quarters of declining earnings per share. Our operating results, including revenues, gross margins, operating expenses and net income (loss), have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis. Our future operating results may be materially affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • adverse economic conditions in the United States and international markets for our products, especially in light of weakening domestic economic indicators and the ongoing recession in Europe; • adverse budgetary conditions within the U.S. government, particularly the Department of Defense, which may impact spending on current and anticipated programs into which we sell or anticipate to sell our products; • the timing of new product introductions or other competitive actions (e.g., product price reductions) by our competitors; • the timing of our new product introductions and our ability to meet customer expectations for timely delivery of fully qualified products; • changes in customer demand for our current products and for end products incorporating our products, as well as our ability to respond efficiently to such changes in demand, including changes in order lead times and the volumes of product for which orders are received and the product shipped within an individual quarter; • our ability to manage our supply chain, inventory levels, and manufacturing capacity in the event of delays or cancellation of significant customer orders; • our ability to effectively coordinate changes in the mix of products we manufacture and sell, while managing our ongoing transition in organizational focus from traditional brick power components to our new VI Chip, VI Brick and Picor products; • our ability to provide and maintain a high level of support to an increasing number of demanding, high volume customers; • the ability of our third party suppliers, subcontractors and manufactures to supply us with sufficient quantities of high quality products or components on a timely basis; • the effectiveness of our efforts to reduce product costs and manage operating expenses; • our ability to utilize our manufacturing facilities at efficient levels, maintaining production capacity and manufacturing yields; • the ability to hire, retain and motivate qualified employees to meet the demands of our customers; • intellectual property disputes; • potential significant litigation-related costs; • costs related to compliance with increasing worldwide governance, quality, environmental, and other regulations; and • the effects of public health emergencies, natural disasters, security risks, terrorist activities, international conflicts and other events beyond our control. 14 Table of Contents As a result of these and other factors, we cannot assure you we will not experience significant fluctuations in future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition, if our operating results do not meet the expectations of investors, the market price of our Common Stock may decline. Our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future. During 2012, the trading price of a share of our Common Stock declined 33.9%, while the NASDAQ Composite Index, in which we are included, rose 14%. Because of the factors set forth below, among others, the trading price of our Common Stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly: • the ongoing volatility of the financial markets; • uncertainty regarding the prospects of domestic and foreign economies; • uncertainty regarding domestic and international political conditions, including tax policies; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating performance or that of our competitors; • the performance and prospects of our major customers; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant new products, technical innovations or litigation; • investor perception of our company and the industry in which we operate; • the absence of earnings estimates and supporting research by investment analysts; • the liquidity of the market for our Common Stock; • the uncertainty of the declaration and payment of future cash dividends on our Common Stock; and • the concentration of ownership of our Common Stock by Dr. Vinciarelli, our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, and President. We do not actively communicate with investment analysts and, as a consequence, there are no earnings estimates or supporting research coverage of Vicor and our Common Stock. While we seek to be transparent in our financial reporting, public statements, and related disclosures, the absence of research coverage may limit investor interest in our securities. Because our operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis, investors may have difficulty in assessing our current and future performance. In the past, we have declared and paid cash dividends on our Common Stock. The payment of dividends is based on the periodic determination by our Board of Directors that we have adequate capital to fund anticipated operating requirements and that excess cash is available for distribution to shareholders via a dividend. We have no formal policy regarding dividends and, as such, investors cannot make assumptions regarding the possibility of future dividend payments nor the amounts and timing thereof. The ownership of our Common Stock is concentrated between Dr. Vinciarelli and a limited number of institutional investors. Dr. Vinciarelli owned, as of December 31, 2012, 9,675,480 shares of our Common Stock, as well as 11,023,648 shares of our Class B Common Stock (convertible on a one-for-one basis into Common Stock), together representing 50.4% of total issued and outstanding shares. Certain institutional investors have been long-term owners of our Common Stock and held in aggregate, as of December 30, 2012 (the most recent reporting date for institutional holders), approximately 12% of our issued and outstanding shares. Accordingly, the market float for our Common Stock and average daily trading volumes are relatively small, which can negatively impact investors’ ability to buy or sell shares of our Common Stock in a timely manner. Dr. Vinciarelli owns 93.7% of our issued and outstanding Class B shares, which possess 10 votes per share. Dr. Estia J. Eichten, a member of our Board of Directors, owns the majority of the balance of Class B shares issued and outstanding. As such, Dr. Vinciarelli, controlling in aggregate 81.3% of our outstanding voting securities, has effective control of our governance. 15 Table of Contents On November 19, 2012, we announced our intent to commence a tender offer for shares of our Common Stock representing up to $20,000,000 in aggregate value and commenced this tender offer on November 26, 2012, with an expiration date of December 21, 2012. On December 24, 2012, we announced the extension of the tender offer through January 23, 2013, and on January 24, 2013, we again announced further extension of the tender offer through March 1, 2013. As of March 6, 2013, the most recent date for which information is available related to the preliminary total number of shares accepted for purchase in the tender offer, we will purchase no less than 2,031,955 shares of our Common Stock for aggregate consideration of approximately $10,932,000. Based on this preliminary calculation, after the purchase of 2,031,995 shares of our Common Stock associated with this tender offer, and based on reported ownership data as of December 31, 2012, the most recent date for which such information is available, Dr. Vinciarelli will own shares of our Common Stock and shares of our Class B Common Stock in aggregate representing 82.2% of share voting power. Our purchase of shares of Common Stock pursuant to this tender offer will reduce the number of shares that might otherwise be traded publicly and may reduce our total number of shareholders; however, we believe there will be a sufficient number of shares of our Common Stock outstanding and publicly traded following completion of our tender offer to ensure a continued trading market for our Common Stock. The ongoing disruptions in the global economy, as well as continued uncertainty in global financial markets, could materially and adversely affect our business and consolidated operating results. Further disruption and deterioration in inter-related global economic conditions may reduce customer purchases of our products, thereby reducing our revenues and earnings. In addition, such adverse conditions may, among other things, result in increased price competition for our products, increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories, increased risk in the collectability of our accounts receivable from our customers, increased risk in potential reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. We compete with many companies possessing far greater resources. Some of our competitors have greater financial, manufacturing, technical, sales and marketing resources than we have. We compete with domestic and foreign manufacturers of integrated power supplies and power conversion components. With the growth of our VI Chip and Picor product lines, we increasingly are competing with global manufacturers of power management products with far larger organizations and broader product lines. Competition is generally based on design and quality of products, product performance, features and functionality, and product pricing, availability and capacity, with the relative importance of these factors varying among products, markets and customers. Existing or new competitors may develop products or technologies that more effectively address the demands of our customers and markets with enhanced performance, features and functionality or lower cost. If we fail to continue to develop and commercialize leading-edge technologies and products that are cost effective and maintain high standards of quality, and introduce them to the market on a timely basis, our competitive position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our future success increasingly depends upon our ability to develop and market differentiated, leading-edge power conversion products for larger customers, potentially contributing to lengthy product development and sales cycles that may result in significant expenditures before revenues are generated. Our future operating results are dependent on the growth in such customers’ businesses and on our ability to profitably develop and deliver products meeting customer requirements. The power system industry and the industries in which many of our customers operate are characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change, product obsolescence and price erosion for mature products, each of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are following a strategy based on the development of differentiated products addressing what we believe to be the long-term limitations of traditional power architectures. The development of such new products is often a complex, time-consuming and costly process involving significant investment in research and development, with no assurance of return on investment. 16 Table of Contents There can be no assurance we will be able to develop and introduce new and improved products in a timely or efficient manner or new and improved products, if developed, will achieve market acceptance. Our future success depends substantially upon customer acceptance of our innovative products. As we have been in the early stages of market penetration for these products, we have experienced lengthy periods during which we have focused our product development efforts on the specific requirements of a limited number of large customers, followed by further periods of delay before meaningful purchase orders are received. These lengthy development and sales cycle times increase the possibility a customer may decide to cancel or change product plans, which could reduce or eliminate our sales to that customer. As a result, we may incur significant product development expenses, as well as significant sales and marketing expenses, before we generate the related revenues for these products. Furthermore, we may never generate the anticipated revenues from a product after incurring such expenses if our customer cancels or changes its product plans. We are shifting our market strategy to focus on larger opportunities with global manufacturers. Our growth is therefore dependent on the growth in the sales of these customers’ products as well as their own development of new products. If we fail to anticipate changes in our customers’ businesses and their changing product needs or successfully identify and enter new markets, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively impacted. We cannot assure you the markets we serve will grow in the future, our existing and new products will meet the requirements of these markets, or we can maintain adequate gross margins or profits in these markets. Further reductions of spending by the U.S. Department of Defense or a pronounced shift in the nature of such spending may negatively influence our operating results. Customers in the defense electronics segment historically have contributed a meaningful portion of the BBU’s revenue. However, shifts in Department of Defense spending priorities and ongoing budget constraints have contributed to a decline in such revenue as a percentage of our consolidated revenue. Defense electronics revenues represented approximately 31.5% of BBU revenue in 2012, in contrast to approximately 29.0% and 37.2% of BBU revenue in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Defense electronics customers have represented the majority of revenue for Vicor Custom Power, which designs and manufactures sophisticated power solutions for primarily C4I (Command, Control, Communications, Computing, and Intelligence) applications. Given uncertainty regarding project funding and the overall federal budget, we may experience further declines in orders and revenue from defense contractors. Our operating results recently have been influenced by a limited number of customers, and our future results may be similarly influenced. Since it was established, our VI Chip subsidiary has derived a substantial portion of its revenue from one customer, whether through sales directly to the customer or indirectly to the customer’s contract manufacturers. Similarly, our Picor subsidiary has derived a substantial portion of its third-party revenue from a limited number of customers. This concentration of revenue is a reflection of the relatively early stage of adoption of the technologies, architectures and products offered by these subsidiaries, and their targeting of market leading innovators as initial customers. Our current sales and marketing strategy is, in part, focused on accelerating the adoption of VI Chip and Picor products by a diversified customer base across a number of identified market segments. However, we cannot assure you our new strategy will be successful and such diversification of customers will be achieved. Growth in the VI Chip segment and the Vicor Custom Power business within the BBU over the last several years has come from either a limited number of customers or from a limited number of significant customer programs. A decline in or deferral of demand from one or several of these large customers or the discontinuation of certain programs, or declines in our other end-user markets in general, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. During 2012, certain large VI Chip customers, due to uncertain conditions in their own businesses, deferred placing purchase orders with us or deferred delivery of scheduled product shipments. 17 Table of Contents This contributed to the marked decline in bookings we experienced in 2012, and caused us to incur additional costs associated with managing our inventory levels and scheduling our production activity. We rely on third-party vendors and subcontractors for supply of components and assemblies and, therefore, cannot control the availability or quality of such components and assemblies. We depend on third party vendors and subcontractors to supply components and assemblies used in our products, some of which are supplied by a single vendor, and have experienced shortages of certain semiconductor components, incurred additional and unexpected costs to address the shortages, and experienced delays in production and shipping. If suppliers or subcontractors cannot provide their products or services on time or to our specifications, we may not be able to meet the demand for our products and our delivery times may be negatively affected. In addition, we cannot directly control the quality of the products and services provided by third parties. In order to grow revenue, we likely will need to identify and qualify new suppliers and subcontractors to supplant or replace existing suppliers and subcontractors. This may cause disruptions in production, delays in shipping, or increases in prices paid to third-parties. We may not be able to procure necessary key components for our products, or we may purchase excess raw material inventory or unusable inventory, possibly impacting our operating results. The power systems industry, and the electronics industry as a whole, can be subject to pronounced business cycles and otherwise subject to sudden and sharp changes in demand. Our success, in part, is dependent on our ability to forecast and procure inventories of raw materials and components to match production schedules and customer delivery requirements. Many of our products, notably VI Chip modules and Picor components, require raw materials supplied by a limited number of vendors and, in some instances, a single vendor. During certain periods, key materials required to build our products may become unavailable in the timeframe required for us to meet our customers’ needs. Our inability to secure sufficient materials and components to build products for our customers has, in the past, negatively impacted our sales and operating results and could do so again. We may choose to mitigate this risk by increasing the levels of inventory for certain raw materials and components. Such increased inventory levels may increase the potential risk for excess and obsolescence should our forecasts fail to materialize or if there are negative factors impacting our customers’ end markets, leading to order cancellation. If we purchase excess inventory or determine certain inventory is unusable, we may have to record additional inventory reserves or write-off the unneeded inventory, which could have an adverse effect on our gross margins and on our operating results, as was the case in the fourth quarter of 2012. Our revenues and profits may not increase enough to offset the expense of additional production capacity. We have made significant additions to our manufacturing equipment and capacity over the past several years, including equipment for both our new VI Chip products and for BBU products. If overall revenue levels do not increase enough to offset the increased fixed costs, or if there is deterioration in our overall business, our future operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, asset values could be impaired if the additional capacity is underutilized for an extended period of time, resulting in impairment charges that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. If we were unable to use our manufacturing facility in Andover, Massachusetts, we would not be able to manufacture for an extended period of time. All modular power components, whether for direct sale to customers or for sale to our subsidiaries and divisions for incorporation into their respective products, are manufactured at our Andover, Massachusetts, production facility. Substantial damage to this facility due to fire, natural disaster, power loss or other events could interrupt manufacturing. Any prolonged inability to utilize all or a significant portion of this facility could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We are exposed to foreign economic, political and other risks. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, our net revenues from sales outside the United States were 51.1%, 56.9%, and 49.2%, respectively, of the Company’s total net revenues. We expect international sales will continue to be a significant component of total sales, since many of the global manufacturers we target as customers increasingly utilize offshore contract manufacturers and rely upon those contract manufacturers to place orders directly with us. We also expect international revenue from our distributors to increase. In addition, during 2012 we established Technical Support Centers in Shanghai, China and Bangalore, India thereby increasing the number of our employees located outside of the United States and the percentage of resources and spending directed toward foreign activities. While our currency risks are limited, as our sales are denominated in dollars worldwide, with the exception of Japan, our international activities expose us to special risks including, but not limited to, regulatory requirements, economic and political instability, transportation delays, foreign currency controls and market fluctuations, trade barriers and tariffs, and foreign exchange rates. In addition, our international customers’ business may be negatively affected by the ongoing crisis in the global credit and financial markets. Sudden or unexpected changes in the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively. We operate in an industry in which the ability to compete depends on the development or acquisition of proprietary technologies that must be protected to preserve the exclusive use of such technologies. We devote substantial resources to establish and protect our patents and proprietary rights, and we rely on patent and intellectual property law to protect such rights. This protection, however, may not prevent competitors from independently developing products similar or superior to our products. We may be unable to protect or enforce current patents, may rely on unpatented technology that competitors could restrict, or may be unable to acquire patents in the future, and this may have a material adverse affect on our competitive position. In addition, the intellectual property laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as those of the United States. We have been and may need to continue to defend or challenge patents. We have incurred and expect to incur significant costs in and devote significant resources to these efforts which, if unsuccessful, may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. We face intellectual property infringement claims that could be disruptive to operations and costly to resolve and may encounter similar infringement claims in the future. The power supply industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. We have in the past and may in the future receive communications from third parties asserting that our products or manufacturing processes infringe on a third party’s patent or other intellectual property rights. Such assertions, if publicly disclosed, have in the past and may in the future inhibit the willingness of potential customers to purchase certain of our products. In the event a third party makes a valid intellectual property claim against us and a license is not available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, we could be forced to either redesign or stop production of products incorporating that technology, and our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, litigation may be necessary to defend us against claims of infringement, and this litigation could be costly and divert the attention of key personnel. An adverse outcome in these types of matters could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. In January 2011, we were named, along with our customer, Cisco Systems, Inc., in a complaint for patent infringement filed by SynQor, Inc. (see Part I—Item 3 — Legal Proceedings). We have filed a counterclaim asserting SynQor has engaged in unfair and deceptive trade practices and tortiously interfered with our ability to sell products. We also maintain SynQor’s claims are baseless and the patents in question are invalid and were obtained through inequitable conduct before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. However, SynQor’s actions have inhibited our ability to sell product to potential customers fearful of the threat of litigation by SynQor. We also have incurred substantial legal fees defending this matter. 19 Table of Contents We may face legal claims and litigation from product warranty or other claims that could be costly to resolve. We have in the past and may in the future encounter legal action from customers, vendors or others concerning product warranty or other claims. We generally offer a two-year warranty from the date title passes from us for all of our standard products. We invest significant resources in the testing of our products; however, if any of our products contain defects, we may be required to incur additional development and remediation costs, pursuant to our warranty policies. These issues may divert our technical and other resources from other product development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or others, including liability for costs associated with product returns, which may adversely impact our operating results. If any of our products contain defects, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective customers and could adversely affect our operating results. During 2012, we entered into supply agreements with certain customers contractually committing us to warranty and indemnification requirements exceeding those to which we have been exposed in the past. While we may increase our level of insurance coverage for such exposure, we have not yet done so and, we could incur significant financial cost, operational disruption, and damage to our competitive position and image if faced with a significant product warranty or other claim. Our ability to successfully implement our business strategy may be limited if we do not retain our key personnel and attract and retain skilled and experienced personnel. Our success depends on our ability to retain the services of our executive officers. The loss of one or more members of senior management could materially adversely affect our business and financial results. In particular, we are dependent on the services of Dr. Vinciarelli, our founder, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, and President. The loss of the services of Dr. Vinciarelli could have a material adverse effect on our development of new products and on our results of operations. In addition, we depend on highly skilled engineers and other personnel with technical skills that are in high demand and are difficult to replace. Our continued operations and growth depend on our ability to attract and retain skilled and experienced personnel in a very competitive employment market. If we are unable to attract and retain these employees, our ability to successfully implement our business strategy may be harmed. Disruption of our information technology infrastructure could adversely affect our business. We depend heavily on information technology infrastructure to achieve our business objectives, particularly our computer-integrated manufacturing processes that control all aspects of our operations in our manufacturing facility in Andover, Massachusetts. If a problem occurs impairing this infrastructure, the resulting disruption could impede our ability to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, or otherwise carry on business in the normal course. While we carry business interruption insurance that would mitigate losses to an extent, such insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses. Any such events, if prolonged, could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our computing and communications systems are designed to protect us from network disruptions and security breaches. However, we are subject to network disruptions or security breaches caused by computer viruses, illegal break-ins or malicious hacking, sabotage, acts of vandalism by third parties, or terrorism. Our security measures or those of our third party service providers may not detect or prevent such network disruptions or security breaches. Any such compromise of our systems security could result in the unauthorized publication of our confidential business or proprietary information, cause an interruption in our operations, result in the unauthorized release of customer or employee data, result in a violation of privacy or other laws, expose us to a risk of litigation or damage our reputation, which could have a material and adverse affect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as significantly harm our business. 20 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls or discover material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or timely or detect fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. An effective internal control environment is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is an important part of our effort to prevent financial fraud. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements and to continuously improve and remediate internal controls over financial reporting. While management evaluates the effectiveness of our internal controls on a regular basis, these controls may not always be effective. There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls, including collusion, management override, and failure in human judgment. In addition, control procedures are designed to reduce rather than eliminate business risks. In the event that our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under Section 404, we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, which could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by government authorities or self-regulatory organizations, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission or The NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC. Any such actions could affect investor perceptions of the Company and result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common shares to decline or limit our access to capital. New regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals (including gold, tantalum, tin, and tungsten, and their related ores), originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo (“DRC”) and adjoining countries. As a result, in August 2012 the SEC released final rules for annual disclosure and reporting for those companies who use conflict minerals mined from the DRC and adjoining countries in their products. While these new requirements will require due diligence efforts in 2013, with initial disclosure requirements beginning in May 2014, we began to implement processes within our supply chain to comply beginning in 2012. There will be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including due diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. The implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering “conflict free” conflict minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict minerals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we may implement. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 