ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of, among other factors, the risk factors set forth below. Our future operating results are difficult to predict and are subject to fluctuations. Our future operating results, including revenues, gross margins, operating expenses and net income (loss), have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis, are difficult to predict, and may be materially affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • the effects of adverse economic conditions in the United States and international markets, especially in light of the continued challenges in global credit and financial markets; • changes in customer demand for our products and for end products that incorporate our products; • the timing of our new product announcements or introductions, as well as those by our competitors; • our ability to effectively coordinate changes in the mix of products we manufacture and sell, while managing our ongoing transition in organizational focus from traditional brick power components to our new V*I Chip, VI Brick and Picor products; • our ability to provide and maintain a high level of support to an increasing number of large, high volume customers; • the level of demand and purchase orders from our customers, and our ability to adjust to changes in demand and purchase order patterns; • changes in order lead times and our “turns” volumes (i.e., the volumes of purchase orders received and shipped within an individual quarter); • the timing, delay or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability to manage inventory; • the ability of our third party suppliers, subcontractors and manufactures to supply us with sufficient quantities of high quality products or components, on a timely basis; • the effectiveness of our efforts to reduce product costs and manage operating expenses; • our ability to utilize our manufacturing facilities at efficient levels, maintaining production capacity and manufacturing yields; • the ability to hire, retain and motivate qualified employees to meet the demands of our customers; • intellectual property disputes; • potential significant litigation-related costs; • costs related to compliance with increasing worldwide environmental and other regulations; and • the effects of public health emergencies, natural disasters, security risk, terrorist activities, international conflicts and other events beyond our control. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot assure you that we will not experience significant fluctuations in future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition, if our operating results do not meet the expectations of investors, the market price of our Common Stock may decline. Our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future. The trading price of our Common Stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. Such fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, including: • the recent unprecedented volatility of the financial markets; 14 Table of Contents • uncertainty regarding the prospects of domestic and foreign economies; • uncertainty regarding domestic and international political conditions, including tax policies; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating performance; • the performance and prospects of our major customers; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant new products, technical innovations or litigation; • investor perception of our company and the industry in which we operate; • the absence of earnings estimates and supporting research by investment analysts; • the liquidity of the market for our Common Stock; • the uncertainty of the declaration and payment of future cash dividends on our Common Stock; and • the concentration of ownership of our Common Stock by Dr. Vinciarelli, our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, and President. Public stock markets have recently experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility. This volatility significantly and negatively affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies, including the market price of our Common Stock in late 2008, early 2009, and again in the second half of 2011. The return of such volatility could result in broad market fluctuations that could materially and adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock for indefinite periods. In addition, fluctuations in our stock price, volume of shares traded, and changes in our trading multiples may make our stock attractive to certain categories of investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction. The ownership of our Common Stock is concentrated between Dr. Vinciarelli and a limited number of institutional investors. Dr. Vinciarelli owned, as of December 31, 2011, 9,675,480 shares of our Common Stock, as well as 11,023,648 shares of our Class B Common Stock (convertible on a one-for-one basis into Common Stock), together representing 50.5% of total issued and outstanding shares. Certain institutional investors have been long-term owners of our Common Stock and held in aggregate, as of September 30, 2011 (the most recent reporting date for institutional holders), over 15% of our issued and outstanding shares. Accordingly, the market float for our Common Stock and average daily trading volumes are relatively small, which can negatively impact investors’ ability to buy or sell shares of our Common Stock in a timely manner. We do not actively communicate with investment analysts and, as a consequence, there are no earnings estimates or supporting research coverage of our company. Because operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis, investors may have difficulty in assessing our current and future performance. In the past, we have declared and paid cash dividends on our Common Stock. The payment of dividends is based on the periodic determination by the Board of Directors that we have adequate capital to fund anticipated operating requirements and that excess cash is available for distribution to shareholders via a dividend. We have no formal policy regarding dividends and, as such, investors cannot make assumptions regarding the possibility of future dividend payments nor the amounts and timing thereof. Dr. Vinciarelli owns 93.7% of our issued and outstanding Class B shares, which possess 10 votes per share. (Dr. Estia J. Eichten, a member of our Board of Directors, owns the majority of the balance of Class B shares issued and outstanding.) As such, Dr. Vinciarelli, controlling in aggregate 81.3% of share voting power, has effective control of the governance of the Company. The ongoing disruptions in the global economy, as well as continued uncertainty in global financial markets, could materially and adversely affect our business and consolidated operating results. Global economic conditions remain uncertain. Further disruption and deterioration in inter-related global economic conditions may reduce customer purchases of our products, thereby reducing our revenues and 15 Table of Contents earnings. In addition, such adverse conditions may, among other things, result in increased price competition for our products, increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories, increased risk in the collectability of our accounts receivable from our customers, increased risk in potential reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. The ongoing European debt crisis and related financial restructuring efforts have contributed to the instability of global financial markets and regional economies. The debt crisis in Europe could cause further deterioration of the value of the Euro relative to the U.S. dollar, thus reducing the purchasing power of our European customers. If a European economic recession occurs in 2012, we could experience a significant decline in revenue and profitability, as European activities represented over one third of our international revenue in 2011. China recently has experienced a deceleration of its rapid rise to be the world’s second largest economy. While robust, high single-digit growth is expected for China’s economy in 2012, this expectation does not take into consideration the impact of a European recession on China’s export activity. Also, certain industrial sectors may experience further slowing of growth or actual contraction, as the Chinese government shifts priorities to meet state objectives. Such shifts or continued deceleration of Chinese economic growth may have a material and adverse affect on our revenue and profitability in the Asia-Pacific region, which represented, exclusive of Japan, approximately one half of our international revenue in 2011. VJCL, which serves Japan exclusively and represented less than 10% of our international revenue in 2011, experienced relatively stable performance for the year, despite poor domestic economic conditions and the natural disasters of March 2011. While the Japanese economy has structural weaknesses, it is expected to expand slightly in 2012, despite the global risks to its export-oriented economy. However, recession in Europe, further deterioration of the Euro relative to the Yen, or reduced export demand from China could have a material and adverse affect on our revenue and profitability in Japan. Any of these inter-related conditions and circumstances individually, or in combination, could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We compete with many companies possessing far greater resources. Some of our competitors have greater financial, manufacturing, technical, sales and marketing resources than we have. We compete with domestic and foreign manufacturers of integrated power supplies and power conversion components. With the growth of our V*I Chip and Picor product lines, we increasingly are competing with global manufacturers of power management products. Competition is generally based on design and quality of products, product performance, features and functionality, and product pricing, availability and capacity, with the relative importance of these factors varying among products, markets and customers. Existing or new competitors may develop products or technologies that more effectively address the demands of our customers and markets with enhanced performance, features and functionality or lower cost. If we fail to continue to develop and commercialize leading-edge technologies and products that are cost effective and maintain high standards of quality, and introduce them to the market on a timely basis, our competitive position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our future success increasingly depends upon our ability to develop and market differentiated, leading-edge power conversion products for larger customers, potentially contributing to lengthy product development and sales cycles that may result in significant expenditures before revenues are generated. Our future operating results are dependent on the growth in such customers’ businesses and on our ability to profitably develop and deliver products meeting customer requirements. The power system industry and the industries in which many of our customers operate are characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change, product obsolescence and price erosion for mature products, each of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are following a strategy based on the 16 Table of Contents development of differentiated products addressing what we believe to be the long-term limitations of traditional power architectures. The development of such new products is often a complex, time-consuming and costly process involving significant investment in research and development, with no assurance of return on investment. There can be no assurance we will be able to develop and introduce new and improved products in a timely or efficient manner or new and improved products, if developed, will achieve market acceptance. Our future success depends substantially upon customer acceptance of our innovative products. As we have been in the early stages of market penetration for these products, we have experienced lengthy periods during which we have focused our product development efforts on the specific requirements of a limited number of large customers, followed by further periods of delay before meaningful purchase orders are received. These lengthy development and sales cycle times increase the possibility a customer may decide to cancel or change product plans, which could reduce or eliminate our sales to that customer. As a result, we may incur significant product development expenses, as well as significant sales and marketing expenses, before we generate the related revenues for these products. Furthermore, we may never generate the anticipated revenues from a product after incurring such expenses if our customer cancels or changes its product plans. We are shifting our market strategy to focus on larger opportunities with global manufacturers. Our growth is therefore dependent on the growth in the sales of these customers’ products as well as their own development of new products. If we fail to anticipate changes in our customers’ businesses and their changing product needs or successfully identify and enter new markets, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively impacted. We cannot assure you the markets we serve will grow in the future, our existing and new products will meet the requirements of these markets, or we can maintain adequate gross margins or profits in these markets. Further reductions of spending by the U.S. Department of Defense or a pronounced shift in the nature of such spending may negatively influence our operating results. Customers in the defense electronics segment have contributed a meaningful portion of the BBU’s revenue to date. Such revenues represented approximately 29% of BBU revenue in 2011, down from approximately 37% in 2010. Defense electronics customers have represented the majority of revenue for Vicor Custom Power, which designs and manufactures sophisticated power solutions for primarily C4I (Command, Control, Communications, Computing, and Intelligence) applications. Recent reductions in Department of Defense spending, particularly those associated with reduced troop deployment in Iraq, have resulted in declines in orders and revenue from certain defense contractors. As the Department of Defense re-prioritizes spending to address both current requirements and federal budget constraints, we may experience further declines in orders and revenue from defense contractors. Customers in defense electronics typically place orders with us based on the requirements of certain platform programs that may continue over several years, and the conclusion or termination of such programs may negatively influence our operating results. Two such programs, cumulatively representing approximately $8 million and $28 million of revenue for Vicor Custom Power in 2011 and 2010, respectively, were substantially concluded by the first quarter of 2011. While we currently do not have any single program approaching the magnitude of these two programs, our operating results may be negatively impacted by the termination of any program by the Department of Defense. Our operating results recently have been influenced by a limited number of customers, and our future results may be similarly influenced. Since it was established, our V*I Chip subsidiary has derived a substantial portion of its revenue from one customer, whether through sales directly to the customer or indirectly to the customer’s contract manufacturers. Similarly, our Picor subsidiary has derived a substantial portion of its third-party revenue from a limited number of customers. This concentration of revenue is a reflection of the relatively early stage of adoption of the technologies, architectures and products offered by these subsidiaries, and their targeting of market leading 17 Table of Contents innovators as initial customers. Our new sales and marketing strategy is, in part, focused on accelerating the adoption of V*I Chip and Picor products by a diversified customer base across a number of identified market segments. However, we cannot assure you our new strategy will be successful and such diversification of customers will be achieved. Growth in the V*I Chip segment and the Vicor Custom Power business within the BBU over the last several years has come from either a limited number of customers or from a limited number of significant customer programs. A decline in or deferral of demand from one or several of these large customers or the discontinuation of certain programs, or declines in our other end-user markets in general, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Vicor Custom Power experienced a significant revenue decrease in 2011 due to the completion of two major programs in the first part of 2011. In addition, several large V*I Chip customers, due to uncertain conditions in their own businesses, deferred placing purchase orders with us or deferred delivery of scheduled product shipments during 2011. As a result, we incurred additional costs associated with managing our inventory levels and scheduling our production activity. We rely on third-party vendors and subcontractors for supply of components and assemblies and, therefore, cannot control the availability or quality of such components and assemblies. We depend on third party vendors and subcontractors to supply components and assemblies used in our products, some of which are supplied by a single vendor. In the third and fourth quarters of 2011, we experienced shortages of certain semiconductor components, supplied by a single vendor, and incurred additional and unexpected costs to address the shortages, while experiencing delays in production and shipping. If suppliers or subcontractors cannot provide their products or services on time or to our specifications, we may not be able to meet the demand for our products and our delivery times may be negatively affected. In addition, we cannot directly control the quality of the products and services provided by third parties. In order to grow, we likely will need to identify and qualify new suppliers and subcontractors to supplant or replace existing suppliers and subcontractors. This may cause disruptions in production, delays in shipping, or increases in prices paid to third-parties. We may not be able to procure necessary key components for our products, or we may purchase excess raw material inventory or unusable inventory, possibly impacting our operating results. The power systems industry, and the electronics industry as a whole, can be subject to pronounced business cycles and otherwise subject to sudden and sharp changes in demand. Our success, in part, is dependent on our ability to forecast and procure inventories of raw materials and components to match production schedules and customer delivery requirements. Many of our products, notably V*I Chip modules and Picor components, require raw materials supplied by a limited number of vendors and, in some instances, a single vendor. During periods of demand growth, key materials required to build our products may become unavailable in the timeframe required for us to meet our customers’ needs. Our inability to secure sufficient materials and components to build products for our customers could negatively impact our sales and operating results. We may choose to mitigate this risk by increasing the levels of inventory for certain raw materials and components. Such increased inventory levels may increase the potential risk for excess and obsolescence should our forecasts fail to materialize or if there are negative factors impacting our customers’ end markets, leading to order cancellation. If we purchase excess inventory or determine certain inventory is unusable, we may have to record additional inventory reserves or write-off the unneeded inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and on our operating results. Our revenues and profits may not increase enough to offset the expense of additional production capacity. We have made significant additions to our manufacturing equipment and capacity over the past several years, including equipment for both our new V*I Chip products and for BBU products. During 2010 and 2011, we added equipment to the V*I Chip production lines that more than doubled production capacity. We have also replaced certain equipment and added new, more efficient equipment for certain processes on the BBU 18 Table of Contents production lines. If overall revenue levels do not increase enough to offset the increased fixed costs, or if there is deterioration in our overall business, our future operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, asset values could be impaired if the additional capacity is underutilized for an extended period of time, resulting in impairment charges that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. If we were unable to use our manufacturing facility in Andover, Massachusetts, we would not be able to manufacture for an extended period of time. All modular power components, whether for direct sale to customers or for sale to our subsidiaries and divisions for incorporation into their respective products, are manufactured at our Andover, Massachusetts, production facility. Substantial damage to this facility due to fire, natural disaster, power loss or other events could interrupt manufacturing. Any prolonged inability to utilize all or a significant portion of this facility could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are exposed to foreign economic, political and other risks. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, our net revenues from sales outside the United States were 57%, 49%, and 41%, respectively, of the Company’s total net revenues. We expect international sales will continue to be a significant component of total sales, since many of the global manufacturers we target as customers increasingly utilize offshore contract manufacturers and rely upon those contract manufacturers to place orders directly with us. We also expect international revenue from our distributors to increase. While our currency risks are limited, as our sales are denominated in dollars worldwide, with the exception of Japan, our international activities expose us to special risks including, but not limited to, regulatory requirements, economic and political instability, transportation delays, foreign currency controls and market fluctuations, trade barriers and tariffs, and foreign exchange rates. In addition, our international customers’ business may be negatively affected by the ongoing crisis in the global credit and financial markets. Sudden or unexpected changes in the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively. We operate in an industry in which the ability to compete depends on the development or acquisition of proprietary technologies that must be protected to preserve the exclusive use of such technologies. We devote substantial resources to establish and protect our patents and proprietary rights, and we rely on patent and intellectual property law to protect such rights. This protection, however, may not prevent competitors from independently developing products similar or superior to our products. We may be unable to protect or enforce current patents, may rely on unpatented technology that competitors could restrict, or may be unable to acquire patents in the future, and this may have a material adverse affect on our competitive position. In addition, the intellectual property laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as those of the United States. We have been and may need to continue to defend or challenge patents. We have incurred and expect to incur significant costs in and devote significant resources to these efforts which, if unsuccessful, may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be costly to resolve. The power supply industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. We may in the future receive communications from third parties asserting that our products or manufacturing processes infringe on a third party’s patent or other intellectual property rights. In January 2011, we were named in a complaint for patent infringement filed by SynQor, Inc. (see Part I — Item 3 — Legal Proceedings). In the event a third party makes a valid intellectual property claim against us and a license is not available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, we could be forced to either redesign or stop production of products incorporating that technology, and our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, 19 Table of Contents litigation may be necessary to defend us against claims of infringement, and this litigation could be costly and divert the attention of key personnel. An adverse outcome in these types of matters could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. We may face legal claims and litigation from product warranty or other claims that could be costly to resolve. We may in the future encounter legal action from customers, vendors or others concerning product warranty or other claims. We generally offer a two-year warranty from the date title passes from us for all of our standard products. We invest significant resources in the testing of our products; however, if any of our products contain defects, we may be required to incur additional development and remediation costs, pursuant to our warranty policies. These issues may divert our technical and other resources from other product development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or others, including liability for costs associated with product returns, which may adversely impact our operating results. If any of our products contains defects, or has reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective customers and could adversely affect our operating results. Our ability to successfully implement our business strategy may be limited if we do not retain our key personnel and attract and retain skilled and experienced personnel. Our success depends on our ability to retain the services of our executive officers. The loss of one or more members of senior management could materially adversely affect our business and financial results. In particular, we are dependent on the services of Dr. Vinciarelli, our founder, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, and President. The loss of the services of Dr. Vinciarelli could have a material adverse effect on our development of new products and on our results of operations. In addition, we depend on highly skilled engineers and other personnel with technical skills that are in high demand and are difficult to replace. Our continued operations and growth depend on our ability to attract and retain skilled and experienced personnel in a very competitive employment market. If we are unable to attract and retain these employees, our ability to successfully implement our business strategy may be harmed. Disruption of our information technology infrastructure could adversely affect our business. We depend heavily on information technology infrastructure to achieve our business objectives, particularly our computer-integrated manufacturing processes that control all aspects of our operations in our manufacturing facility in Andover, Massachusetts. If a problem occurs impairing this infrastructure, the resulting disruption could impede our ability to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, or otherwise carry on business in the normal course. While we carry business interruption insurance that would mitigate losses to an extent, such insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses. Any such events, if prolonged, could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our computing and communications systems are designed to protect us from network disruptions and security breaches. However, we are subject to network disruptions or security breaches caused by computer viruses, illegal break-ins or malicious hacking, sabotage, acts of vandalism by third parties, or terrorism. Our security measures or those of our third party service providers may not detect or prevent such network disruptions or security breaches. Any such compromise of our systems security could result in the unauthorized publication of our confidential business or proprietary information, cause an interruption in our operations, result in the unauthorized release of customer or employee data, result in a violation of privacy or other laws, expose us to a risk of litigation or damage our reputation, which could have a material and adverse affect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as significantly harm our business. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls or discover material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or timely or detect fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. An effective internal control environment is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is an important part of our effort to prevent financial fraud. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires 20 Table of Contents our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements and to continuously improve and remediate internal controls over financial reporting. While management evaluates the effectiveness of our internal controls on a regular basis, these controls may not always be effective. There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls, including collusion, management override, and failure in human judgment. In addition, control procedures are designed to reduce rather than eliminate business risks. In the event that our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under Section 404, we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, which could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by government authorities or self-regulatory organizations, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission or The NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC. Any such actions could affect investor perceptions of the Company and result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common shares to decline or limit our access to capital. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 