ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of, among other factors, the risk factors set forth below. Our future operating results are difficult to predict and are subject to fluctuations. Our future operating results, including revenues, gross margins, operating expenses and net income (loss), have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis, are difficult to predict, and may be materially affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • the effects of adverse economic conditions in the United States and international markets, especially in light of the continued challenges in global credit and financial markets; • changes in customer demand for our products and for end products that incorporate our products; • the timing of our new product announcements or introductions, as well as those by our competitors; • our ability to effectively coordinate changes in the mix of products we manufacture and sell, while managing our ongoing transition in organizational focus from traditional brick power components to our new V*I Chip, VI Brick and Picor products; • the level of demand and purchase orders from our customers, and our ability to adjust to changes in demand and purchase order patterns; • changes in order lead times and our “turns” volumes (i.e., the volumes of purchase orders received and shipped within an individual quarter); • the timing, delay or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability to manage inventory; • the ability of our third party suppliers, subcontractors and manufactures to supply us with sufficient quantities of high quality products or components, on a timely basis; • the effectiveness of our efforts to reduce product costs and manage operating expenses; • our ability to utilize our manufacturing facilities at efficient levels, maintaining production capacity and manufacturing yields; • the ability to hire, retain and motivate qualified employees to meet the demands of our customers; • intellectual property disputes; • potential significant litigation-related costs; • costs related to compliance with increasing worldwide environmental and other regulations; and • the effects of public health emergencies, natural disasters, security risk, terrorist activities, international conflicts and other events beyond our control. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot assure you that we will not experience significant fluctuations in future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition, if our operating results do not meet the expectations of investors, the market price of our common stock may decline. Our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future. The trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. Such fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, including: • the recent unprecedented volatility of the financial markets; • uncertainty regarding the prospects of domestic and foreign economies; 12 • uncertainty regarding domestic and international political conditions, including tax policies; • our performance and prospects; • the performance and prospects of our major customers; • investor perception of our company and the industry in which we operate; • the absence of earnings estimates and supporting research by investment analysts; • the liquidity of the market for our common stock; • the uncertainty of the declaration and payment of future cash dividends on our common stock; and • the concentration of ownership of our common stock by Dr. Vinciarelli, our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, and President. Public stock markets have recently experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility. This volatility significantly and negatively affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies, including the market price of our common stock in late 2008 and early 2009. The return of such volatility could result in broad market fluctuations that could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock for indefinite periods. In addition, fluctuations in our stock price, volume of shares traded, and changes in our trading multiples may make our stock attractive to certain categories of investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction. The ownership of our common stock is concentrated between Dr. Vinciarelli and a limited number of institutional investors. Dr. Vinciarelli owned, as of December 31, 2010, 9,675,480 shares of our common stock, as well as 11,023,648 shares of our Class B common stock (convertible on a one-for-one basis into common stock), together representing 50.5% of total issued and outstanding shares. Certain institutional investors have been long-term owners of our common stock and held in aggregate, as of September 30, 2010 (the most recent reporting date for institutional holders), over 15% of our issued and outstanding shares. Accordingly, the market float for our common stock and average daily trading volumes are relatively small, which can negatively impact investors’ ability to buy or sell shares of our common stock in a timely manner. We do not actively communicate with investment analysts and, as a consequence, there are no earnings estimates or supporting research coverage of our company. Because operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis, investors may have difficulty in assessing our current and future performance. In the past, we have declared and paid cash dividends on our common stock. The payment of dividends is based on the periodic determination by the Board of Directors that we have adequate capital to fund anticipated operating requirements and that excess cash is available for distribution to shareholders via a dividend. We have no formal policy regarding dividends and, as such, investors cannot make assumptions regarding the possibility of future dividend payments nor the amounts and timing thereof. Dr. Vinciarelli owns 93.7% of our issued and outstanding Class B shares, which possess 10 votes per share. (Dr. Estia J. Eichten, a member of our Board of Directors, owns the balance of Class B shares issued and outstanding.) As such, Dr. Vinciarelli, controlling in aggregate 81.3% of share voting power, has effective control of the governance of the Company. The ongoing disruptions in the global economy, as well as continued uncertainty in global financial markets, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. While global credit and financial markets appear to be recovering from extreme disruptions experienced over the past two years, uncertainty about continuing economic stability remains. Global financial markets continue to experience disruptions, including diminished liquidity and credit availability. In particular, the recent European debt crisis and related financial restructuring efforts has contributed to the instability in global credit markets. Further disruption and deterioration in economic conditions may reduce customer purchases of our products, thereby reducing our revenues and earnings. In addition, such adverse conditions may, among other things, result in increased price competition for our products, increased risk of excess and obsolete 13 inventories, increased risk in the collectability of our accounts receivable from our customers, increased risk in potential reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. The recent debt crisis in certain European countries could cause the value of the Euro to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power of our European customers. Any of these items individually, or in combination, could materially and adversely affect our business and the results of operations. In 2009, we took actions to address the effects of the economic crisis, including a reduction in force and the implementation of cost control and reduction efforts. While these actions contributed to the positive operating results in 2010, it is possible that we may need to take further cost control and reduction efforts if economic conditions deteriorate again. We compete with many companies possessing far greater resources. Some of our competitors have greater financial, manufacturing, technical, sales and marketing resources than we have. We compete with domestic and foreign manufacturers of integrated power supplies and power conversion components. With the growth of our V*I Chip and Picor product lines, we increasingly are competing with global manufacturers of power management products. Competition is generally based on design and quality of products, product performance, features and functionality, and product pricing, availability and capacity, with the relative importance of these factors varying among products, markets and customers. Existing or new competitors may develop products or technologies that more effectively address the demands of our customers and markets with enhanced performance, features and functionality or lower cost. If we fail to continue to develop and commercialize leading-edge technologies and products that are cost effective and maintain high standards of quality, and introduce them to the market on a timely basis, our competitive position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our future success increasingly depends upon our ability to develop and market differentiated, leading-edge power conversion products for larger customers, potentially contributing to lengthy product development and sales cycles that may result in significant expenditures before revenues are generated. The power system industry and the industries in which many of our customers operate are characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change, product obsolescence and price erosion for mature products, each of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are following a strategy based on the development of differentiated products addressing what we believe to be the long-term limitations of traditional power architectures. The development of such new products is often a complex, time-consuming and costly process involving significant investment in research and development, with no assurance of return on investment. There can be no assurance we will be able to develop and introduce new and improved products in a timely or efficient manner or new and improved products, if developed, will achieve market acceptance. Our future success depends substantially upon customer acceptance of our innovative products. As we have been in the early stages of market penetration for these products, we have experienced lengthy periods during which we have focused our product development efforts on the specific requirements of a limited number of large customers, followed by further periods of delay before meaningful purchase orders are received. These lengthy development and sales cycle times increases the possibility that a customer may decide to cancel or change product plans, which could reduce or eliminate our sales to that customer. As a result, we may incur significant product development expenses, as well as significant sales and marketing expenses, before we generate the related revenues for these products. Furthermore, we may never generate the anticipated revenues from a product after incurring such expenses if our customer cancels or changes its product plans. Our future operating results are dependent on the growth in our customers’ businesses and on our ability to identify and enter new markets. We manufacture modular power components and power systems that are incorporated into our customers’ electronic products. Our growth is therefore dependent on the growth in the sales of our customers’ products as well as the development by our customers of new products. If we fail to anticipate changes in our customers’ businesses and their changing product needs or successfully identify and enter new markets, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively impacted. We cannot assure you that the 14 markets we serve will grow in the future, that our existing and new products will meet the requirements of these markets or that we can maintain adequate gross margins or profits in these markets. In particular, revenue growth in the V*I Chip segment and the Vicor Custom Power group over the last several years has come from either a limited number of customers or from a limited number of significant customer programs. A decline in or deferral of demand from one or several of these large customers or the discontinuation of certain programs, or declines in our other end-user markets in general, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In 2009 and 2010 several large customers, due to uncertain conditions in their own businesses, deferred placing purchase orders with us and/or deferred delivery of scheduled product shipments. As a result, we incurred additional costs associated with managing our inventory levels and scheduling our production activity. In addition, our increased focus on either a limited number of customers or a limited number of significant customer programs, as well as our experience with the deferred purchase orders and/or delivery of certain scheduled product shipments, have contributed to large variances in our reported quarterly ratio of bookings to billings. Accordingly, comparison of our “book to bill” ratios on a quarter-to-quarter basis can be misleading and may not accurately represent revenue trends. We rely on third-party vendors and subcontractors for supply of components and assemblies and, therefore, cannot control their availability or quality. We depend on third party vendors and subcontractors to supply components and assemblies used in our products, some of which are sole-sourced. If suppliers or subcontractors cannot provide their products or services on time or to our specifications, we may not be able to meet the demand for our products and our delivery times may be negatively affected. In addition, we cannot directly control the quality of the products and services provided by third parties. In order to grow, we may need to find new or change existing suppliers and subcontractors. This could cause disruptions in production, delays in the shipping of product or increases in prices paid to third-parties. We may not be able to procure necessary key components for our products, or we may purchase excess raw material inventory or unusable inventory, possibly impacting our results of operations. The power systems industry, and the electronics industry as a whole, can be subject to pronounced business cycles and otherwise subject to sudden and sharp changes in demand. Our success, in part, is dependent on our ability to forecast and procure inventories of raw materials and components to match production schedules and customer delivery requirements. Many of our products, notably V*I Chip modules and Picor PSiPs, require raw materials and components supplied by a limited number of vendors and, in some instances, a single vendor. During periods of demand growth, key materials and components required to build our products may become unavailable in the timeframe required for us to meet our customers’ needs. Our inability to secure sufficient materials and components to build products for our customers could negatively impact our sales and operating results. We may choose to mitigate this risk by increasing the levels of inventory for certain raw materials and components. Such increased inventory levels may increase the potential risk for excess and obsolescence should our forecasts fail to materialize or if there are negative factors impacting our customers’ end markets, leading to order cancellation. If we purchase excess inventory or determine certain inventory is unusable, we may have to record additional inventory reserves or write-off the unneeded inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and on our results of operations. Our revenues and profits may not increase enough to offset the expense of additional production capacity. We have made significant additions to our manufacturing equipment and capacity over the past several years, including equipment for both our new V*I Chip products and for BBU products. During 2010, we added equipment to the V*I Chip production lines that more than doubled production capacity. We have also replaced certain equipment and added new, more efficient equipment for certain processes on the BBU production lines. If overall revenue levels do not increase enough to offset the increased fixed costs, or significant revenues do not materialize for the V*I Chip products, or if there is deterioration in our overall business, our future operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, asset values could be impaired if the additional capacity is underutilized for an extended period of time, resulting in impairment charges that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 15 If we were unable to use our manufacturing facility in Andover, Massachusetts, we would not be able to manufacture for an extended period of time. All modular power components, whether for direct sale to customers or for sale to our subsidiaries and divisions for incorporation into their respective products, are manufactured at our Andover, Massachusetts, production facility. Substantial damage to this facility due to fire, natural disaster, power loss or other events could interrupt manufacturing. Any prolonged inability to utilize all or a significant portion of this facility could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are exposed to foreign economic, political and other risks. International sales have been and are expected to be a significant component of total sales. Dependence on unaffiliated third party distributors for our international sales exposes us to special risks, such as foreign economic and political instability, foreign currency controls and market fluctuations, trade barriers and tariffs, foreign regulations and exchange rates. Our international customers’ business may be negatively affected by the current crisis in the global credit and financial markets. Sudden or unexpected changes in the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively. We operate in an industry in which the ability to compete depends on the development or acquisition of proprietary technologies that must be protected to preserve the exclusive use of such technologies. We devote substantial resources to establish and protect our patents and proprietary rights, and we rely on patent and intellectual property law to protect such rights. This protection, however, may not prevent competitors from independently developing products similar or superior to our products. We may be unable to protect or enforce current patents, may rely on unpatented technology that competitors could restrict, or may be unable to acquire patents in the future, and this may have a material adverse affect on our competitive position. In addition, the intellectual property laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as those of the United States. We have been and may need to continue to defend or challenge patents. We have incurred and expect to incur significant costs in and devote significant resources to these efforts which, if unsuccessful, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be costly to resolve. The power supply industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. We may in the future receive communications from third parties asserting that our products or manufacturing processes infringe on a third party’s patent or other intellectual property rights. In January 2011, we were named in a complaint for patent infringement filed by SynQor, Inc. (see Part I — Item 3- Legal Proceedings). In the event a third party makes a valid intellectual property claim against us and a license is not available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, we could be forced to either redesign or stop production of products incorporating that technology, and our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, litigation may be necessary to defend us against claims of infringement, and this litigation could be costly and divert the attention of key personnel. An adverse outcome in these types of matters could have a material adverse impact on the results of our operations and financial condition. We may face legal claims and litigation from product warranty or other claims that could be costly to resolve. We may in the future encounter legal action from customers, vendors or others concerning product warranty or other claims. We generally offer a two-year warranty from the date title passes from us for all of our standard products. We invest significant resources in the testing of our products; however, if any of our products contain defects, we may be required to incur additional development and remediation costs, pursuant to our warranty policies. These issues may divert our technical and other resources from other product development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or others, including liability for 16 costs associated with product returns, which may adversely impact our operating results. If any of our products contains defects, or has reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged, which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective customers and could adversely affect our operating results. Our ability to successfully implement our business strategy may be limited if we do not retain our key personnel and attract and retain skilled and experienced personnel. Our success depends on our ability to retain the services of our executive officers. The loss of one or more members of senior management could materially adversely affect our business and financial results. In particular, we are dependent on the services of Dr. Vinciarelli, our founder, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, and President. The loss of the services of Dr. Vinciarelli could have a material adverse effect on our development of new products and on our results of operations. In addition, we depend on highly skilled engineers and other personnel with technical skills that are in high demand and are difficult to replace. Our continued operations and growth depend on our ability to attract and retain skilled and experienced personnel in a very competitive employment market. If we are unable to attract and retain these employees, our ability to successfully implement our business strategy may be harmed. Funds associated with our investments in auction rate securities may not be accessible at par value in the short term, and given this illiquidity, we may be required to make additional adjustments to their carrying value. As of December 31, 2010, we held $19,075,000 of auction rate securities at par value, consisting of collateralized debt obligations, supported by pools of student loans, sponsored by state student loan agencies and corporate student loan servicing firms. We purchased these securities through the investment banking affiliate of Bank of America, N.A. Before February 2008, the investment banks conducting the periodic “Dutch auctions” by which interest rates for the securities had been established had committed their capital to support such auctions in the event of insufficient third-party investor demand. Starting the week of February 11, 2008, a substantial number of auctions failed, as demand from third-party investors weakened and the investment banks conducting the auctions chose not to commit capital to support such auctions (i.e., investment banks chose not to purchase securities themselves in order to balance supply and demand, thereby facilitating a successful auction, as they had done in the past). We accepted a settlement offer from UBS AG (“UBS”) in November 2008, and, as called for in the settlement, UBS purchased the then outstanding par value of $8,600,000 of auction rate securities purchased through UBS on June 30, 2010. However, we have received no settlement offer from Bank of America to date. While we do not currently anticipate the lack of liquidity of our auction rate securities to adversely affect our ability to conduct business, the funds associated with auction rate securities may not be accessible until a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, the security is called or the underlying securities have matured. In order to record the value of our auction rate securities appropriately each quarter, we have estimated their market value and recorded an impairment charge. Deemed “available-for-sale”, these securities are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, attributable to credit loss recorded through the statement of operations and unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, attributable to other non-credit factors reported in “Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income,” a component of Stockholders’ Equity. We periodically evaluate if an investment is considered impaired, whether impairment is other than temporary, and the measurement of an impairment loss. The following circumstances, among others, may cause us to record such impairment charges to our Consolidated Statements of Operations: • the default of an issuer or a specific security of that issuer; • the significant deterioration of the credit rating of a security or its issuer; • a tender offer for a specific security from the issuer valuing the security at less than par that is accepted by the number of holders necessary to require all holders to tender their securities; and 17 • development of a robust secondary market for auction rate securities, establishing an active market value for our securities or similar securities that represents a substantial discount to par. Such impairment charges or, in the event of a sale, realized losses could be material in amount and be detrimental to our financial position, potentially impacting our ability to fund operations. Changes in our effective tax rate may impact our results of operations. Our effective tax rate has been difficult to predict in recent reporting periods due to the volatility of our financial performance, as well as a range of factors outside of our control. Factors that may increase our future effective tax rate include: increases in tax rates in various jurisdictions; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; and changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our net income in future periods. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls or discover material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or timely or detect fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. An effective internal control environment is necessary for the Company to produce reliable financial reports and is an important part of its effort to prevent financial fraud. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements and to continuously improve and remediate internal controls over financial reporting. While management evaluates the effectiveness of our internal controls on a regular basis, these controls may not always be effective. There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of internal controls, including collusion, management override, and failure in human judgment. In addition, control procedures are designed to reduce rather than eliminate business risks. In the event that our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under Section 404, we may be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, which could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by government authorities or self-regulatory organizations, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission or The NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC. Any such actions could affect investor perceptions of the Company and result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common shares to decline or limit our access to capital. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that were received 180 days or more before December 31, 2010 and remain unresolved. There are no unresolved comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission as of December 31, 2010. 