ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of, among other factors, the risk factors set forth below. Our future operating results are difficult to predict and are subject to fluctuations. Our future operating results, including revenues, gross margins, operating expenses and net income (loss), are difficult to predict and may be materially affected by a number of factors, including: • the effects of adverse economic conditions in the United States and international markets, especially in light of the current crisis in global credit and financial markets; • the level of orders and demand from customers; • changes in customer demand for our products and for end products that incorporate our products; • the effectiveness of our efforts to reduce product costs and manage operating expenses; • the timing of new product announcements or introductions by us or our competitors; • the timing, delay or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability to manage inventory; • the ability to hire, retain and motivate qualified employees to meet the demands of our customers; • our ability to utilize our manufacturing facilities at efficient levels; • potential significant litigation-related costs; • the costs related to compliance with increasing worldwide environmental and other regulations; and • the effects of public health emergencies, natural disasters, security risk, terrorist activities, international conflicts and other events beyond our control. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot assure you that we will not experience significant fluctuations in future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition, if our operating results do not meet the expectations of investors, the market price of our common stock may decline. The ongoing disruptions in the global economy, as well as continued uncertainty in global financial markets, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Continued uncertainty in the world’s financial markets contributed to widespread economic decline in 2009. Global financial markets continue to experience disruptions, including diminished liquidity and credit availability. Further disruption and deterioration in economic conditions may reduce customer purchases of our products, thereby reducing our revenues and earnings. In addition, such adverse conditions may, among other things, result in increased price competition for our products, increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories, increased risk in the collectability of our accounts receivable from our customers, increased risk in potential reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. Any of these items individually, or in combination, could materially and adversely affect our business and the results of operations. In 2009, we took actions to address the effects of the economic crisis, including a reduction in force and the implementation of cost control and reduction efforts. It is possible that 10 we may need to take further cost control and reduction efforts. We cannot predict whether these efforts will be sufficient to offset certain of the negative trends that might impact our business in 2010 or beyond. Our future success depends upon our ability to develop and market leading-edge, cost effective products. The power supply industry and the industries in which many of our customers operate are characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change, product obsolescence and price erosion for mature products, each of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If we fail to continue to develop and commercialize leading-edge technologies and products that are cost effective and maintain high standards of quality, and introduce them to the market on a timely basis, our competitive position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our future operating results are dependent on the growth in our customers’ businesses and on our ability to identify and enter new markets. We manufacture modular power components and power systems that are incorporated into our customers’ electronic products. Our growth is therefore dependent on the growth in the sales of our customers’ products as well as the development by our customers of new products. If we fail to anticipate changes in our customers’ businesses and their changing product needs or successfully identify and enter new markets, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively impacted. We cannot assure you that the markets we serve will grow in the future, that our existing and new products will meet the requirements of these markets or that we can maintain adequate gross margins or profits in these markets. A decline in demand in one or several of our end-user markets could have a material adverse impact on the demand for our products and our results of operations. If we were unable to use our manufacturing facility in Andover, Massachusetts, we would not be able to manufacture for an extended period of time. All modular power components, whether for direct sale to customers or for sale to our subsidiaries and divisions for incorporation into their respective products, are manufactured at our Andover, Massachusetts production facility. Substantial damage to this facility due to fire, natural disaster, power loss or other events could interrupt manufacturing. Any prolonged inability to utilize all or a significant portion of this facility could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may not be able to procure necessary key components for our products, or we may purchase too much inventory or the wrong inventory. The power supply industry, and the electronics industry as a whole, can be subject to business cycles. During periods of growth, key components required to build our products may become unavailable in the timeframe required for us to meet our customers’ demands. Our inability to secure sufficient components to build products for our customers could negatively impact our sales and operating results. We may choose to mitigate this risk by increasing the levels of inventory for certain key components. Increased inventory levels can increase the potential risk for excess and obsolescence should our forecasts fail to materialize or if there are negative factors impacting our customers’ end markets. If we purchase too much inventory or the wrong inventory, we may have to record additional inventory reserves or write-off the inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and on our results of operations. Our revenues may not increase enough to offset the expense of additional capacity. We have made significant additions to our manufacturing equipment and capacity over the past several years, including equipment for our new V*I Chip products. We are currently adding equipment to the V*I Chip production line which we expect will more than double capacity once it is fully operational, which is anticipated to occur in the first half of 2010. If overall revenue levels do not increase enough to offset the increased fixed costs, or significant revenues do not materialize for the FPA products, or if there is deterioration in our overall business, our future operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, asset 11 values could be impaired if the additional capacity is underutilized for an extended period of time, resulting in impairment charges that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We rely on third-party suppliers and subcontractors for components and assemblies and, therefore, cannot control their availability or quality. We depend on third party suppliers and subcontractors to provide components and assemblies used in our products, some of which are sole-sourced. If suppliers or subcontractors cannot provide their products or services on time or to our specifications, we may not be able to meet the demand for our products and our delivery times may be negatively affected. In addition, we cannot directly control the quality of the products and services provided by third parties. In order to grow, we may need to find new or change existing suppliers and subcontractors. This could cause disruptions in production, delays in the shipping of product or increases in prices paid to third-parties. We are exposed to economic, political and other risks through our foreign sales and distributors. International sales have been and are expected to be a significant component of total sales. Dependence on foreign third parties for sales and distribution is subject to special risks, such as foreign economic and political instability, foreign currency controls and market fluctuations, trade barriers and tariffs, foreign regulations and exchange rates. Our international customers’ business may be negatively affected by the current crisis in the global credit and financial markets. Sudden or unexpected changes in the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our ability to successfully implement our business strategy may be limited if we do not retain our key personnel and attract and retain skilled and experienced personnel. Our success depends on our ability to retain the services of our executive officers. The loss of one or more members of senior management could materially adversely affect our business and financial results. In particular, we are dependent on the services of Dr. Vinciarelli, our founder and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Dr. Vinciarelli could have a material adverse effect on our development of new products and on our results of operations. In addition, we depend on highly skilled engineers and other personnel with technical skills that are in high demand and are difficult to replace. Our continued operations and growth depend on our ability to attract and retain skilled and experienced personnel in a very competitive employment market. If we are unable to attract and retain these employees, our ability to successfully implement our business strategy may be harmed. Funds associated with our investments in auction rate securities may not be accessible in the short term. As of December 31, 2009, we held $33,600,000 of auction rate securities at par value, consisting of collateralized debt obligations, supported by pools of student loans, sponsored by state student loan agencies and corporate student loan servicing firms. The interest rates for these securities are reset at auction at regular intervals ranging from seven to 90 days. The auction rate securities held by us, prior to February 2008, historically traded at par and are callable at par at the option of the issuer. On December 31, 2009, the majority of the auction rate securities held by us were AAA/Aaa rated by the major credit rating agencies, with all of the securities collateralized by student loans, of which most are guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Education under the Federal Family Education Loan Program. Until February 2008, the auction rate securities market was liquid, as the investment banks conducting the periodic “Dutch auctions” by which interest rates for the securities had been established had committed their capital to support such auctions in the event of insufficient third-party investor demand. Starting the week of February 11, 2008, a substantial number of auctions failed, as demand from third-party investors weakened and the investment banks conducting the auctions chose not to commit capital to support such auctions (i.e., investment banks chose not to purchase securities themselves in order to balance supply and demand, thereby facilitating a successful auction, as they had done in the past). The consequences of a failed auction are (a) an 12 investor must hold the specific security until the next scheduled auction (unless that investor chooses to sell the security to a third party outside of the auction process) and (b) the interest rate on the security generally resets to an interest rate set forth in each security’s indenture. While we do not currently anticipate the lack of liquidity of our auction rate securities to adversely affect our ability to conduct business, the funds associated with auction rate securities may not be accessible until a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, the security is called, the underlying securities have matured, or, with respect to certain auction rate securities, we exercise of our contractual right to sell certain auction rate securities, at par value, during a period beginning June 1, 2010, to the broker-dealer through which we purchased such securities. We may be required to make additional adjustments to the carrying value of our Auction Rate Securities. In order to record the value of our auction rate securities appropriately each quarter, we have estimated their market value and recorded an impairment charge. Our available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, attributable to credit loss recorded through the statement of operations and unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, attributable to other non-credit factors reported in “Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income,” a component of Stockholders’ Equity. In determining the amount of credit loss, we compare the present value of cash flows expected to be collected to the amortized cost basis of the securities, considering credit default risk probabilities and changes in credit ratings as significant inputs, among other factors. Our trading securities are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recognized through the statement of operations each reporting period. We periodically evaluate if an investment is considered impaired, whether an impairment is other than temporary, and the measurement of an impairment loss. The following circumstances, among others, may cause us to record such impairment charges to our Consolidated Statements of Operations: • the default of an issuer or a specific security of that issuer; • the significant deterioration of the credit rating of a security or its issuer; • a tender offer for a specific security from the issuer valuing the security at less than par that is accepted by the number of holders necessary to require all holders to tender their securities; and • the development of a robust secondary market for auction rate securities, establishing an active market value for our securities or similar securities that represents a substantial discount to par. Such impairment charges or, in the event of a sale, realized losses could be material in amount and be detrimental to our financial position, potentially impacting our ability to fund operations. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively. We operate in an industry in which the ability to compete depends on the development or acquisition of proprietary technologies which must be protected to preserve the exclusive use of such technologies. We devote substantial resources to establish and protect our patents and proprietary rights, and we rely on patent and intellectual property law to protect such rights. This protection, however, may not prevent competitors from independently developing products similar or superior to our products. We may be unable to protect or enforce current patents, may rely on unpatented technology that competitors could restrict, or may be unable to acquire patents in the future, and this may have a material adverse affect on our competitive position. In addition, the intellectual property laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as those of the United States. We have been and may need to continue to defend or challenge patents. We have incurred and expect to incur significant costs in and devote significant resources to these efforts which, if unsuccessful, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. 13 We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be costly to resolve. We may in the future receive communications from third parties asserting that our products or manufacturing processes infringe on a third party’s patent or other intellectual property rights. In the event a third party makes a valid intellectual property claim against us and a license is not available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, we could be forced to either redesign or stop production of products incorporating that technology, and our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, litigation may be necessary to defend us against claims of infringement, and this litigation could be costly and divert the attention of key personnel. An adverse outcome in these types of matters could have a material adverse impact on the results of our operations and financial condition. We may face legal claims and litigation that could be costly to resolve. We may in the future encounter legal action from customers, vendors or others concerning product warranty or other claims. Such litigation is costly and diverts the attention of key personnel. An adverse outcome in these current or future matters could have a material adverse impact on the results of our operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that were received 180 days or more before December 31, 2009 and remain unresolved. There are no unresolved comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission as of December 31, 2009. 