ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important risk factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements made in this report or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. If any of the circumstances or events described below actually arise or occur, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Industry specific risk factors: The highly cyclical nature of the industry may lead to volatile changes in charter rates and vessel values, which may adversely affect the Company’s earnings Factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of the Company’s control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable and may adversely affect the values of the Company’s vessels and result in significant fluctuations in the amount of charter hire the Company may earn, which could result in significant fluctuations in OSG’s quarterly results. The factors that influence the demand for tanker capacity include: •demand for oil and oil products, which affect the need for vessel capacity; •global and regional economic and political conditions which among other things, could impact the supply of oil as well as trading patterns and the demand for various types of vessels; •changes in the production of crude oil, particularly by OPEC and other key producers, which impact the need for vessel capacity; •developments in international trade; •changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances that cargoes are transported; •environmental concerns and regulations; •new pipeline construction and expansions; •weather; and •competition from alternative sources of energy. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: •the number of newbuilding deliveries; •the scrapping rate of older vessels; •the number of vessels that are used for storage or as floating storage offloading service vessels; •the conversion of vessels from transporting oil and oil products to carrying dry bulk cargo and the reverse conversion; •the number of vessels that are out of service; and •environmental and maritime regulations. 23Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. An increase in the supply of vessels without a commensurate increase in demand for such vessels could cause charter rates to remain at depressed levels or to further decline, which could have a material adverse effect on OSG’s revenues and profitability and on the value of its vessels OSG depends on spot charters for a significant portion of its revenues. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, OSG derived approximately 65%, 64% and 49%, respectively, of its TCE revenues in the spot market. The marine transportation industry has been highly cyclical. The profitability and asset values of companies in the industry have fluctuated based on changes in the supply and demand of vessels. The supply of vessels generally increases with deliveries of new vessels and decreases with the scrapping of older vessels. The newbuilding order book equaled 18% of the existing world tanker fleet as of December 31, 2011, a significant percentage but a decrease from 29% and 31% as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. If the number of new ships delivered exceeds the number of vessels being scrapped, capacity will increase. In addition, vessel supply is affected by the number of vessels that are used for floating storage because vessels that are used for storage are not available to transport crude oil and petroleum products. Utilization of vessels for storage is affected by expectations of changes in the price of oil and products, such utilization generally increasing if prices are expected to increase more than storage costs and generally decreasing if they are not. A reduction in vessel utilization for storage, which occurred in 2010 when 81 vessels were released from storage use and reentered the trading fleet, will increase vessel supply. If supply exceeds demand as it has for the past three years, the charter rates for the Company’s vessels could continue to be depressed to levels well below historical averages, which rates would if maintained over a long period of time have a material adverse effect on OSG’s revenues and profitability and the value of its vessels. OSG’s revenues are subject to seasonal variations OSG operates its tankers in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand for tanker capacity, and therefore, charter rates. Charter rates for tankers are typically higher in the fall and winter months as a result of increased oil consumption in the Northern Hemisphere. Because a majority of the Company’s vessels trade in the spot market, seasonality has affected OSG’s operating results on a quarter-to-quarter basis and could continue to do so in the future. Such seasonality may be outweighed in any period by then current economic conditions or tanker industry fundamentals. Constraints on capital availability adversely affect the tanker industry and OSG’s business Constraints on capital that have occurred during recent years have adversely affected the financial condition of companies around the world, including certain of the Company’s customers, joint venture partners, financial lenders and suppliers, including shipyards from whom the Company has contracted to purchase vessels. Those entities that suffer a material adverse impact on their financial condition may be unable or unwilling to comply with their contractual commitments to OSG, or to enter into new commitments, which, in turn, could have an adverse impact on OSG. The failure of entities to comply with, or enter into new, contractual commitments could include the refusal or inability of customers to pay charter hire to OSG, shipyards’ failure to construct and deliver to OSG newbuilds or joint ventures’ or financial lenders’ inability or unwillingness to honor their commitments, or enter into new or additional commitments, such as to contribute funds to a joint venture with OSG or to lend funds to OSG. While OSG seeks to monitor the financial condition of such entities, the availability and accuracy of information about the financial condition of such entities may be limited and the actions that OSG may take to reduce possible losses resulting from the failure of such entities to comply with their contractual obligations may be restricted. See also under the heading “Company specific risk factors” below the risk factor concerning credit risks with counterparties. Terrorist attacks, piracy and international hostilities and instability can affect the tanker industry, which could adversely affect OSG’s business Additional terrorist attacks like those in New York on September 11, 2001 and in London on July 7, 2005, piracy attacks against merchant ships, including oil tankers, particularly in the Gulf of Aden, off the East Coast of Africa, especially Somalia, and the South China sea, the outbreak of war, or the existence of international hostilities could all damage the world economy, adversely affect the availability of and demand for crude oil and petroleum products and adversely affect the Company’s ability to re-charter its vessels on the expiration or termination of the charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters. 24Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. The Company conducts its operations internationally, and its business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changing economic, political and government conditions in the countries and regions where its vessels are employed, including •pandemics or epidemics which may result in a disruption of worldwide trade including quarantines of certain areas; •currency fluctuations; •the imposition of taxes by flag states, port states and jurisdictions in which OSG or its subsidiaries are incorporated or where its vessels operate; •economic sanctions and boycotts; and •expropriation of its vessels. Moreover, OSG operates in a sector of the economy that is likely to be adversely impacted by the effects of political instability, terrorist or other attacks, war, international hostilities or piracy. These factors could also increase the costs to OSG of conducting its business, particularly crew, insurance and security costs, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profitability. The market value of vessels fluctuates significantly, which could adversely affect OSG’s liquidity, result in breaches of its financing agreements or otherwise adversely affect its financial condition The market value of vessels has fluctuated over time. The fluctuation in market value of vessels over time is based upon various factors, including: •age of the vessel; •general economic and market conditions affecting the tanker industry, including the availability of vessel financing; •number of vessels in the world fleet; •types and sizes of vessels available; •changes in trading patterns affecting demand for particular sizes and types of vessels; •cost of newbuildings; •prevailing level of charter rates; •competition from other shipping companies; •other modes of transportation; and •technological advances in vessel design and propulsion. Vessel values have declined in the past three years. Although OSG has a modern fleet, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. These factors will affect the value of the Company’s vessels at the time of any vessel sale. If for any reason, OSG sells a vessel at a time when prices have fallen, the sale may be at less than the vessel’s carrying amount on its financial statements, with the result that the Company would incur a loss on the sale and a reduction in earnings and surplus. In addition, declining values of the Company’s vessels could adversely affect the Company’s liquidity by limiting its ability to raise cash by selling vessels at attractive prices or by refinancing vessels at acceptable levels. Declining vessel values could also result in a breach of certain loan covenants or trigger events of default under relevant financing agreements that require the Company to maintain certain loan-to-value ratios. In such instances, if OSG is unable or unwilling to pledge additional collateral to offset the decline in vessel values, its lenders could accelerate its debt and foreclose on its vessels pledged as collateral for the loans. 25Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. Shipping is a business with inherent risks, and OSG’s insurance may not be adequate to cover its losses OSG’s vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as: • marine disasters; • bad weather; • mechanical failures; • human error; • war, terrorism and piracy; and • other unforeseen circumstances or events. In addition, transporting crude oil creates a risk of business interruptions due to political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities, labor strikes, port closings and boycotts. Any of these events may result in loss of revenues and increased costs. The Company carries insurance to protect against most of the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of its business. OSG currently maintains one billion dollars in coverage for each of its vessels for liability for spillage or leakage of oil or pollution. OSG also carries insurance covering lost revenue resulting from vessel off-hire due to vessel damage. Nonetheless, risks may arise against which the Company is not adequately insured. For example, a catastrophic spill could exceed OSG’s insurance coverage and have a material adverse effect on its operations. In addition, OSG may not be able to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future, and OSG cannot guarantee that any particular claim will be paid. In the past, new and stricter environmental regulations have led to higher costs for insurance covering environmental damage or pollution, and new regulations could lead to similar increases or even make this type of insurance unavailable. Furthermore, even if insurance coverage is adequate to cover the Company’s losses, OSG may not be able to timely obtain a replacement ship in the event of a loss. OSG may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on its own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the P & I Associations through which OSG obtains insurance coverage for tort liability. OSG’s payment of these calls could result in significant expenses which would reduce its profits or cause losses. Compliance with environmental laws or regulations, including those relating to the emission of greenhouse gases, may adversely affect OSG’s business The Company’s operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national and local environmental protection laws, regulations, treaties, conventions and standards in force in international waters, the jurisdictional waters of the countries in which OSG’s vessels operate, as well as the countries of its vessels’ registration. Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills and other pollution and to decrease emission of greenhouse gases, and OSG’s compliance with these requirements can be costly. These requirements can affect the resale value or useful lives of the Company’s vessels, require a reduction in carrying capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability or higher cost of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in, certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, OSG could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous substances from its vessels or otherwise in connection with its operations. OSG could also become subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to the release of or exposure to hazardous materials associated with its current or historic operations. Violations of or liabilities under environmental requirements also can result in substantial penalties, fines and other sanctions, including in certain instances, seizure or detention of the Company’s vessels. 26Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. OSG could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, fines, penalties, third-party claims and natural resource damages, as the result of an oil spill or other liabilities under environmental laws. The Company is subject to the oversight of several government agencies, including the U.S. Coast Guard, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Maritime Administration of the U.S. Department of Transportation. OPA 90 affects all vessel owners shipping oil or hazardous material to, from or within the United States. OPA 90 allows for potentially unlimited liability without regard to fault for owners, operators and bareboat charterers of vessels for oil pollution in U.S. waters. Similarly, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, 1969, as amended, which has been adopted by most countries outside of the United States, imposes liability for oil pollution in international waters. OPA 90 expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries. Coastal states in the United States have enacted pollution prevention liability and response laws, many providing for unlimited liability. In addition, in complying with OPA, IMO regulations, EU directives and other existing laws and regulations and those that may be adopted, shipowners may incur significant additional costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. Government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become more strict in the future and require the Company to incur significant capital expenditures on its vessels to keep them in compliance, or even to scrap or sell certain vessels altogether. In recent years, the IMO and EU have both accelerated their existing non double hull phase out schedules in response to highly publicized oil spills and other shipping incidents involving companies unrelated to OSG. Future accidents can be expected in the industry, and such accidents or other events could be expected to result in the adoption of even stricter laws and regulations, which could limit the Company’s operations or its ability to do business and which could have a material adverse effect on OSG’s business and financial results. Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries, including the U.S., and international organizations, including the EU, the IMO and the United Nations, have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These regulatory measures include, among others, adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. Such actions could result in significant financial and operational impacts on the Company’s business, including requiring OSG to install new emission controls, acquire allowances or pay taxes related to its greenhouse gas emissions, or administer and manage a greenhouse gas emission program. See the discussion of “Environmental and Security Matters Relating to Bulk Shipping” above. Company specific risk factors: The Company’s business would be adversely affected if it failed to comply with the Jones Act provisions on coastwise trade, or if these provisions were repealed and if changes in international trade agreements were to occur. The Company is subject to the Jones Act and other federal laws that restrict maritime transportation between points in the U.S. (known as marine cabotage services or coastwise trade) to vessels built and registered in the U.S. and owned and manned by U.S. citizens. The Company is responsible for monitoring the foreign ownership of its common stock and other interests to insure compliance with the Jones Act. If the Company does not comply with these restrictions, it would be prohibited from operating its vessels in U.S. coastwise trade, and under certain circumstances would be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of U.S. coastwise trading rights for the Company’s vessels, fines or forfeiture of the vessels. In order to ensure compliance with Jones Act citizenship requirements, and in accordance with the certificate of incorporation and by-laws of the Company, the Board of Directors of the Company adopted a requirement in July 1976 that at least 77% (the “Minimum Percentage”) of the Company’s common stock must be held by U.S. citizens. While the percentage of U.S. citizenship ownership of the Company’s outstanding common stock fluctuates daily, at times in the past several years it has declined to the Minimum Percentage. Any purported transfer of common stock in violation of these ownership provisions will be ineffective to transfer the shares of common stock or any voting, dividend or other rights associated with them. The existence and enforcement of this U.S. citizen ownership requirement could have an adverse impact on the liquidity or market value of our common stock in the event that U.S. citizens were unable to transfer shares of our common stock to non-U.S. citizens. Furthermore, under certain circumstances this ownership requirement could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company. 27Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. Additionally, the Jones Act restrictions on the provision of maritime cabotage services are subject to exceptions under certain international trade agreements, including the General Agreement on Trade in Services and the North American Free Trade Agreement. If maritime cabotage services were included in the General Agreement on Trade in Services, the North American Free Trade Agreement or other international trade agreements, or if the restrictions contained in the Jones Act were otherwise repealed or altered, the transportation of maritime cargo between U.S. ports could be opened to international flag or international-manufactured vessels. During the past several years, interest groups have lobbied Congress to repeal the Jones Act to facilitate international flag competition for trades and cargoes currently reserved for U.S. Flag vessels under the Jones Act and cargo preference laws. The Company believes that continued efforts will be made to modify or repeal the Jones Act and cargo preference laws currently benefiting U.S. Flag vessels. Because international vessels may have lower construction costs, wage rates and operating costs, this could significantly increase competition in the coastwise trade, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. OSG’s financial condition would be materially adversely affected if the shipping income of OSG’s foreign subsidiaries becomes subject to current taxation in the U.S. As a result of changes made by the 2004 Act, the Company does not include in its U.S tax return on a current basis the unrepatriated shipping income earned by its international flag vessels, which in recent years represented substantially all of the Company’s pre-tax income. These changes in the 2004 Act were made to make U.S. controlled shipping companies competitive with foreign-controlled shipping companies, which are generally incorporated in jurisdictions in which they either do not pay income taxes or pay minimal income taxes. The President and several Congressmen and Senators have announced support for ending “tax breaks for companies that ship our jobs overseas and give those tax breaks for companies that create jobs in the United States of America”. While the Company believes that the changes made in the 2004 Act with respect to foreign shipping income do not “ship jobs overseas,” and, in fact, have enabled the Company to expand its U.S. Flag fleet and create jobs in the U.S., Congress may decide to repeal the changes made in the 2004 Act with respect to taxation of foreign shipping income for the aforementioned reason or as part of initiatives to reduce the U.S. budget deficit or to reform the U.S. corporate tax regime. Such repeal, either directly or indirectly by limiting or reducing benefits received under the 2004 Act, would have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results. The Company’s substantial debt and charter in commitments could adversely affect its financial condition and ability to incur additional debt OSG has substantial debt and debt service requirements and charter-in commitments. At December 31, 2011, the Company’s consolidated total debt was approximately $2.1 billion and its unused borrowing capacity under its revolving credit facility was approximately $700 million (before a reduction of $150 million effective February 2012) and its charter in commitments were approximately $1.3 billion. The amount of the Company’s debt and charter-in obligations could have important consequences. For example, it could: •increase OSG’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •limit OSG’s ability to fund future capital expenditures, working capital and other general corporate requirements; •require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to make interest and principal payments on its debt; •limit OSG’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the shipping industry; •place OSG at a competitive disadvantage compared with competitors that have less debt or charter-in commitments including by causing OSG to have a lower credit rating; and 28Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. •limit OSG’s ability to borrow additional funds, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity. Furthermore, the Company may begin borrowing in February 2013 under a $900 million unsecured forward start revolving credit facility (the “Forward Start Facility”) entered into in May 2011, which is at the same time the Company’s existing unsecured revolving credit facility expires (the “Existing Facility”). The amount currently outstanding under the Existing Facility approximately equals the capacity under the Forward Start Facility so that the Company could have no unused borrowing capacity under the Forward Start Facility. While the amount of the Forward Start Facility may be increased to up to $1.25 billion if the bank lending group agrees to such increase, no assurance can be given that the lending group will agree or that OSG will be able to borrow additional funds. In January 2012, Standard & Poor’s credit agency reduced the Company’s long-term corporate credit rating from B to B-, with a negative outlook, citing, among other reasons, a steep deterioration in the Company’s financial profile because of prolonged low tanker rates, rising operating losses and the Company’s high debt burden. Standard & Poor’s stated that in its assessment the Company has less than adequate liquidity. The reduced credit rating together with the Company’s debt burden and low tanker rates may adversely affect the availability and terms of debt and equity capital. While the Company monitors compliance with its financing agreements, continued low tanker rates and operating losses may result in the Company violating its financial covenants which could result in the adoption of loan terms less favorable to the Company than existing terms or an acceleration of the Company’s indebtedness. If the maturity of the Company’s indebtedness is accelerated, the Company may not be able to refinance the indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, which would materially adversely affect the Company. OSG may not be able to renew time charters when they expire or enter into new time charters There can be no assurance that any of the Company’s existing time charters will be renewed at comparable rates or if renewed, that they will be at favorable rates. If, upon expiration of the existing time charters, OSG is unable to obtain time charters or voyage charters at desirable rates, the Company’s profitability may be adversely affected. Delays or cost overruns in building new vessels (including the failure to deliver new vessels), in the scheduled shipyard maintenance of the Company’s vessels, or conversion of the Company’s vessels could adversely affect OSG’s results of operations Building new vessels, scheduled shipyard maintenance or conversion of vessels are subject to risks of delay (including the failure to deliver new vessels) or cost overruns caused by one or more of the following: •financial difficulties of the shipyard building, repairing or converting a vessel, including bankruptcy; •unforeseen quality or engineering problems; •work stoppages; •weather interference; •unanticipated cost increases; •delays in receipt of necessary materials or equipment; •changes to design specifications; and •inability to obtain the requisite permits, approvals or certifications from the U.S. Coast Guard or international foreign flag state authorities and the applicable classification society upon completion of work. 29Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. Significant delays, cost overruns and failure to deliver new vessels could increase the Company’s expected contract commitments, which would have an adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, borrowing capacity and results of operations. Furthermore, delays would result in vessels being out of service for extended periods of time, and therefore not earning revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on OSG’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s remedies for losses resulting from shipyards’ failure to comply with their contractual commitments may be limited by the relevant contracts, including by liquidated damages provisions, such as those that limit the amount of monetary damages that may be claimed or that limit the Company’s right to cancellation of the building contract. While purchase price payments for newbuild vessels made prior to vessel delivery to international shipyards historically have been supported by guarantees from financial institutions, such as banks or insurance companies, such payments to U.S. shipyards historically have been supported by liens on the work in progress, including steel and equipment used for constructing the vessel, and not by guarantees from financial institutions. If an international shipyard fails to deliver a contracted newbuild vessel for which there is a guarantee, the Company may claim against the guarantee, substantially reducing the risk that the Company will suffer a loss of its investment. If a U.S. shipyard fails to deliver a contracted vessel, the Company’s investment may be supported only by the Company’s liens on the work in progress, which may result in a loss of part or all of the Company’s investment. Termination or change in the nature of OSG’s relationship with any of the pools in which it participates could adversely affect its business All of the Company’s VLCCs participate in the Tankers International pool. At December 31, 2011, nine of OSG’s Aframaxes participate in the Aframax International pool. Nine of its crude Panamaxes and four of its Panamax Product Carriers participate directly in Panamax International. Participation in these pools enhances the financial performance of the Company’s vessels as a result of the higher vessel utilization. Any participant in any of these pools has the right to withdraw upon notice in accordance with the relevant pool agreement. The Company cannot predict whether the pools in which its vessels operate will continue to exist in the future. In addition, in recent years the EU has published guidelines on the application of the EU antitrust rules to traditional agreements for maritime services such as pools. While the Company believes that all the pools it participates in comply with EU rules, there has been limited administrative and judicial interpretation of the rules. Restrictive interpretations of the guidelines could adversely affect the ability to commercially market the respective types of vessels in pools. OSG’s strategy of growing its business in part through acquisitions is capital intensive, time consuming and subject to a number of inherent risks Part of OSG’s business strategy is to opportunistically acquire complementary businesses or vessels. The Company’s ability to grow its fleets will depend upon a number of factors, many of which the Company cannot control. These factors include OSG’s ability to: • identify acquisition candidates and joint venture opportunities; • replace expiring charters-in at comparable rates; • identify suitable charter-in opportunities; • consummate acquisitions or joint ventures; • integrate any acquired vessels or businesses successfully with its existing operations, including streamlining company operations to maximize efficiencies while maintaining business quality and customer satisfaction; • hire and train qualified personnel; and • obtain required financing. 30Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. OSG’s strategy includes the opportunistic acquisition of quality second hand vessels either directly or through corporate acquisitions. Second hand vessels typically do not carry warranties with respect to their condition, whereas warranties are generally available for newbuildings. While the Company generally inspects all second hand vessels prior to purchase, such inspections would normally not provide OSG with as much knowledge about vessel condition as the Company would possess if the vessels had been built for it. Operating costs and capital expenses will increase as the Company’s vessels age In general, capital expenditures and other costs necessary for maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increase as the age of the vessel increases. Accordingly, it is likely that the operating costs of OSG’s vessels will increase. In addition, changes in governmental regulations and compliance with Classification Society standards may require OSG to make additional expenditures for new equipment. In order to add such equipment, OSG may be required to take its vessels out of service. There can be no assurance that market conditions will justify such expenditures or enable OSG to operate its older vessels profitably during the remainder of their economic lives. Certain potential customers will not use vessels older than a specified age, even if they have been recently rebuilt All of the Company’s existing ATBs with the exception of the OSG Vision/OSG 350 and the OSG Horizon/OSG 351were originally constructed more than 25 years ago. While all of these tug-barge units were rebuilt and double-hulled since 1998 and are “in-class,” meaning the vessel has been certified by a classification society as being built and maintained in accordance with the rules of that classification society and complies with the applicable rules and regulations of the vessel’s country of registry and applicable international conventions, some potential customers have stated that they will not charter vessels that are more than 20 years old, even if they have been rebuilt. No assurance can be given that customers will continue to view rebuilt vessels as comparable to newbuild vessels. If more customers differentiate between rebuilt and newbuild vessels, time charter rates for our rebuilt ATBs will likely be adversely affected or they may not be employable. In the highly competitive international market, OSG may not be able to effectively compete for charters with companies with greater resources The Company’s vessels are employed in a highly competitive market. Competition arises from other vessel owners, including major oil companies, which may have substantially greater resources than OSG does. Competition for the transportation of crude oil and other petroleum products depends on price, location, size, age, condition, and the acceptability of the vessel operator to the charterer. The Company believes that because ownership of the world tanker fleet is highly fragmented, no single vessel owner is able to influence charter rates. To the extent OSG enters into new geographic regions or provides new services, it may not be able to compete profitably. New markets may involve competitive factors that differ from those of the Company’s current markets, and the competitors in those markets may have greater financial strength and capital resources than OSG does. Trading and complementary hedging activities in Forward Freight Agreements (“FFAs”) subject the Company to trading risks and the Company may suffer trading losses that reduce earnings Due to shipping market volatility, success in this industry requires constant adjustment of the balance between chartering out vessels for long periods of time and trading them on a spot basis. The Company from time to time seeks to manage and mitigate that risk through trading and complementary hedging activities in forward freight agreements, or FFAs. However, there is no assurance that the Company will be able at all times to successfully protect itself from volatility in the shipping market. The Company may not successfully mitigate its risks, leaving it exposed to unprofitable contracts and may suffer trading losses that reduce earnings and surplus. 31Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. The Company is subject to credit risks with respect to its counterparties on contracts and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause the Company to suffer losses on such contracts, decreasing revenues and earnings The Company charters its vessels to other parties, who pay the Company a daily rate of hire. The Company also enters into COAs and Voyage Charters. As OSG increases the portion of its revenues from time charters, it increases its reliance on the ability of time charterers to pay charter hire, especially when spot market rates are less than previously agreed upon time charter rates. Historically, the Company has not experienced material problems collecting charter hire but the global economic downturn of recent years has affected charterers more severely than the prior recessions that have occurred since the Company’s establishment more than 40 years ago. The Company also time charters or bareboat charters some of its vessels from other parties and its continued use and operation of such vessels depends on the vessel owners’ compliance with the terms of the time charter or bareboat charter. Additionally, the Company enters into derivative contracts (FFAs, bunker swaps, interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts). All of these contracts subject the Company to counterparty credit risk. As a result, the Company is subject to credit risks at various levels, including with charterers or cargo interests. If the counterparties fail to meet their obligations, the Company could suffer losses on such contracts which would decrease revenues and earnings. OSG depends on its key personnel and may have difficulty attracting and retaining skilled employees OSG’s success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of its key personnel. The loss of the services of any of the Company’s key personnel or its inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on OSG’s business, financial condition and operating results. The Company may face unexpected drydock costs for its vessels Vessels must be drydocked periodically. The cost of repairs and renewals required at each drydock are difficult to predict with certainty and can be substantial. The Company’s insurance does not cover these costs. In addition, vessels may have to be drydocked in the event of accidents or other unforeseen damage. OSG’s insurance may not cover all of these costs. Large drydocking expenses could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. Maritime claimants could arrest OSG’s vessels, which could interrupt its cash flow Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of the Company’s vessels could interrupt OSG’s cash flow, damage OSG’s reputation and require it to pay a significant amount of money to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel that is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in the Company’s fleet for claims relating to another vessel in its fleet. Vessels chartered in by the Company may be arrested or attached for debts of, or claims or damages against, the vessel’s owners, interrupting OSG’s use of the vessel and exposing OSG to claims from OSG’s customers. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 32Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. 