ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important risk factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements made in this report or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. If any of the circumstances or events described below actually arise or occur, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Chapter 11 Cases specific risk factors: On November 14, 2012, the Company and 180 of its direct and indirect subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the United States Code (the “Bankruptcy Code” or “Chapter 11”) in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (the “Bankruptcy Court”), which are being jointly administered under docket number 12-20000 (the “Chapter 11 Cases”). The Company and its filing subsidiaries will continue to operate as “debtors in possession” in the ordinary course under the jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Code and orders of the Bankruptcy Court. See Note 3, “Bankruptcy Filing and Going Concern,” and Note 11, “Debt,” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements set forth in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for a further discussion regarding the impact of the Chapter 11 filing on the Company’s debt agreements. The Chapter 11 Cases are intended to permit the Company to reorganize and improve liquidity in the U.S. and abroad, monetize non-strategic assets, fairly resolve legacy liabilities, and focus on the most valuable business units to enable sustainable profitability. The Company’s goal is to develop and implement a reorganization plan that meets the standards for confirmation under the Bankruptcy Code. Confirmation of a reorganization plan could materially alter the classifications and amounts reported in the Company’s consolidated financial statements, which do not give effect to any adjustments to the carrying values of assets or amounts of liabilities that might be necessary as a consequence of confirmation of a reorganization plan or other arrangement or the effect of any operational changes that may be implemented. The Company’s filing of the Chapter 11 Cases and the Company’s ability to successfully emerge as a stronger, leaner company may be affected by a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties associated with the filing of voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, which may lead to potential adverse effects on the Company’s liquidity, results of operations or business prospects. No assurance can be given as to the outcome of the Chapter 11 Cases. Risks associated with the Chapter 11 filing may impact all entities constituting the Company and include the following: •the ability of OSG to continue as a going concern; •the Company’s ability to obtain Bankruptcy Court approval with respect to motions in the Chapter 11 Cases and the outcomes of Bankruptcy Court rulings of the case in general; •the length of time OSG will operate under the Chapter 11 Cases and its ability to successfully emerge; •the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to develop and consummate one or more plans of reorganization with respect to the Chapter 11 cases; •OSG’s ability to obtain Bankruptcy Court and creditor approval of its reorganization plan and the impact of alternative proposals, views and objections of creditor committees and representatives, which may make it difficult to develop and consummate a reorganization plan in a timely manner; •risks associated with third party motions in the Chapter 11 Cases, which may interfere with the Company’s operations and/or plans of reorganization; •the ability to maintain sufficient liquidity throughout the Chapter 11 proceedings including operating the Company’s cash management system; 29Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. •materially increased costs related to the bankruptcy filing and other litigation; •the Company’s ability to manage contracts that are critical to its operation and to obtain and maintain appropriate terms with customers, suppliers and service providers; •OSG’s success in obtaining “exit financing” as may be required to fund the implementation cost of the Company’s plan of reorganization; •the Company’s ability to preserve the benefits of the automatic stay imposed by the Bankruptcy Code and defend against any efforts to lift the automatic stay; •the Company’s ability to obtain further extensions of the time period within which it has exclusive rights to file and solicit approval of any plan of reorganization; •the Company’s ability to fairly resolve legacy liabilities in alignment with the Company’s plan of reorganization; •the outcome of all pre-petition claims against the Company; and •the Company’s ability to maintain existing customers, vendors relationships, employees, joint venturers and pool participants and expand sales to new customers. Although the Company’s goal is to file a plan of reorganization, the Company may determine that it is in the best interest of the Company’s estate to seek Bankruptcy Court approval of a sale of all or a portion of the Company’s assets pursuant to section 363 of the Bankruptcy Code or seek confirmation of a reorganization plan providing for such a sale or other arrangement. Similarly, the Company may determine that it is in the best interest of the Company’s estate to seek to convert certain of the cases of its jointly-administered subsidiaries to cases under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. Continued investment, capital needs, restructuring payments and servicing the Company’s debt require a significant amount of cash and the Company’s ability to generate cash may be affected by factors beyond the Company’s control. While the Company is not currently paying principal or interest on the Company’s indebtedness, the Company’s business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable OSG to fund the Company’s other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, investments and alliances, professional fees in connection with the Chapter 11 Cases and other general corporate requirements. The Company’s ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, litigation, regulatory and other factors that are beyond the Company’s control. No assurance can be given that: •the Company’s business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations; •OSG’s plans to generate cash proceeds through the sale of non-core assets will be successful; •the Company will be able to repatriate or move cash to locations where and when it is needed; •OSG will realize cost savings, earnings growth and operating improvements resulting from the execution of the reorganization plan that OSG may adopt; or •future sources of funding will be available to the Company in amounts sufficient to enable the Company to fund its liquidity needs. If the Company cannot fund its liquidity needs, the Company will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, and investments and alliances; selling additional assets; restructuring or refinancing the Company’s debt; or seeking additional equity capital. These actions may be restricted as a result of the Company’s Chapter 11 filing. Such actions could increase OSG’s debt, negatively impact customer confidence in the Company’s ability to provide products and services, reduce the Company’s ability to raise additional capital, and delay emergence from Chapter 11 protection and sustained profitability. 30Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. The Company may seek to raise cash proceeds from the sale of non-core assets, however, such efforts may not be successful in raising sufficient cash, may be negatively impacted by factors beyond the Company’s control and may harm the perception of the Company among customers, suppliers and service providers. A number of factors could influence the Company’s ability to successfully raise cash through asset sales, including the approval of the Bankruptcy Court , the process utilized to sell these assets, the number of potential buyers for these assets, the purchase price such buyers are willing to offer for these assets and their capacity to fund the purchase, or the ability of potential buyers to conclude transactions and potential issues in the closing of transactions due to regulatory or governmental review process. One or more of these factors could negatively affect the timing of planned asset sales and the level of cash proceeds derived from the sales, which could adversely impact the Company’s cash generation and liquidity. The value of the Company’s International Flag vessels has declined due to market conditions that began in 2008 and continue to date. As a result, the Company may be unable to receive adequate consideration for any vessel or other asset disposition in the International Flag business, which dispositions may result in significant losses. Further, there is no assurance that these plans will be successful in raising sufficient cash proceeds or that the sale of certain of the Company’s assets will not harm the Company’s customers’, suppliers’ and service providers’ perception of the Company. If the Company is unsuccessful with its strategic investment decisions, the Company’s financial performance could be adversely affected. The Company has focused its investments on International Flag Crude Tankers, International Flag Product Carrier and U.S. Flag vessels. While the Company believes that each of these businesses has significant growth potential, they all also require potentially significant additional investments. If the Company is unsuccessful in growing the Company’s businesses as planned, the Company’s financial performance and cash flows could be adversely affected. The Company’s failure to implement plans to reduce the Company’s cost structure could negatively affect the Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial position and liquidity. The Company recognizes the need to continually rationalize the Company’s workforce and streamline the Company’s operations to remain competitive in the face of a difficult business and economic climate. If the Company fails to implement cost rationalization plans, the Company’s operational results, financial position and liquidity could be negatively impacted. Additionally, if reorganization plans are not effectively managed the Company may experience a loss of customers, reduced business opportunities and other unanticipated effects, causing harm to the Company’s business and customer relationships The business plan that may be adopted in connection with the Company’s Chapter 11 reorganization will be subject to a number of assumptions, projections, and analyses. If any of these assumptions prove to be incorrect, the Company may be unsuccessful in executing the Company’s plan, which could adversely impact its financial results and liquidity. Additionally, the Company’s ability to execute restructuring with the entities filing for Chapter 11 is subject to the approval by the Bankruptcy Court. Finally, the timing and implementation of these plans require compliance with numerous laws and regulations, and the failure to comply with such requirements may result in damages, fines and penalties which could adversely affect the Company’s cost structure and cash flows. Any plan of reorganization that the Company may implement will be based in large part upon assumptions and analyses developed by the Company. If these assumptions and analyses prove to be incorrect, the Company’s plan may be unsuccessful in its execution. Any plan of reorganization that OSG may implement could affect both its capital structure and the ownership, structure and operation of its businesses and will reflect assumptions and analyses based on the Company’s experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other factors that are considered appropriate under the circumstances. Whether actual future results and developments will be consistent with the Company’s expectations and assumptions depends on a number of factors, including but not limited to (i) OSG’s ability to change substantially its capital structure; (ii) the Company’s ability to obtain adequate liquidity and financing sources; (iii) the Company’s ability to maintain customers’ confidence in our viability as a continuing entity and to attract and retain sufficient business from them; (iv) the Company’s ability to retain key employees, and (v) the overall strength and stability of general economic conditions of the financial and shipping industries, both in the U.S. and in global markets. The failure of any of these factors could materially adversely affect the successful reorganization of our businesses. 31Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. In addition, any plan of reorganization will rely upon financial projections, including with respect to revenues, EBITDA, debt service and cash flow. Financial forecasts are inherently speculative, and it is likely that one or more of the assumptions and estimates that are the basis of these financial forecasts will not be accurate. In the Company’s case, the forecasts are even more speculative than normal because they involve fundamental changes in the nature of the Company’s capital structure. Accordingly, the Company expects that its actual financial condition and results of operations will differ, perhaps materially, from what such forecasts anticipate. Consequently, there can be no assurance that the results or developments contemplated by any plan of reorganization the Company may implement will occur or, even if they do occur, that they will have the anticipated effects on the Company and its subsidiaries or businesses or operations. The failure of any such results or developments to materialize as anticipated could materially adversely affect the successful execution of any plan of reorganization. If the Company cannot attract, retain and motivate key employees, the Company’s revenue and earnings could be harmed. In order for the Company to be successful, the Company must continue to attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including technical, managerial, chartering and support positions. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, maritime professionals, and qualified chartering representatives is critical to the Company’s future. If the Company cannot attract qualified individuals, retain key executives and employees or motivate the Company’s employees, the Company’s business could be harmed. The Company’s filing for Chapter 11 may create uncertainty for employees and impact OSG’s ability to retain key employees and effectively recruit new employees. The Company’s ability to take measures to motivate and retain key employees is also subject to restrictions while operating under Chapter 11. The Company may experience increased levels of employee attrition. The Company may be required to recognize additional impairments in the value of the Company’s goodwill and/or other long-lived assets, which would increase expenses and reduce profitability. Goodwill represents the excess of the amount the Company paid to acquire businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of the acquisition. The Company tests goodwill for impairment annually or whenever events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Additionally, the Company’s other long-lived assets, such as vessels, are evaluated for impairments whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Either of these situations may occur for various reasons including changes in actual or expected income or cash. Impairment charges of $279,382 and $28,783 were recorded in 2012 and 2010, respectively. Impairments could occur in the future if market or interest rate environments deteriorate, expected future cash flows of the Company’s vessels decline, or if reporting unit carrying values change materially compared with changes in respective fair values. Even if a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization is consummated, continued weakness or worsening of economic conditions could continue to adversely affect the Company’s financial performance and the Company’s liquidity. The global economic recession affecting the international tanker industry adversely affected the Company’s operating results and financial condition and was a primary factor leading to the Company filing for voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. Further, global financial markets have been experiencing contraction and volatility, especially with respect to key lenders to shipping companies. Economic conditions could also accelerate the continuing decline in demand for vessels, placing pressure on the Company’s results of operations and liquidity. If the global economic weakness and tightness in the credit markets continue for a greater period of time than anticipated or worsen, the Company’s profitability and related cash generation capability could be adversely affected and, therefore, affect the Company’s ability to meet the Company’s anticipated cash needs, impair the Company’s liquidity or increase the Company’s costs of borrowing. 32Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. As the Company streamlines its operations and reduces its general and administrative expenses, it needs to upgrade its management infrastructure and systems to maintain the quality of its operations and satisfaction of its customers. In connection with its Chapter 11 Cases, the Company has embarked on several initiatives to streamline its operations and reduce its general and administrative expenses, including reducing levels of management, increasing responsibilities of key personnel and centralizing its financial data operations. These initiatives have the inherent risk that implementation adversely impacts the Company’s control of the quality of its operations. Although it is impossible to predict what errors might occur as the result of inadequate controls or reduced staff, it is harder to manage a sizable operation with fewer personnel and, accordingly, it is more likely that errors will occur unless management infrastructure and systems are upgraded and monitored. The commencement and prosecution of the Chapter 11 Cases has consumed and will continue to consume a substantial portion of the time and attention of the Company’s management and will impact how its business is conducted, which may have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. The requirements of the Chapter 11 Cases have consumed and will continue to consume a substantial portion of the Company’s management’s time and attention and leave them with less time to devote to the operation of the Company’s business. This diversion of attention may materially adversely affect the conduct of OSG’s business, and, as a result, have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, particularly if the Chapter 11 Cases are protracted. As a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, OSG’s historical financial information may not be indicative of OSG’s future financial performance. The Company’s capital structure will likely be significantly altered under any plan of reorganization ultimately confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court. Under fresh-start reporting rules that may apply to the Company upon the effective date of any reorganization plan the Company may adopt, the Company’s assets and liabilities would be adjusted to fair values and the Company’s retained earnings would be restated to zero. Accordingly, if fresh-start reporting rules apply, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations following its emergence from Chapter 11 would not be comparable to the financial condition and results of operations reflected in the Company’s historical financial statements. In connection with the Chapter 11 Cases, it is also possible that additional restructuring and related charges may be identified and recorded in future periods. Such charges could be material to OSG’s consolidated financial position and results of operations in any given period. Finally, the structure of any reorganization may cause the Company’s financial conditions and results of operations following its emergence from Chapter 11 not to be comparable to the Company’s historical financial information. The Company’s common stock is no longer listed on a national securities exchange and is quoted only in the over-the-counter market, which could negatively affect the stock price and liquidity. Until the Company’s voluntary Chapter 11 filing on November 14, 2012, the shares of the Company’s common stock were listed on the NYSE under the symbol “OSG.” Upon the announcement of the Chapter 11 filing, the NYSE suspended the trading of the Company’s shares and the common stock commenced trading on the OTC market under the trading symbol “OSGIQ.” However, the extent of the public market for the common stock and the continued availability of quotations depend upon such factors as the aggregate market value of the common stock, the interest in maintaining a market in OSG’s common stock on the part of securities firms and other factors. The over-the-counter market is a significantly more limited market than the NYSE, and the quotation of OSG’s common stock in the over-the-counter market may result in a less liquid market available for existing and potential shareholders to trade shares of OSG’s common stock. This could further depress the trading price of the common stock and could also have a long-term adverse effect on the Company’s ability to raise capital. There can be no assurance that any public market for the common stock will exist in the future. 33Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. Trading in the Company’s securities during the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases is highly speculative and poses substantial risks. It is impossible to predict at this time whether or when the holders of the common stock of the Company or any of its other debt securities will receive any distribution with respect to, or be able to recover any portion of, their investments. Under the priority scheme established by the Bankruptcy Code, unless creditors agree otherwise, post-petition liabilities and pre-petition liabilities must be satisfied in full before shareholders are entitled to receive any distribution or retain any property under a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization. The ultimate recovery to creditors and/or shareholders, if any, will not be determined until confirmation of such a plan. No assurance can be given as to what values, if any, will be ascribed in the Chapter 11 Cases to each of these constituencies or what types or amounts of distributions, if any, they would receive. If certain requirements of the Bankruptcy Code are met, the plan can be confirmed notwithstanding its rejection by the class comprising the interests of Company equity security holders. In the event of cancellation of the Company’s equity or other debt securities, amounts invested by the holders of such securities will not be recoverable and such securities would have no value. Trading prices for the Company’s equity or other debt securities may bear little or no relationship to the actual recovery, if any, by the holders thereof in the Chapter 11 Cases. Accordingly, the Company urges extreme caution with respect to existing and future investments in OSG’s equity or other securities. In addition, the Bankruptcy Court has entered two orders that place certain limitations on trading in certain of our securities to protect the Company’s net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards, a tax asset of the Company, both prior to and potentially in connection with a bankruptcy plan of reorganization. For this reason, under one such order, investors need the Company’s consent or court approval before effecting any transactions in common stock of the Company if they hold, or would as a result of the transaction hold, at least 4.7% of the outstanding shares of such common stock. Under the other order, any person or entity that beneficially own claims against the Company totaling more than either (i) $25 million in aggregate of the 8.75% Debentures due 2013, the 8.125% Senior Notes due 2018, or the 7.5% Senior Notes due 2024, (ii) $67.5 million under that certain Credit Agreement dated as of February 9, 2006, or (iii) $90 million of any unsecured claims against the Company including those in the previous two categories, where each dollar amount is subject to revision by further notice from the Company (each, a “Substantial Claimholder”), may be required, pursuant to a subsequent motion of the Company and Bankruptcy Court order, either to seek the Company’s consent before effecting any further acquisition of claims against the Company, or to “sell down” a portion of its claims against the Company prior to a bankruptcy reorganization. Transfers or issuances of our equity, or a debt restructuring, may impair or reduce our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes in the future. Pursuant to U.S. tax rules, a corporation is generally permitted to deduct from taxable income in any year NOLs carried forward from prior years. Our ability to utilize these NOL carryforwards could be subject to a significant limitation if we were to undergo an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, during or as a result of our Chapter 11 Cases. The Bankruptcy Court has entered orders that place certain restrictions on trading in OSG common shares, and other procedures relating to trading in claims against OSG, during the Chapter 11 Cases. However, we can provide no assurances that these limitations will prevent an “ownership change” or that our ability to utilize our NOL carryforwards may not be significantly limited as a result of our reorganization. A restructuring of our debt pursuant to the Chapter 11 Cases may give rise to cancellation of debt, i.e. debt forgiveness (“COD”), which if it occurs would generally be non-taxable. If the COD is non-taxable, and we have remaining NOL carryforwards at the end of the tax year in which such COD arises, we will be required to reduce our NOL carryforwards and other attributes such as capital loss carryforwards and tax basis in assets, by an amount equal to the non-recognized COD. Therefore, it is possible that, as a result of the successful completion of plans for the conclusion of the Chapter 11 Cases, we will have a reduction of NOL carryforwards and/or other tax attributes in an amount that cannot be determined at this time and that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. 34Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. The Company has not made any determination with respect to reorganizing its capital structure, and any changes to its capital structure may have a material adverse effect on existing debt and security holders. Any reorganization of the Company’s capital structure may include exchanges of new debt or equity securities for existing securities, and such new debt or equity securities may be issued at different interest rates, payment schedules, and maturities than our existing securities. The Company may also modify or amend its existing securities to the same effect. Such exchanges or modifications are inherently complex to implement. The success of a reorganization, through any such exchanges or modifications will depend on approval by the Bankruptcy Court and the willingness of existing security holders to agree to the exchange or modification, and there can be no guarantee of success. If such exchanges or modifications are successful, holders of debt may find their holdings no longer have any value or are materially reduced in value, or they may be converted to equity and be diluted or receive debt with a principal amount that is less than the outstanding principal amount, longer maturities, and reduced interest rates. There can be no assurance that any new debt or equity securities will maintain their value at the time of issuance. Also, if the existing debt or equity security holders are adversely affected by a reorganization, it may adversely affect the Company’s ability to issue new debt or equity in the future. The Company may not be able to obtain confirmation of a reorganization. In order for the Company to emerge successfully from the Chapter 11 Cases as a viable entity, the Company, like any other Chapter 11 debtor, must obtain approval of a reorganization plan from its creditors and confirmation of a plan of reorganization through the Bankruptcy Court, and then successfully implement the plan of reorganization. The foregoing process requires the Company to (i) meet certain statutory requirements with respect to the adequacy of the disclosure statement relating to the plan of reorganization, (ii) solicit and obtain acceptances from creditors whose rights are impaired by the plan of reorganization and (iii) fulfill other statutory conditions with respect to the confirmation of the plan of reorganization. There can be no assurance that a reorganization plan proposed by the Company’s management will be approved by the Company’s creditors and confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court. In addition, the Bankruptcy Code imposes time limits on the period during which the Company’s management has the exclusive right to propose and solicit acceptances of a plan of reorganization. Extensions of this time period are subject to approval by the Bankruptcy Court. In addition, there remains a risk that creditors could seek to terminate such exclusivity and propose competing plans of reorganization without the input or consent of the Company’s management. There can be no assurance as to the timing of the acceptance or confirmation of a reorganization plan or that any conditions to the plan’s effectiveness will ever occur. The impact that prolonging completion of the Chapter 11 Cases may have on the Company’s operations cannot be accurately predicted or quantified. The continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases, particularly if the plan is not approved, confirmed, or implemented within the time frame proposed by management, or in the event that competing creditor plans are filed or proposed, could adversely affect the Company’s operations and relationships between the Company and its customers and charterers, suppliers, service providers and creditors as well as the viability of the Company’s joint venture interests; result in increased professional fees and similar expenses; and threaten the Company’s ability to obtain financing. Failure to confirm the plan or any delay of its effectiveness could further weaken the Company’s liquidity position, which could jeopardize the Company’s exit from Chapter 11, force the sale of the Company or certain of its material assets or result in the appointment of a trustee and/or conversion of the Company’s Chapter 11 Cases to a liquidation under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. Industry specific risk factors: The highly cyclical nature of the industry may lead to volatile changes in charter rates and vessel values, which may adversely affect the Company’s earnings. Factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of the Company’s control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable and may adversely affect the values of the Company’s vessels and result in significant fluctuations in the amount of charter hire the Company may earn, which could result in significant fluctuations in OSG’s quarterly results and cash flows. The factors that influence the demand for tanker capacity include: •demand for and availability of oil and oil products, which affect the need for vessel capacity; 35Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. •global and regional economic and political conditions which among other things, could impact the supply of oil as well as trading patterns and the demand for various types of vessels; •changes in the production of crude oil, including production by OPEC, the United States and other key producers, which impact the need for vessel capacity; •developments in international trade; •changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances that cargoes are transported; •environmental concerns and regulations; •new pipeline construction and expansions; •weather; and •competition from alternative sources of energy. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: •the number of newbuilding deliveries; •the scrapping rate of older vessels; •the number of vessels that are used for storage or as floating storage offloading service vessels; •the conversion of vessels from transporting oil and oil products to carrying dry bulk cargo and the reverse conversion; •the number of vessels that are out of service; and •environmental and maritime regulations. The market value of vessels fluctuates significantly, which could adversely affect OSG’s liquidity or otherwise adversely affect its financial condition. The market value of vessels has fluctuated over time. The fluctuation in market value of vessels over time is based upon various factors, including: •age of the vessel; •general economic and market conditions affecting the tanker industry, including the availability of vessel financing; •number of vessels in the world fleet; •types and sizes of vessels available; •changes in trading patterns affecting demand for particular sizes and types of vessels; •cost of newbuildings; •prevailing level of charter rates; •competition from other shipping companies; •other modes of transportation; and •technological advances in vessel design and propulsion. Vessel values have declined during the past few years. As vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. These factors will affect the value of the Company’s vessels at the time of any vessel sale. If OSG sells a vessel at a sale price that is less than the vessel’s carrying amount on its financial statements, the Company will incur a loss on the sale and a reduction in earnings and surplus. In addition, declining values of the Company’s vessels could adversely affect the Company’s liquidity by limiting its ability to raise cash by refinancing vessels. 36Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. An increase in the supply of vessels without a commensurate increase in demand for such vessels could cause charter rates to remain at depressed levels or to further decline, which could have a material adverse effect on OSG’s revenues, profitability and cash flows and on the value of its vessels. OSG depends on short term duration or “spot” charters, for a significant portion of its revenues, further exposing OSG to fluctuations in market conditions. In 2012, 2011 and 2010, OSG derived approximately 64%, 65% and 64%, respectively, of its TCE revenues in the spot market. The marine transportation industry has been highly cyclical, as the profitability and asset values of companies in the industry have fluctuated based on changes in the supply and demand of vessels. If the number of new ships delivered exceeds the number of vessels being scrapped, capacity will increase. Historically, we have generally seen the supply of vessels increase with deliveries of new vessels and decreases with the scrapping of older vessels. The newbuilding order book equaled 12% of the existing world tanker fleet as of December 31, 2012, down from 18% and 29% as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. In addition, vessel supply is affected by the number of vessels that are used for floating storage because vessels that are used for storage are not available to transport crude oil and petroleum products. Utilization of vessels for storage is affected by expectations of changes in the price of oil and petroleum products, with utilization generally increasing if prices are expected to increase more than storage costs and generally decreasing if they are not. A reduction in vessel utilization for storage will generally increase vessel supply. For example, in 2010, 81 vessels were released from storage and reentered the trading fleet. Since the 2010 release, storage on vessels at sea has been low, in part because then current prices of crude oil have generally exceeded the future prices, a condition which allows companies to replace inventories at lower prices, encouraging the drawdown of commercial inventories. Supply has exceeded demand during the past four years, resulting in lower charter rates across the industry. If this trend continues, the charter rates for the Company’s vessels could continue at current depressed levels that are well below historical averages, which would have a material adverse effect on OSG’s revenues, profitability and cash flows if sustained over a long period of time. Shipping is a business with inherent risks, and OSG’s insurance may not be adequate to cover its losses. OSG’s vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events including, but not limited to: •marine disasters; •bad weather; •mechanical failures; •human error; •war, terrorism and piracy; and •other unforeseen circumstances or events. In addition, transporting crude oil creates a risk of business interruptions due to political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities, labor strikes, port closings and boycotts. Any of these events may result in loss of revenues, decreased cash flows and increased costs. While the Company carries insurance to protect against certain risks involved in the conduct of its business, risks may arise against which the Company is not adequately insured. For example, a catastrophic spill could exceed OSG’s $1 billion per vessel insurance coverage and have a material adverse effect on its operations. In addition, OSG may not be able to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future, and OSG cannot guarantee that any particular claim will be paid by its insurers. In the past, new and stricter environmental regulations have led to higher costs for insurance covering environmental damage or pollution, and new regulations could lead to similar increases or even make this type of insurance unavailable. Furthermore, even if insurance coverage is adequate to cover the Company’s losses, OSG may not be able to timely obtain a replacement ship in the event of a loss. OSG may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on its own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which OSG obtains insurance coverage for tort liability. OSG’s payment of these calls could result in significant expenses which would reduce its profits and cash flows or cause losses. 37Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. Constraints on capital availability adversely affect the tanker industry and OSG’s business. Constraints on capital that have occurred during recent years have adversely affected the financial condition of certain of the Company’s customers, joint venture partners, financial lenders and suppliers, including shipyards from whom the Company has contracted to purchase vessels. Entities that suffer a material adverse impact on their financial condition may be unable or unwilling to comply with their contractual commitments to OSG including the refusal or inability of customers to pay charter hire to OSG, failure of shipyards to construct and deliver to OSG newbuilds or the inability or unwillingness of joint venture partners or financial lenders to honor their commitments to contribute funds to a joint venture or lend funds. While OSG seeks to monitor the financial condition of such entities, the availability and accuracy of information about the financial condition of such entities and the actions that OSG may take to reduce possible losses resulting from the failure of such entities to comply with their contractual obligations may be limited. Such failure of customers, joint venture partners, financial lenders and suppliers to meet their contractual obligations may have a material adverse effect on OSG’s revenues, profitability and cash flows. In addition, adverse financial conditions may inhibit customers, joint venture partners, financial lenders and suppliers from entering into new commitments with OSG, which could have a material adverse effect on revenues, profitability and cash flows. See also “—Company specific risk factors—The Company is subject to credit risks with respect to its counterparties on contracts and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause the Company to suffer losses on such contracts, decreasing revenues and earnings” and “—Company specific risk factors—OSG has incurred significant indebtedness which could affect its ability to finance its operations, pursue desirable business opportunities and successfully run its business in the future, and therefore make it more difficult for OSG to fulfill its obligations under its indebtedness.” Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels could adversely affect our business. The frequency of pirate attacks on seagoing vessels remains high, particularly in the western part of the Indian Ocean and off the west coast of Africa. If piracy attacks result in regions in which the company’s vessels are deployed being characterized by insurers as “war risk” zones, as the Gulf of Aden has been, or Joint War Committee “war and strikes” listed areas, premiums payable for such insurance coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. Crew costs and costs of employing onboard security guards could also increase in such circumstances. In addition, while OSG believes the charterer remains liable for charter payments when a vessel is seized by pirates, the charterer may dispute this and withhold charter hire until the vessel is released. A charterer may also claim that a vessel seized by pirates was not “on-hire” for a certain number of days and it is therefore entitled to cancel the charter party, a claim that the Company would dispute. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against the Company’s vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for its vessels, could have a material adverse impact on OSG’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Terrorist attacks and international hostilities and instability can affect the tanker industry, which could adversely affect OSG’s business. Terrorist attacks, the outbreak of war, or the existence of international hostilities could damage the world economy, adversely affect the availability of and demand for crude oil and petroleum products and adversely affect the Company’s ability to charter its vessels and the charter rates payable under any charters. Additionally, OSG operates in a sector of the economy that is likely to be adversely impacted by the effects of political instability, terrorist or other attacks, war or international hostilities. These factors could also increase the costs to OSG of conducting its business, particularly crew, insurance and security costs, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profitability and cash flows. 38Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. OSG conducts its operations internationally, subjecting the Company to changing economic, political and governmental conditions abroad which may adversely affect our business. The Company conducts its operations internationally, and its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected by changing economic, political and government conditions in the countries and regions where its vessels are employed, including •pandemics or epidemics which may result in a disruption of worldwide trade including quarantines of certain areas; •currency fluctuations; •the imposition of taxes by flag states, port states and jurisdictions in which OSG or its subsidiaries are incorporated or where its vessels operate; •adverse changes in other international laws impacting OSG’s business; and •expropriation of its vessels. The occurrence of such events could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, OSG’s international operations subject it to certain risks regarding taxation of foreign subsidiary income, see “—Company specific risk factors— OSG’s financial condition would be materially adversely affected if the shipping income of OSG’s foreign subsidiaries becomes subject to current taxation in the U.S.” Our vessels may be directed to call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. government, which could negatively affect the trading price of our common shares. From time to time, certain of our vessels, on the instructions of the charterers or pool manager responsible for the commercial management of such vessels, have called and may again call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government, the UN or the EU and countries identified by the U.S. government, the UN or the EU as state sponsors of terrorism. The U.S., UN and EU sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. Some sanctions may also apply to transportation of goods (including crude oil) originating in sanctioned countries (particularly Iran), even if the vessel does not travel to those countries, or otherwise acting on behalf of sanctioned persons. Sanctions may include the imposition of penalties and fines against companies violating national law or threaten that companies acting outside the jurisdiction of the sanctioning power may themselves become the target of sanctions. Non-U.S. subsidiaries of OSG contributed VLCCs they owned or chartered-in to Tankers International (“TI”), a commercial pool that charters out vessels which in turn call on ports throughout the world in compliance with applicable law. The Company learns where a vessel contributed by one of its non-U.S. subsidiaries has or will be traded after the voyage has been fixed. In early 2012, TI pool vessels made five port calls in Iran, in compliance with applicable law, including one port call made by a vessel owned by a non-U.S. subsidiary of OSG in January 2012. Even when these vessels, including the one owned by a non-U.S. subsidiary of OSG, called on an Iranian ports, neither the Company itself nor any of its U.S person affiliates or employees had any role or involvement with TI pool transactions involving Iran. As a participant in the pool, the Company receives a share of the TI pool’s net revenues from a voyage based on its contribution of vessels to the TI pool, regardless of whether the voyage was performed by a vessel contributed by one of its non-U.S. subsidiaries or by another pool participant. OSG’s share of the TI pool’s net revenue (after deducting OSG’s share of administrative costs) for 2012 derived from all voyages of all TI Pool vessels involving a port call in Iran totaled approximately $1,318. The TI pool decided to terminate all new business involving Iranian ports in February 2012 after the EU adopted sanctions on such activity. No vessel owned or chartered-in by OSG or any of its domestic or foreign subsidiaries has called on an Iranian port since January 2012, and until the U.S. and EU sanctions regimes permit such calls, the Company will not allow its vessels to make such calls, whether through a pooling arrangement or otherwise. 39Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations and intend to maintain such compliance and that we do not and do not intend to engage in sanctionable activity, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation or sanctionable activity could result in fines or other penalties, or the imposition of sanctions against the Company, and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in the Company and negatively affect our reputation and investor perception of the value of our common stock.. Compliance with environmental laws or regulations, including those relating to the emission of greenhouse gases, may adversely affect OSG’s business. The Company’s operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national and local environmental protection laws, regulations, treaties, conventions and standards in force in international waters, the jurisdictional waters of the countries in which OSG’s vessels operate, as well as the countries of its vessels’ registration. Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills. They also regulate other water pollution issues, including discharge of ballast water and effluents and air emissions, including emission of greenhouse gases. These requirements impose significant capital and operating costs on OSG. Environmental laws and regulations also can affect the resale value or significantly reduce the useful lives of the Company’s vessels, require a reduction in carrying capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability or higher cost of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to, or detention in, certain jurisdictional waters or ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, OSG could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous substances from its vessels or otherwise in connection with its operations. OSG could also become subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to the release of or exposure to hazardous materials associated with its current or historic operations. Violations of or liabilities under environmental requirements also can result in substantial penalties, fines and other sanctions, including in certain instances, seizure or detention of the Company’s vessels. OSG could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, fines, penalties, third-party claims and natural resource damages, as the result of an oil spill or liabilities under environmental laws. The Company is subject to the oversight of several government agencies, including the U.S. Coast Guard, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Maritime Administration of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA 90”) affects all vessel owners shipping oil or hazardous material to, from or within the United States. OPA 90 allows for potentially unlimited liability without regard to fault for owners, operators and bareboat charterers of vessels for oil pollution in U.S. waters. Similarly, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, 1969, as amended, which has been adopted by most countries outside of the United States, imposes liability for oil pollution in international waters. OPA 90 expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries. Coastal states in the United States have enacted pollution prevention liability and response laws, many providing for unlimited liability. Similarly, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, 1969, as amended, which has been adopted by most countries outside of the United States, imposes liability for oil pollution in international waters. In addition, in complying with OPA 90, International Maritime Organization (“IMO”) regulations, EU directives and other existing laws and regulations and those that may be adopted, shipowners likely will incur substantial additional capital and/or operating expenditures in meeting new regulatory requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. Key regulatory initiatives that are anticipated to require substantial additional capital and/or operating expenditures in the next several years include more stringent limits on the sulfur content of fuel oil for vessels operating in certain areas and more stringent requirements for management and treatment of ballast water. See the discussion of “Environmental and Security Matters Relating to Bulk Shipping” above. Other government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become more strict in the future and require the Company to incur significant capital expenditures on its vessels to keep them in compliance, or even to scrap or sell certain vessels altogether. Such expenditures could result in financial and operational impacts that may be material to OSG’s financial statements. 40Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. Accidents involving highly publicized oil spills and other mishaps involving vessels can be expected in the tanker industry, and such accidents or other events could be expected to result in the adoption of even stricter laws and regulations, which could limit the Company’s operations or its ability to do business and which could have a material adverse effect on OSG’s business, financial results and cash flows. Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries, including the U.S., and international organizations, including the EU, the IMO and the United Nations, have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These regulatory measures include, among others, adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. Such actions could result in significant financial and operational impacts on the Company’s business, including requiring OSG to install new emission controls, acquire allowances or pay taxes related to its greenhouse gas emissions, or administer and manage a greenhouse gas emission program. See “Environmental and Security Matters Relating to Bulk Shipping .” In addition to the added costs, the concern over climate change and regulatory measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions may reduce global demand for oil and oil products, which would have an adverse effect on OSG’s business, financial results and cash flows. OSG’s revenues are subject to seasonal variations. OSG operates its tankers in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand for tanker capacity, and therefore, charter rates. Charter rates for tankers are typically higher in the fall and winter months as a result of increased oil consumption in the Northern Hemisphere. Because a majority of the Company’s vessels trade in the spot market, seasonality has affected OSG’s operating results on a quarter-to-quarter basis and could continue to do so in the future. Such seasonality may be outweighed in any period by then current economic conditions or tanker industry fundamentals. Company specific risk factors: OSG has incurred significant indebtedness which could affect its ability to finance its operations, pursue desirable business opportunities and successfully run its business in the future, and therefore make it more difficult for OSG to fulfill its obligations under its indebtedness. OSG has, and expects after emergence from Chapter 11 that it will continue to have, significant amounts of indebtedness. Although the Company is seeking to substantially reduce such debt in Chapter 11, it cannot predict if, or to what extent, these efforts will be successful. As of December 31, 2012, OSG had $2.6 billion of indebtedness that had been classified as liabilities subject to compromise. OSG’s substantial indebtedness and interest expense could have important consequences, including: •limiting OSG’s ability to use a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations in other areas of its business, including for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities, because OSG must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service its debt; •to the extent OSG’s future cash flows are insufficient, requiring the Company to seek to incur additional indebtedness in order to make planned capital expenditures and other expenses or investments ; •limiting OSG’s ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and other expenses or investments planned by the Company; •limiting the Company’s flexibility and ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation, and OSG’s business and industry; •limiting OSG’s ability to satisfy its obligations under its indebtedness; •increasing OSG’s vulnerability to a downturn in its business and to adverse economic and industry conditions generally; 41Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. •placing OSG at a competitive disadvantage as compared to its competitors that are less leveraged; •limiting the Company’s ability, or increasing the costs, to refinance indebtedness; and •limiting the Company’s ability to enter into hedging transactions by reducing the number of counterparties with whom OSG can enter into such transactions as well as the volume of those transactions. OSG’s ability to continue to fund its obligations and to reduce debt may be affected by general economic, financial market, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, among other things. An inability to fund the Company’s debt requirements or reduce debt could have a material adverse effect on OSG’s business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The Company may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of its indebtedness. The Company’s earnings and cash flow vary significantly over time due to the cyclical nature of the tanker industry. As a result, the amount of debt that OSG can manage in some periods may not be appropriate in other periods. Additionally, future cash flow may be insufficient to meet the Company’s debt obligations and commitments. Any insufficiency could negatively impact OSG’s business. A range of economic, competitive, financial, business, industry and other factors will affect future financial performance, and, as a result, the Company’s ability to generate cash flow from operations and to pay debt. Many of these factors, such as charter rates, economic and financial conditions in the tanker industry and the global economy or competitive initiatives of competitors, are beyond the Company’s control. If OSG does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy its debt obligations, OSG may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as: •refinancing or restructuring its debt; •selling tankers or other assets; •reducing or delaying investments and capital expenditures; or •seeking to raise additional capital. No assurance can be given that undertaking alternative financing plans, if necessary, would be successful in allowing OSG to meet its debt obligations. The Company’s ability to restructure or refinance its debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets, its access thereto and OSG’s financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of debt could be at higher interest rates and may require the Company to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict OSG’s business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict OSG from adopting some of these alternatives. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit OSG to meet its scheduled debt service obligations. The Company’s inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy its debt obligations, or to obtain alternative financing, could materially and adversely affect OSG’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. The Company faces risks arising from potential material weaknesses in its internal control environment. As a result of the matters addressed in the recently completed Company inquiry, as further described in Note 2, “Company Inquiry and Restatement,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, as well as an internal review by Company management, management identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting with respect to its accounting for income taxes and fair market valuation of interest rates. While management has taken remediation actions to address material weaknesses, its remediation actions may prove to be ineffective or inadequate and expose the Company to further risk of misstatements in its financial statements. In such circumstances, investors and other users of the Company’s financial statements may lose confidence in the reliability of the Company’s financial information and the Company could fail to comply with certain representations, warranties and covenants in its debt and other financing-related agreements or be obligated to incur additional costs to improve the internal controls. The Company’s failure or inability to remediate the material weakness in a timely and effective manner could also adversely affect its reputation among customers and its operating prospects, if customers perceive the Company as experiencing financial control or other financial difficulties. See Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures,” for further description of the material weaknesses identified by management and related remediation actions. 42Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. Litigation and regulatory inquiries associated with the restatement of the Company’s prior period financial statements could result in substantial costs, penalties and other adverse effects. Substantial costs may be incurred to defend and resolve regulatory proceedings and litigation arising out of or relating to matters addressed in the recently completed Company inquiry. These proceedings include the ongoing audits that are in process by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) in the U.S. as well as audits expected to commence of the Company’s U.S. federal income tax returns for some of the periods affected by the restatement. In completing the restatement, the Company examined the appropriateness of the Company’s accounting treatment of the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the credit agreements for which OIN was a co-obligor with the Company on a joint and several basis. In conducting this analysis, the Company also determined that additional financial statement reserves were required with respect to certain other lesser tax compliance matters, including intercompany balances between OIN and the Company that gave rise to deemed dividend income to the Company. The Company cannot predict when the ongoing IRS audits will be completed or the amount or timing of the final resolution with the IRS or other relevant taxing authorities of the matters that gave rise to the restatement. Further, the Company has not recorded penalties related to the ongoing IRS audits. Penalties, if imposed, may be material. The Company is also subject to other regulatory and litigation proceedings relating to, or arising out of, the restatement, including a pending investigation by the SEC and purported securities class action lawsuits seeking relief against certain of the Company’s officers and its directors. These proceedings could also result in civil or criminal fines and other non-monetary penalties. The Company has not reserved any amount in respect of these matters in its consolidated financial statements. The Company cannot predict whether any monetary losses it experiences in the proceedings will be covered by insurance or whether insurance proceeds recovered will be sufficient to offset such losses. Pending civil, regulatory and criminal proceedings may also divert the efforts and attention of the Company’s management from business operations, particularly if adverse developments are experienced in any of them, such as an expansion of the investigations being conducted by the SEC. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” for further discussion of these pending matters. The Company’s business would be adversely affected if it failed to comply with the Jones Act provisions on coastwise trade, or if these provisions were repealed and if changes in international trade agreements were to occur. The Company is subject to the Jones Act and other federal laws that restrict maritime transportation between points in the United States (known as marine cabotage services or coastwise trade) to vessels built and registered in the United States and owned and manned by U.S. citizens. The Company is responsible for monitoring the foreign ownership of its common stock and other interests to ensure compliance with the Jones Act. If the Company does not comply with these restrictions, it would be prohibited from operating its vessels in U.S. coastwise trade, and under certain circumstances would be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of U.S. coastwise trading rights for the Company’s vessels, fines or forfeiture of the vessels. In order to ensure compliance with Jones Act citizenship requirements, and in accordance with the certificate of incorporation and by-laws of the Company, the Board of Directors of the Company adopted a requirement in July 1976 that at least 77% (the “Minimum Percentage”) of the Company’s common stock must be held by U.S. citizens. While the percentage of U.S. citizenship ownership of the Company’s outstanding common stock fluctuates daily, at times in the past several years it has declined to the Minimum Percentage. Any purported transfer of common stock in violation of these ownership provisions will be ineffective to transfer the shares of common stock or any voting, dividend or other rights associated with them. The existence and enforcement of this U.S. citizen ownership requirement could have an adverse impact on the liquidity or market value of our common stock in the event that U.S. citizens were unable to transfer shares of our common stock to non-U.S. citizens. Furthermore, under certain circumstances this ownership requirement could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company. 43Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. Additionally, the Jones Act restrictions on the provision of maritime cabotage services are subject to exceptions under certain international trade agreements, including the General Agreement on Trade in Services (“GATS”) and the North American Free Trade Agreement (“NAFTA”). If maritime cabotage services were included in GATS, NAFTA or other international trade agreements, or if the restrictions contained in the Jones Act were otherwise repealed or altered, the transportation of maritime cargo between U.S. ports could be opened to international flag or international-manufactured vessels. During the past several years, interest groups have lobbied Congress to repeal the Jones Act to facilitate international flag competition for trades and cargoes currently reserved for U.S. Flag vessels under the Jones Act and cargo preference laws. The Company believes that continued efforts will be made to modify or repeal the Jones Act and cargo preference laws currently benefiting U.S. Flag vessels. Because international vessels may have lower construction costs, wage rates and operating costs, this could significantly increase competition in the coastwise trade, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. OSG may not be able to renew time charters when they expire or enter into new time charters for newbuilds. There can be no assurance that any of the Company’s existing time charters will be renewed at comparable rates or if renewed or entered into, that they will be at favorable rates. If, upon expiration of the existing time charters or delivery of newbuilds, OSG is unable to obtain time charters or voyage charters at desirable rates, the Company’s profitability and cash flows may be adversely affected. Delays or cost overruns in building new vessels, including delivery of any new vessels, the scheduled shipyard maintenance of the Company’s existing vessels, or conversion of the Company’s existing vessels could adversely affect OSG’s results of operations. Building new vessels, scheduled shipyard maintenance or conversion of vessels are subject to risks of delay (including the failure of suppliers to deliver new vessels) or cost overruns caused by circumstances including but not limited to, the following: •financial difficulties of the shipyard building, repairing or converting a vessel, including bankruptcy; •unforeseen quality or engineering problems; •work stoppages; •weather interference; •unanticipated cost increases; •delays in receipt of necessary materials or equipment; •changes to design specifications; and •inability to obtain the requisite permits, approvals or certifications from the U.S. Coast Guard or international foreign flag state authorities and the applicable classification society upon completion of work. Significant delays and cost overruns could increase the Company’s expected contract commitments, which would have an adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, borrowing capacity and results of operations. Furthermore, delays would result in vessels being out-of-service for extended periods of time, and therefore not earning revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on OSG’s financial condition and results of operations, including cash flows. The Company’s remedies for losses resulting from shipyards’ failure to comply with their contractual commitments may be limited by such contracts, certain of which contain liquidated damages provisions that limit the amount of monetary damages that may be claimed or that limit the Company’s right to cancellation of the building contract. While purchase price payments for newbuild vessels made prior to vessel delivery to international shipyards are generally supported by guarantees from financial institutions, such as banks or insurance companies, such payments to U.S. shipyards historically have been supported by liens on the work in progress, including steel and equipment used for constructing the vessel, and not by guarantees from financial institutions. Due to these conventions, if a U.S. shipyard fails to deliver a contracted vessel, the Company’s investment may be supported only by the Company’s liens on the work in progress, which may result in a loss of part or all of the Company’s investment. Even with a financial institution guarantee, the Company may not be able to recover in a timely matter, or at all, its loss resulting from a shipyard’s failure to deliver. 44Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. Termination or change in the nature of OSG’s relationship with any of the pools in which it participates could adversely affect its business. As of May 31, 2013, all but two of the Company’s Very Large Crude Carriers (“VLCCs”) participate in the Tankers International pool. At December 31, 2012, ten of OSG’s Aframaxes participate in the Aframax International pool. Five of the Company’s crude Panamaxes and two of its Panamax Product Carriers participate directly in Panamax International. Participation in these pools is intended to enhance the financial performance of the Company’s vessels as a result of the higher vessel utilization. Any participant in any of these pools has the right to withdraw upon notice in accordance with the relevant pool agreement. The Company cannot predict whether the pools in which its vessels operate will continue to exist in the future. After the Chapter 11 filing, some participants in the pools have withdrawn or announced their intention to withdraw from pools in which OSG participates, or subjected OSG to trading restrictions within the pools. In addition, in recent years the EU has published guidelines on the application of the EU antitrust rules to traditional agreements for maritime services such as pools. While the Company believes that all the pools it participates in comply with EU rules, there has been limited administrative and judicial interpretation of the rules. Restrictive interpretations of the guidelines could adversely affect the ability to commercially market the respective types of vessels in pools. In the highly competitive international market, OSG may not be able to compete effectively for charters with companies with greater resources The Company’s vessels are employed in a highly competitive market. Competition arises from other vessel owners, including major oil companies, which may have substantially greater resources than OSG does. Competition for the transportation of crude oil and other petroleum products depends on price, location, size, age, condition, and the acceptability of the vessel operator to the charterer. The Company believes that because ownership of the world tanker fleet is highly fragmented, no single vessel owner is able to influence charter rates. To the extent OSG enters into new geographic regions or provides new services, it may not be able to compete profitably. New markets may involve competitive factors that differ from those of the Company’s current markets, and the competitors in those markets may have greater financial strength and capital resources than OSG does. Changes in demand in specialized markets in which the Company currently trades may lead the Company to redeploy certain vessels to other markets. The Company deploys its vessels in several specialized markets, including, without limitation, lightering in the Delaware Bay. The Company conducts those lightering operations with two ATBs, which were constructed using funds withdrawn from the Company’s Capital Construction Fund (“CCF”). If lower demand in these markets adversely affects the Company’s financial position, the Company may consider redeploying these two ATBs in other markets. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete profitably in the new markets or that the ATBs can be fixed in new markets without substantial modification. Operating costs and capital expenses will increase as the Company’s vessels age. In general, capital expenditures and other costs necessary for maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increase as the age of the vessel increases. Accordingly, it is likely that the operating costs of OSG’s vessels will increase. In addition, changes in governmental regulations and compliance with Classification Society standards may require OSG to make additional expenditures for new equipment. In order to add such equipment, OSG may be required to take its vessels out of service. There can be no assurance that market conditions will justify such expenditures or enable OSG to operate its older vessels profitably during the remainder of their economic lives. 45Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. Certain potential customers will not use vessels older than a specified age, even if they have been recently rebuilt. All of the Company’s existing articulated tug barges (“ATBs”) with the exception of the OSG Vision/OSG 350 and the OSG Horizon/OSG 351were originally constructed more than 25 years ago. While all of these tug-barge units were rebuilt and double-hulled since 1998 and are “in-class,” meaning the vessel has been certified by a classification society as being built and maintained in accordance with the rules of that classification society and complies with the applicable rules and regulations of the vessel’s country of registry and applicable international conventions, some potential customers have stated that they will not charter vessels that are more than 20 years old, even if they have been rebuilt. No assurance can be given that customers will continue to view rebuilt vessels as suitable. If more customers differentiate rebuilt vessels, time charter rates for our rebuilt ATBs will likely be adversely affected or they may not be employable. The Company is subject to credit risks with respect to its counterparties on contracts and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause the Company to suffer losses on such contracts, decreasing revenues and earnings. The Company charters its vessels to other parties, who pay the Company a daily rate of hire. The Company also enters into contracts of affreightment (“COAs”) and Voyage Charters. Historically, the Company has not experienced material problems collecting charter hire but the global economic downturn of recent years has affected charterers more severely than the prior recessions that have occurred since the Company’s establishment more than 40 years ago. The Company also time charters or bareboat charters some of its vessels from other parties and its continued use and operation of such vessels depends on the vessel owners’ compliance with the terms of the time charter or bareboat charter. Additionally, prior to the Chapter 11 filing and potentially after confirmation of a plan of reorganization, the Company entered into derivative contracts (FFAs, bunker swaps, interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts). All of these contracts subject the Company to counterparty credit risk. As a result, the Company is subject to credit risks at various levels, including with charterers or cargo interests. If the counterparties fail to meet their obligations, the Company could suffer losses on such contracts which would decrease revenues, cash flows and earnings. OSG’s financial condition would be materially adversely affected if the shipping income of OSG’s foreign subsidiaries becomes subject to current taxation in the U.S. As a result of changes made by the American Jobs Creations Act of 2004 (“2004 Act”), the Company does not include in its U.S. tax return on a current basis the unrepatriated shipping income earned by its international flag vessels, which in recent years represented substantially all of the Company’s pre-tax income. These changes in the 2004 Act were made to make U.S. controlled shipping companies competitive with foreign-controlled shipping companies, which are generally incorporated in jurisdictions in which they either do not pay income taxes or pay minimal income taxes. The taxation of OSG’s foreign subsidiaries under U.S. laws is a complex area and is subject to ongoing analysis and recalculation, which can have a material impact on the Company, see Note 2, “Company Inquiry and Restatement,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statement and Supplementary Data.” The President and several Congressmen and Senators have announced support for repealing certain tax provisions that purportedly incentivize companies to move jobs from the U.S. to foreign countries.. While the Company believes that the changes made in the 2004 Act with respect to foreign shipping income do not “incentivize moving jobs offshore,” and, in fact, have enabled the Company to expand its U.S. Flag fleet and create jobs in the U.S., Congress may decide to repeal the changes made in the 2004 Act with respect to taxation of foreign shipping income for the aforementioned reason or as part of initiatives to reduce the U.S. budget deficit or to reform the U.S. corporate tax regime. Such repeal, either directly or indirectly by limiting or reducing benefits received under the 2004 Act, could have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial results and cash flows. 46Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. Trading and complementary hedging activities in Forward Freight Agreements (“FFAs”) subject the Company to trading risks and the Company may suffer trading losses that reduce earnings. Due to shipping market volatility, success in this industry requires constant adjustment of the balance between chartering out vessels for long periods of time and trading them on a spot basis. The Company seeks to manage and mitigate that risk through trading and complementary hedging activities in forward freight agreements, or FFAs. However, there is no assurance that the Company will be able at all times to successfully protect itself from volatility in the shipping market. The Company may not successfully mitigate its risks, leaving it exposed to unprofitable contracts and may suffer trading losses that reduce earnings and surplus. The Company does not intend to enter into derivative financial instruments of any type during the pendency of the Chapter 11 proceedings. The Company may face unexpected drydock costs for its vessels. Vessels must be drydocked periodically. The cost of repairs and renewals required at each drydock are difficult to predict with certainty and can be substantial. The Company’s insurance does not cover these costs. In addition, vessels may have to be drydocked in the event of accidents or other unforeseen damage. OSG’s insurance may not cover all of these costs. Large drydocking expenses could adversely affect the Company’s financial results and cash flows. Maritime claimants could arrest OSG’s vessels, which could interrupt its cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. While the Company’s Chapter 11 filing has provided the Company with an automatic stay against the arrest of a vessel because of an obligation arising before the Chapter 11 filing, and against exercising control over the Company’s property on a post-petition basis, such stay may not be recognized in a specific jurisdiction, and the stay does not generally apply to obligations arising after the Chapter 11 filing. While the Company has obtained recognition of the Chapter 11 proceedings and the automatic stay in South Africa and in the Courts of England and Wales, the arrest or attachment of one or more of the Company’s vessels could interrupt OSG’s cash flow and require it to pay a significant amount of money to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel that is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in the Company’s fleet for claims relating to another vessel in its fleet. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 