ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important risk factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements made in this report or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. If any of the circumstances or events described below actually arise or occur, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Industry specific risk factors: The highly cyclical nature of the industry may lead to volatile changes in charter rates and vessel values, which may adversely affect the Company’s earnings Factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of the Company’s control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable and may adversely affect the values of the Company’s vessels and result in significant fluctuations in the amount of charter hire the Company may earn, which could result in significant fluctuations in OSG’s quarterly results. The factors that influence the demand for tanker capacity include: • demand for oil and oil products, which affect the need for vessel capacity; • global and regional economic and political conditions which among other things, could impact the supply of oil as well as trading patterns and the demand for various types of vessels; • changes in the production of crude oil, particularly by OPEC and other key producers, which impact the need for vessel capacity; • developments in international trade; • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances that cargoes are transported; • environmental concerns and regulations; • new pipeline construction and expansions; • weather; and • competition from alternative sources of energy. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: • the number of newbuilding deliveries; • the scrapping rate of older vessels; 2009 Annual Report 25 • the number of vessels that are used for storage or as floating storage offloading service vessels; • the conversion of vessels from transporting oil and oil products to carrying dry bulk cargo and the reverse conversion; • the number of vessels that are out of service; and • environmental and maritime regulations. An increase in the supply of vessels without an increase in demand for such vessels could cause charter rates to decline, which could have a material adverse effect on OSG’s revenues and profitability Historically, the marine transportation industry has been cyclical. The profitability and asset values of companies in the industry have fluctuated based on changes in the supply and demand of vessels. The supply of vessels generally increases with deliveries of new vessels and decreases with the scrapping of older vessels. The newbuilding order book equaled 31% of the existing world tanker fleet as of December 31, 2009 and no assurance can be given that the order book will not increase further in proportion to the existing fleet. If the number of new ships delivered exceeds the number of vessels being scrapped, capacity will increase. In addition, if dry bulk vessels are converted to oil tankers, the supply of oil tankers will increase. If supply increases and demand does not, the charter rates for the Company’s vessels could decline significantly. A decline in charter rates could have a material adverse effect on OSG’s revenues and profitability. Charter rates may decline from their current level, which could have a material adverse effect on OSG’s revenues and profitability Because many of the factors that influence the supply of, and demand for, tanker capacity are unpredictable and beyond the Company’s control, the nature, timing and degree of changes in charter rates are unpredictable. The global economic recession that started in 2008 and its accompanying adverse impact on demand has resulted in a decline in charter rates. The lower charter rates have adversely affected OSG’s revenues and profitability and any additional declines in charter rates could have a material adverse effect on OSG’s revenues and profitability. OSG’s revenues are subject to seasonal variations OSG operates its tankers in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand for tanker capacity, and therefore, charter rates. Charter rates for tankers are typically higher in the fall and winter months as a result of increased oil consumption in the Northern Hemisphere. Because a majority of the Company’s vessels trade in the spot market, seasonality has affected OSG’s operating results on a quarter-to-quarter basis and could continue to do so in the future. The global economic recession and constraints on capital availability that commenced in 2008 adversely affects the tanker industry and OSG’s business The current global economic recession and constraints on capital have adversely affected the financial condition of entities throughout the world, including certain of the Company’s customers, joint venture partners, financial lenders and suppliers, including shipyards from whom the Company has contracted to purchase vessels. Those entities that suffer a material adverse impact on their financial condition may be unable or unwilling to comply with their contractual commitments to OSG which, in turn, could have an adverse impact on OSG. The failure of entities to comply with contractual commitments could include the refusal or inability of customers to pay charter hire to OSG, shipyards’ failure to construct and deliver to OSG newbuilds or joint ventures’ or financial lenders’ inability or unwillingness to honor their commitments, such as to contribute funds to a joint venture with OSG or to lend funds to OSG. While OSG seeks to monitor the financial condition of such entities, the availability and accuracy of information about the financial condition of such entities may be limited and the actions that OSG may take to reduce possible losses resulting from the failure of such entities to comply with their contractual obligations may be restricted. See also under the heading “Company specific risk factors” below the risk factor concerning credit risks with counterparties. Terrorist attacks, piracy and international hostilities can affect the tanker industry, which could adversely affect OSG’s business Additional terrorist attacks like those in New York on September 11, 2001 and in London on July 7, 2005, piracy attacks against merchant ships, including oil tankers, particularly in the Gulf of Aden and off the East Coast of Africa, especially Somalia, the outbreak of war, or the existence of international hostilities could damage the world economy, adversely affect the availability of and demand for crude oil and petroleum products and adversely affect the Company’s ability to re-charter its vessels on the expiration or termination of the charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters. The Company conducts its operations internationally, and its business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changing economic, political and government conditions in the countries and regions where its vessels are employed. Moreover, OSG operates in a sector of the economy that is likely to be adversely impacted by the effects of political instability, terrorist or other attacks, war, international hostilities or piracy. 26 Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. The market value of vessels fluctuates significantly, which could adversely affect OSG’s liquidity, result in breaches of its financing agreements or otherwise adversely affect its financial condition The market value of vessels has fluctuated over time. The fluctuation in market value of vessels over time is based upon various factors, including: • age of the vessel; • general economic and market conditions affecting the tanker industry, including the availability of vessel financing; • number of vessels in the world fleet; • types and sizes of vessels available; • changes in trading patterns affecting demand for particular sizes and types of vessels; • cost of newbuildings; • prevailing level of charter rates; • competition from other shipping companies; • other modes of transportation; and • technological advances in vessel design and propulsion. Declining values of the Company’s vessels could adversely affect its liquidity by limiting its ability to raise cash by refinancing vessels. Declining vessel values could also result in a breach of loan covenants or trigger events of default under relevant financing agreements that require the Company to maintain certain loan-to-value ratios. In such instances, if OSG is unable or unwilling to pledge additional collateral to offset the decline in vessel values, its lenders could accelerate its debt and foreclose on its vessels pledged as collateral for the loans. Shipping is a business with inherent risks, and OSG’s insurance may not be adequate to cover its losses OSG’s vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as: • marine disasters; • bad weather; • mechanical failures; • human error; • war, terrorism and piracy; and • other unforeseen circumstances or events. In addition, transporting crude oil creates a risk of business interruptions due to political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities, labor strikes, port closings and boycotts. Any of these events may result in loss of revenues and increased costs. 2009 Annual Report 27 The Company carries insurance to protect against most of the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of its business. OSG currently maintains one billion dollars in coverage for each of its vessels for liability for spillage or leakage of oil or pollution. OSG also carries insurance covering lost revenue resulting from vessel off-hire due to vessel damage. Nonetheless, risks may arise against which the Company is not adequately insured. For example, a catastrophic spill could exceed OSG’s insurance coverage and have a material adverse effect on its operations. In addition, OSG may not be able to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future, and OSG cannot guarantee that any particular claim will be paid. In the past, new and stricter environmental regulations have led to higher costs for insurance covering environmental damage or pollution, and new regulations could lead to similar increases or even make this type of insurance unavailable. Furthermore, even if insurance coverage is adequate to cover the Company’s losses, OSG may not be able to timely obtain a replacement ship in the event of a loss. OSG may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on its own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the P & I Associations through which OSG obtains insurance coverage for tort liability. OSG’s payment of these calls could result in significant expenses which would reduce its profits or cause losses. Because OSG conducts its business on a worldwide basis, OSG faces a number of significant risks that could result in losses or higher costs The Company’s vessels operate all over the world, exposing it to many risks, including: • changing economic, political and social conditions in the countries where OSG does business or where its vessels are registered or flagged; • the imposition of increased environmental and safety regulations by international organizations, Classification Societies, flag states and port states; • the imposition of taxes by flag states, port states and jurisdictions in which OSG or its subsidiaries are incorporated or where its vessels operate; • currency fluctuations; • pandemics or epidemics which may result in a disruption of worldwide trade including quarantines of certain areas; • terrorism, piracy and war, including the possible outbreak of hostilities that could reduce or otherwise affect the movement of oil from the Middle East; and • expropriation of its vessels. As a result of these risks, OSG may incur losses or higher costs, including those incurred as a result of the impairment of its assets or a curtailment of its operations. Compliance with environmental laws or regulations, including those relating to the emission of greenhouse gases, may adversely affect OSG’s business The Company’s operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national and local environmental protection laws, regulations, treaties, conventions and standards in force in international waters, the jurisdictional waters of the countries in which OSG’s vessels operate, as well as the countries of its vessels’ registration. Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills and other pollution and to decrease emission of greenhouse gases, and OSG’s compliance with these requirements can be costly. These requirements can affect the resale value or useful lives of the Company’s vessels, require a reduction in carrying capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in, certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, OSG could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous substances from its vessels or otherwise in connection with its operations. OSG could also become subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to the release of or exposure to hazardous materials associated with its current or historic operations. Violations of or liabilities under environmental requirements also can result in substantial penalties, fines and other sanctions, including in certain instances, seizure or detention of the Company’s vessels. 28 Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. OSG could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, fines, penalties, third-party claims and natural resource damages, as the result of an oil spill or other liabilities under environmental laws. The Company is subject to the oversight of several government agencies, including the U.S. Coast Guard, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Maritime Administration of the U.S. Department of Transportation. OPA 90 affects all vessel owners shipping oil or hazardous material to, from or within the United States. OPA 90 allows for potentially unlimited liability without regard to fault for owners, operators and bareboat charterers of vessels for oil pollution in U.S. waters. Similarly, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, 1969, as amended, which has been adopted by most countries outside of the United States, imposes liability for oil pollution in international waters. OPA 90 expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries. Coastal states in the United States have enacted pollution prevention liability and response laws, many providing for unlimited liability. OPA 90 provides for the scheduled phase out of all non double hull vessels that carry oil in bulk in U.S. waters. IMO and the European Union also have adopted separate phase out schedules applicable to single hull vessels operating in international and EU waters. These regulations will reduce the demand for single hull vessels, force the remaining single hull vessels into less desirable trading routes, increase the number of ships trading in routes open to single hull vessels and could increase demands for further restrictions in the remaining jurisdictions that permit the operation of these vessels. As a result, single hull vessels are likely to be chartered less frequently and at lower rates. In addition, in complying with OPA, IMO regulations, EU directives and other existing laws and regulations and those that may be adopted, shipowners may incur significant additional costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. Government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become more strict in the future and require the Company to incur significant capital expenditures on its vessels to keep them in compliance, or even to scrap or sell certain vessels altogether. As a result of accidents such as the November 2002 oil spill from the Prestige, a 26 year old single hull tanker unrelated to the Company, OSG believes that regulation of the shipping industry will continue to become more stringent and more expensive for the Company and its competitors. In recent years, the IMO and EU have both accelerated their existing non double hull phase out schedules in response to highly publicized oil spills and other shipping incidents involving companies unrelated to OSG. Future accidents can be expected in the industry, and such accidents or other events could be expected to result in the adoption of even stricter laws and regulations, which could limit the Company’s operations or its ability to do business and which could have a material adverse effect on OSG’s business and financial results. Furthermore, OSG anticipates that the IMO, EU, U.S. or other countries where we operate might enact climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives that could restrict emissions of greenhouse gases. Such actions could result in significant financial and operational impacts on our business. See the discussion of “Environmental and Security Matters Relating to Bulk Shipping” above. The market value of OSG’s vessels, which in 2008 reached historically high levels, may be depressed at a time and in the event that it sells a vessel Vessel values have generally experienced high volatility and values in recent years have been at or near historically high levels. The fair market value of the Company’s vessels can be expected to fluctuate, depending on general economic and market conditions affecting the tanker industry and competition from other shipping companies, types and sizes of vessels and other modes of transportation. The global economic recession that commenced in 2008 has resulted in a decrease in vessel values. In addition, although OSG has a modern fleet, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. These factors will affect the value of the Company’s vessels at the time of any vessel sale. If for any reason, OSG sells a vessel at a time when prices have fallen, the sale may be at less than the vessel’s carrying amount on its financial statements, with the result that the Company would also incur a loss on the sale and a reduction in earnings and surplus. Company specific risk factors: The Company’s business would be adversely affected if it failed to comply with the Jones Act provisions on coastwise trade, or if these provisions were repealed and if changes in international trade agreements were to occur. The Company is subject to the Jones Act and other federal laws that restrict maritime transportation between points in the U.S. (known as marine cabotage services or coastwise trade) to vessels built and registered in the U.S. and owned and manned by U.S. citizens. The Company is responsible for monitoring the foreign ownership of its common stock and other interests to insure compliance with the Jones Act. If the Company does not comply with these restrictions, it would be prohibited from operating its vessels in U.S. coastwise trade, and under certain circumstances would be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of U.S. coastwise trading rights for the Company’s vessels, fines or forfeiture of the vessels. 2009 Annual Report 29 In order to ensure compliance with Jones Act citizenship requirements, and in accordance with the certificate of incorporation and by-laws of the Company, the Board of Directors of the Company adopted a requirement in July 1976 that at least 77% (the “Minimum Percentage”) of the Company’s common stock must be held by U.S. citizens. On April 16, 2008, the Company announced that U.S. ownership of our common stock at the close of business on April 15, 2008 had declined to the minimum percentage of 77%. While the percentage of U.S. citizenship ownership of the Company’s outstanding common stock fluctuates daily, the highest it has been since April 15, 2008 has been approximately 3% above the Minimum Percentage. Any purported transfer of common stock in violation of these ownership provisions will be ineffective to transfer the shares of common stock or any voting, dividend or other rights associated with them. The existence and enforcement of this U.S. citizen ownership requirement could have an adverse impact on the liquidity or market value of our common stock in the event that U.S. citizens were unable to transfer shares of our common stock to non-U.S. citizens. Furthermore, under certain circumstances this ownership requirement could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company. Additionally, the Jones Act restrictions on the provision of maritime cabotage services are subject to exceptions under certain international trade agreements, including the General Agreement on Trade in Services and the North American Free Trade Agreement. If maritime cabotage services were included in the General Agreement on Trade in Services, the North American Free Trade Agreement or other international trade agreements, or if the restrictions contained in the Jones Act were otherwise repealed or altered, the transportation of maritime cargo between U.S. ports could be opened to international-flag or international- manufactured vessels. On two occasions during 2005, the U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security, at the direction of the President of the U.S., issued limited waivers of the Jones Act for the transportation of petroleum and petroleum products as a result of the extraordinary circumstances created by Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita on Gulf Coast refineries and petroleum product pipelines. During the past several years, interest groups have lobbied Congress to repeal the Jones Act to facilitate international flag competition for trades and cargoes currently reserved for U.S. Flag vessels under the Jones Act and cargo preference laws. The Company believes that continued efforts will be made to modify or repeal the Jones Act and cargo preference laws currently benefiting U.S. Flag vessels. Because international vessels may have lower construction costs, wage rates and operating costs, this could significantly increase competition in the coastwise trade, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. OSG’s financial condition would be materially adversely affected if the shipping income of OSG’s foreign subsidiaries becomes subject to current taxation in the U.S. As a result of changes made by the 2004 Act, the Company does not report in taxable income on a current basis the undistributed shipping income earned by its international flag vessels, which in recent years represented substantially all of the Company’s pre-tax income. These changes in the 2004 Act were made to make U.S. controlled shipping companies competitive with foreign-controlled shipping companies, which are generally incorporated in jurisdictions in which they either do not pay income taxes or pay minimal income taxes. In his State of the Union address on January 27, 2010, President Obama stated that “it’s time to finally slash the tax breaks for companies that ship our jobs overseas and give those tax breaks for companies that create jobs in the United States of America”. An increasing number of Congressmen and Senators have announced support for ending such tax breaks. While the Company believes that the changes made in the 2004 Act with respect to foreign shipping income do not “ship jobs overseas,” and, in fact, have enabled the Company to expand its U.S. Flag fleet and create jobs in the U.S., Congress may decide to repeal the changes made in the 2004 Act with respect to taxation of foreign shipping income. Such repeal, either directly or indirectly by limiting or reducing benefits received under the 2004 Act, would have a materially adverse affect on the Company’s business and financial results. The Company’s substantial debt and charter in commitments could adversely affect its financial condition OSG has substantial debt and debt service requirements. At December 31, 2009, the Company’s consolidated total debt was $1.8 billion and its unused borrowing capacity under revolving credit facilities was $1.0 billion and its charter in commitments were $2.0 billion. The amount of the Company’s debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: • increase OSG’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit OSG’s ability to fund future capital expenditures, working capital and other general corporate requirements; • require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to make interest and principal payments on its debt; 30 Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. • limit OSG’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the shipping industry; • place OSG at a competitive disadvantage compared with competitors that have less debt or charter-in commitments including by causing OSG to have a lower credit rating; and • limit OSG’s ability to borrow additional funds, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity. When OSG’s credit facilities mature, it may not be able to refinance or replace them The global economic downturn that started in 2008 has adversely affected the availability and terms of debt and equity capital. When OSG’s indebtedness matures, the Company may need to refinance it and may not be able to do so on favorable terms or at all. If OSG is able to refinance maturing indebtedness, the terms of any refinancing or alternate credit arrangements may contain terms and covenants that restrict OSG’s financial and operating flexibility. The Company is highly dependent upon volatile spot market charter rates OSG depends on spot charters for a significant portion of its revenues. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, OSG derived approximately 49%, 65% and 60%, respectively, of its TCE revenues in the spot market. Although chartering a significant portion of OSG’s vessels on the spot market affords it greater opportunity to increase income from operations when rates rise, dependence on the spot market could result in earnings volatility. A significant decrease in OSG’s spot market TCE revenues could adversely affect its profit or result in cash losses. OSG may not be able to renew time charters when they expire or enter into new time charters for newbuilds There can be no assurance that any of the Company’s existing time charters will be renewed or that it will be successful in entering into new time charters on certain of the newbuilds that will be delivered to the Company or if renewed or entered into, that they will be at favorable rates. If, upon expiration of the existing time charters or delivery of newbuilds, OSG is unable to obtain time charters or voyage charters at desirable rates, the Company’s profitability may be adversely affected. Delays or cost overruns in building new vessels (including the failure to deliver new vessels), in the scheduled shipyard maintenance of the Company’s vessels, or in rebuilding or conversion of the Company’s vessels could adversely affect OSG’s results of operations Building new vessels, scheduled shipyard maintenance or rebuilding or conversion of vessels are subject to risks of delay (including the failure to deliver new vessels) or cost overruns caused by one or more of the following: • financial difficulties of the shipyard building or repairing a vessel, including bankruptcy; • unforeseen quality or engineering problems; • work stoppages; • weather interference; • unanticipated cost increases; • delays in receipt of necessary materials or equipment; ▪ changes to design specifications; and • inability to obtain the requisite permits, approvals or certifications from the U.S. Coast Guard or international foreign flag state authorities and the applicable classification society upon completion of work. 2009 Annual Report 31 Significant delays, cost overruns and failure to deliver new vessels could materially increase the Company’s expected contract commitments, which would have an adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, borrowing capacity and results of operations. Furthermore, delays would result in vessels being out-of-service for extended periods of time, and therefore not earning revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on OSG’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s remedies for losses resulting from shipyards’ failure to comply with their contractual commitments may be limited by the relevant contracts, including by liquidated damages provisions, such as those that limit the amount of monetary damages that may be claimed or that limit the Company’s right to cancellation of the building contract. While purchase price payments for newbuild vessels made prior to vessel delivery to international shipyards historically have been supported by guarantees from financial institutions, such as banks or insurance companies, such payments to U.S. shipyards historically have been supported by liens on the work in progress, including steel and equipment used for constructing the vessel, and not by guarantees from financial institutions. If an international shipyard fails to deliver a contracted newbuild vessel for which there is a guarantee, the Company may claim against the guarantee, substantially reducing the risk that the Company will suffer a loss of its investment. If a U.S. shipyard fails to deliver a contracted vessel, the Company’s investment may be supported only by the Company’s liens on the work in progress, which may result in a loss of part or all of the Company’s investment. Termination of the contracts with Bender Shipbuilding & Repair Co., Inc.’s (“Bender”) has, and may continue to, adversely affect OSG In March 2009, OSG and Bender terminated the construction agreements pursuant to which Bender was building six ATBs and two tugs for OSG. These agreements were terminated because of Bender’s lack of performance under such agreements and its lack of liquidity and poor financial condition. OSG is completing construction of two of the six ATBs at alternative yards and intends to finish building the two tugs. In June 2009, certain creditors of Bender filed an involuntary Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition against Bender claiming that Bender was insolvent and raising questions about Bender’s pre-petition transfer of assets, specifically transfers of the vessels to OSG in connection with the termination of contracts of OSG with Bender. Bender subsequently converted the involuntary proceeding into a voluntary Chapter 11 reorganization. As creditors of Bender have raised questions regarding OSG’s termination agreement transaction it is likely that the transaction will be reviewed by authorized parties-in-interest in the bankruptcy and possibly challenged. OSG believes that the termination transaction was valid and for fair consideration, and that it has strong and meritorious defenses in the event of a challenge but no assurance can be given that the bankruptcy court will agree. However, if the bankruptcy court were to sustain a challenge to the transaction, OSG could be required to pay Bender additional sums for the partially completed ATBs and tugs and related equipment that were transferred to OSG in connection with the termination agreement transaction. In such case, the payment of additional amounts would have an adverse effect on OSG. No assurance can be given that OSG’s positions with respect to the termination agreement transaction will be upheld. Termination or change in the nature of OSG’s relationship with any of the pools in which it participates could adversely affect its business All of the Company’s VLCCs participate in the Tankers International pool. At December 31, 2009, all of OSG’s Aframaxes participate in the Aframax International pool other than those that are engaged in lightering. Five of its crude Panamaxes and three of its Panamax Product Carriers participate directly in Panamax International. Participation in these pools enhances the financial performance of the Company’s vessels as a result of the higher vessel utilization. Any participant in any of these pools has the right to withdraw upon notice in accordance with the relevant pool agreement. The Company cannot predict whether the pools in which its vessels operate will continue to exist in the future. In addition, in 2008 the EU published guidelines on the application of the EU antitrust rules to traditional agreements for maritime services. While the Company believes that all the pools it participates in comply with EU rules, there has been limited administrative and judicial interpretation of the rules. Restrictive interpretations of the guidelines could adversely affect the ability to commercially market the respective types of vessels in pools. OSG may not be able to grow its fleet One part of OSG’s strategy is to continue to grow its fleet on an opportunistic basis. The Company’s ability to grow its fleets will depend upon a number of factors, many of which the Company cannot control. These factors include OSG’s ability to: • identify acquisition candidates and joint venture opportunities; • replace expiring charters-in at comparable rates; • identify suitable charter-in opportunities; 32 Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. • consummate acquisitions or joint ventures; • integrate any acquired vessels or businesses successfully with its existing operations; • hire and train qualified personnel; and • obtain required financing. OSG’s strategy of growing its business in part through acquisitions is capital intensive, time consuming and subject to a number of inherent risks Part of OSG’s business strategy is to opportunistically acquire complementary businesses or vessels such as the Company’s acquisitions of Stelmar Shipping Ltd. in January 2005 and Maritrans Inc. in November 2006. If the Company fails to develop and integrate any acquired businesses or vessels effectively, its earnings may be adversely affected. Further, if a portion of the purchase price of a business is attributable to goodwill and if the acquired business does not perform up to expectations at the time of the acquisition some or all of the goodwill may be written off, adversely affecting OSG’s earnings. In addition, the Company’s management team will need to devote substantial time and attention to the integration of the acquired businesses or vessels, which could distract them from their other duties and responsibilities. Operating costs and capital expenses will increase as the Company’s vessels age In general, capital expenditures and other costs necessary for maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increase as the age of the vessel increases. Accordingly, it is likely that the operating costs of OSG’s older vessels will increase. In addition, changes in governmental regulations and compliance with Classification Society standards may require OSG to make additional expenditures for new equipment. In order to add such equipment, OSG may be required to take its vessels out of service. There can be no assurance that market conditions will justify such expenditures or enable OSG to operate its older vessels profitably during the remainder of their economic lives. OSG’s purchase of second hand vessels carries risks associated with the quality of those vessels OSG’s expansion strategy includes the opportunistic acquisition of quality second hand vessels either directly or through corporate acquisitions. Second hand vessels typically do not carry warranties with respect to their condition, whereas warranties are generally available for newbuildings. While the Company generally inspects all second hand vessels prior to purchase, such inspections would normally not provide OSG with as much knowledge about vessel condition as the Company would possess if the vessels had been built for it. Certain potential customers will not use vessels older than a specified age, even if they have been recently rebuilt All of our existing ATBs were originally constructed more than 25 years ago. While all of these tug-barge units were rebuilt and double-hulled since 1998 and are “in-class,” meaning the vessel has been certified by a classification society as being built and maintained in accordance with the rules of that classification society and complies with the applicable rules and regulations of the vessel’s country of registry and applicable international conventions, some potential customers have stated that they will not charter vessels that are more than 20 years old, even if they have been rebuilt. Although there has to date been no material difference in time charter rates earned by a vessel of a specified age and a rebuilt vessel of the same age measured from the date of rebuilding, no assurance can be given that customers will continue to view rebuilt vessels as comparable to newbuild vessels. If more customers differentiate between rebuilt and newbuild vessels, time charter rates for our rebuilt ATBs will likely be adversely affected or they may not be employable. In the highly competitive international market, OSG may not be able to effectively compete for charters with companies with greater resources The Company’s vessels are employed in a highly competitive market. Competition arises from other vessel owners, including major oil companies, which may have substantially greater resources than OSG does. Competition for the transportation of crude oil and other petroleum products depends on price, location, size, age, condition, and the acceptability of the vessel operator to the charterer. The Company believes that because ownership of the world tanker fleet is highly fragmented, no single vessel owner is able to influence charter rates. To the extent OSG enters into new geographic regions or provides new services, it may not be able to compete profitably. New markets may involve competitive factors that differ from those of the Company’s current markets, and the competitors in those markets may have greater financial strength and capital resources than OSG does. 2009 Annual Report 33 Trading and complementary hedging activities in Forward Freight Agreements (“FFAs”) subject the Company to trading risks and the Company may suffer trading losses that reduce earnings Due to shipping market volatility, success in this industry requires constant adjustment of the balance between chartering out vessels for long periods of time and trading them on a spot basis. The Company seeks to manage and mitigate that risk through trading and complementary hedging activities in forward freight agreements, or FFAs. However, there is no assurance that the Company will be able at all times to successfully protect itself from volatility in the shipping market. The Company may not successfully mitigate its risks, leaving it exposed to unprofitable contracts and may suffer trading losses that reduce earnings and surplus. The Company is subject to certain credit risks with respect to its counterparties on contracts and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause the Company to suffer losses on such contracts, decreasing revenues and earnings The Company charters its vessels to other parties, who pay the Company a daily rate of hire. The Company also enters into COAs and Voyage Charters. As OSG increases the portion of its revenues from time charters, it increases its reliance on the ability of time charterers to pay charter hire, especially when spot market rates are less than previously agreed upon time charter rates. Historically, the Company has not experienced any material problem collecting charter hire but the global economic recession that commenced in 2008 may affect charterers more severely than the prior recessions that have occurred since the Company’s establishment more than 40 years ago. The Company also time charters or bareboat charters some of its vessels from other parties and its continued use and operation of such vessels depends on the vessel owners’ compliance with the terms of the time charter or bareboat charter. Additionally, the Company enters into derivative contracts (FFAs, bunker swaps, interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts). All of these contracts subject the Company to counterparty credit risk. As a result, the Company is subject to credit risks at various levels, including with charterers or cargo interests. If the counterparties fail to meet their obligations, the Company could suffer losses on such contracts which would decrease revenues and earnings. As the Company expands its business, it will need to improve its operations and financial systems, and recruit additional staff and crew; if it cannot improve these systems or recruit suitable employees, it may not effectively control its operations The Company’s current operating and financial systems may not be adequate as it implements its plan to expand, and its attempts to improve these systems may be ineffective. If the Company is unable to operate its financial and operations systems effectively or to recruit suitable employees for its vessels and offices as it expands its operations, it may be unable to effectively control and manage substantially larger operations. Although it is impossible to predict what errors might occur as the result of inadequate controls, it is the case that it is harder to oversee a sizable operation and, accordingly, more likely that errors will occur as operations grow and that additional management infrastructure and systems will be required to attempt to avoid such errors. OSG’s ability to obtain business from U.S. government agencies may be adversely affected by a determination by the Military Sealift Command (MSC) that OSG is not presently responsible for a single contract. OSG Product Tankers, LLC (“Product Tankers”), which is an indirect OSG subsidiary, participated in a Request for Proposals issued by the MSC, an agency of the United States Department of the Navy, to time charter two Jones Act compliant product carriers to the MSC. On June 25, 2007, the U.S. Maritime Administration of the Department of Transportation (“MarAd”), acting as lead federal agency under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (“FAR”), entered into a compliance agreement with OSG in lieu of suspending or debarring OSG from business with the U.S. Government based on the December 2006 guilty plea by OSG to violations related to the handling of bilge water and oily mixtures from the engine rooms on certain of its international flag vessels. Notwithstanding that compliance agreement, on July 6, 2007, the MSC found that Product Tankers was not “responsible,” pursuant to the FAR, for the particular procurement based on the same violations by OSG’s international flag vessels and, therefore, was ineligible to time charter the vessels to the MSC. MSC’s non-responsibility determination was upheld by the United States Court of Federal Claims, which ruled that the MSC was not bound by the MarAd’s decision as lead federal agency and that the MSC decision was not arbitrary and capricious. Although the MSC decision specifically addresses only the single contract, it may have an adverse effect on OSG’s ability to obtain business from the U.S. government. For the past three years, OSG did not do any material business with the MSC and, accordingly, did not generate any shipping revenues from the MSC. Historically, OSG has not sought to generate significant revenues from conducting business with the MSC or other agencies and departments within the U.S. government, nor does OSG intend to in the future. The only business OSG currently conducts with the U.S. government is the participation by two of its vessels in the Maritime Security Program (“MSP”), which is intended to support the operation of up to 60 U.S. Flag vessels in the foreign commerce of the U.S. to make available a fleet of privately owned vessels to the Department of Defense during times of war or national emergency. Payments are made under the MSP to vessel operators, including OSG, to help offset the high cost of employing a U.S. crew. MarAd, the agency which decided not to suspend or debar OSG, administers the MSP. To date, the MSC decision has not had an adverse effect on OSG’s ability to obtain business from commercial customers. 34 Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. Compliance with the environmental compliance plan agreed to with the U.S. Department of Justice imposes a more rigorous standard on OSG’s technical management of its vessels, which may adversely affect its business In connection with the comprehensive settlement of the investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice of the Company’s handling of waste oils and maintenance of books and records relating thereto, the Company agreed to implement and fund an environmental compliance plan, which contains detailed rules, programs and procedures that the Company must follow for a three year period from March 2007 to ensure full compliance with environmental laws and regulations. The Company has implemented these rules, programs and procedures and does not believe that they will adversely affect its ability to technically manage its vessels in a competitive manner. However, because the environmental compliance plan is a condition of the Company’s three year probation, violations of certain of these rules and procedures, while not necessarily a violation of environmental laws and regulations, could result in sanctions and have an adverse affect on the Company’s business. OSG’s vessels call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. government, which could negatively affect the trading price of the Company’s common stock From time to time, vessels in OSG’s fleet call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism, such as Iran. Although these sanctions and embargoes do not prevent OSG’s vessels from making calls to ports in these countries, potential investors could view such port calls negatively, which could adversely affect the Company’s reputation and the market for its common stock. OSG depends on its key personnel and may have difficulty attracting and retaining skilled employees OSG’s success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of its key personnel. The loss of the services of any of the Company’s key personnel or its inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on OSG’s business, financial condition and operating results. The Company may face unexpected drydock costs for its vessels Vessels must be drydocked periodically. The cost of repairs and renewals required at each drydock are difficult to predict with certainty and can be substantial. The Company’s insurance does not cover these costs. In addition, vessels may have to be drydocked in the event of accidents or other unforeseen damage. OSG’s insurance may not cover all of these costs. Large drydocking expenses could significantly decrease the Company’s profits. Maritime claimants could arrest OSG’s vessels, which could interrupt its cash flow Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of the Company’s vessels could interrupt OSG’s cash flow and require it to pay a significant amount of money to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel that is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in the Company’s fleet for claims relating to another vessel in its fleet. 2009 Annual Report 35 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 