ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important risk factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements made in this report or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. If any of the circumstances or events described below actually arise or occur, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Actual dollar amounts are used in this Item 1 A. “Risk Factors” section. Risks Related to Our Industry The highly cyclical nature of the industry may lead to volatile changes in charter rates and vessel values, which could adversely affect the Company’s earnings and available cash. The tanker industry is both cyclical and volatile in terms of charter rates and profitability. Fluctuations in charter rates and vessel values result from changes in supply and demand both for tanker capacity and for oil and oil products. Factors affecting these changes in supply and demand are generally outside of the Company’s control. The nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable and could adversely affect the values of the Company’s vessels or result in significant fluctuations in the amount of charter revenues the Company earns, which could result in significant volatility in OSG’s quarterly results and cash flows. Factors influencing the demand for tanker capacity include: · supply and demand for, and availability of, energy resources such as oil, oil products and natural gas, which affect customers’ need for vessel capacity; · global and regional economic and political conditions, including armed conflicts, terrorist activities and strikes, that among other things could impact the supply of oil, as well as trading patterns and the demand for various vessel types; · regional availability of refining capacity and inventories; · changes in the production levels of crude oil (including in particular production by OPEC, the United States and other key producers); · developments in international trade generally; · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances that cargoes are transported, changes in the price of crude oil and changes to the West Texas Intermediate and Brent Crude Oil pricing benchmarks; · environmental and other legal and regulatory developments and concerns; · construction or expansion of new or existing pipelines or railways; · weather and natural disasters; · competition from alternative sources of energy; and · international sanctions, embargoes, import and export restrictions or nationalizations and wars. Factors influencing the supply of vessel capacity include: · the number of newbuilding deliveries; · the scrapping rate of older vessels; · the number of vessels being used for storage or as FSO service vessels; · the conversion of vessels from transporting oil and oil products to carrying dry bulk cargo or vice versa; 18Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. · the number of vessels that are removed from service; · availability and pricing of other energy sources such as natural gas for which tankers can be used or to which construction capacity may be dedicated; · port or canal congestion; and · environmental and maritime regulations. Many of the factors that influence the demand for tanker capacity will also, in the longer term, effectively influence the supply of tanker capacity, since decisions to build new capacity, invest in capital repairs, or to retain in service older obsolescent capacity are influenced by the general state of the marine transportation industry from time to time. The market value of vessels fluctuates significantly, which could adversely affect OSG’s liquidity or otherwise adversely affect its financial condition. The market value of vessels has fluctuated over time. The fluctuation in market value of vessels over time is based upon various factors, including: · age of the vessel; · general economic and market conditions affecting the tanker industry, including the availability of vessel financing; · number of vessels in the world fleet (or, in the case of the U.S. domestic market, the Jones Act fleet); · types and sizes of vessels available; · changes in trading patterns affecting demand for particular sizes and types of vessels; · cost of newbuildings; · prevailing level of charter rates; · competition from other shipping companies and from other modes of transportation; and · technological advances in vessel design and propulsion. Worldwide vessel market values have, on average, generally declined over the past several years. In addition, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. These factors will affect the value of the Company’s vessels at the time of any vessel sale. If OSG sells a vessel at a sale price that is less than the vessel’s carrying amount on the Company’s financial statements, OSG will incur a loss on the sale and a reduction in earnings and surplus. In addition, declining values of the Company’s vessels could adversely affect the Company’s liquidity by limiting its ability to raise cash by refinancing vessels. Declines in charter rates and other market deterioration could cause OSG to incur impairment charges. The Company evaluates the carrying amounts of its vessels to determine if events have occurred that would require an impairment of those vessels’ carrying amounts. The recoverable amount of vessels is reviewed to determine whether there have been any events or changes in circumstances indicating that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recovered. This review for potential impairment indicators and projection of future cash flows related to the vessels is complex and requires the Company to make various estimates, including future freight rates, earnings from the vessels and discount rates. All of these items have historically been volatile. The Company evaluates the recoverable amount as the higher of either fair value less costs to sell or value in use. If the recoverable amount is less than the vessel’s carrying amount of the vessel, the vessel is deemed impaired. The carrying values of the Company’s vessels may differ significantly from their fair market value. 19Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. An increase in the supply of vessels without a commensurate increase in demand for such vessels could cause charter rates to decline, which could adversely affect OSG’s revenues, profitability and cash flows, as well as the value of its vessels. OSG depends on short term duration or “spot”, charters, for a significant portion of its revenues, which exposes OSG to fluctuations in market conditions. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, OSG derived approximately 54%, 49% and 52%, respectively, of its TCE revenues in the spot market. The marine transportation industry has historically been highly cyclical, as the profitability and asset values of companies in the industry have fluctuated based on changes in the supply and demand of vessels. If the number of new ships of a particular class delivered exceeds the number of vessels of that class being scrapped, available capacity in that class will increase. The newbuilding order book (representing vessels in various stages of planning or construction) equaled 19%, 13% and 12% of the existing world tanker fleet as of December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. In the U.S. domestic market, as of December 31, 2015, there were firm orders to build 13 tankers and seven ATBs, representing approximately 25% of the existing Jones Act fleet of Product Carriers and large ATBs (defined as vessels having carrying capacities of between 0.14 million barrels and 0.35 million barrels, which excludes numerous tank barges below 0.14 million barrel capacity and 11 much larger tankers dedicated exclusively to the Alaskan crude oil trade). Given the smaller number of tankers operating in the U.S. domestic market, even a limited increase in capacity supply may negatively impact the market. Vessel supply is also affected by the number of vessels being used for floating storage, since vessels used for storage are not available to transport crude oil or petroleum products. Utilization of vessels for storage is affected by expectations of changes in the price of oil and petroleum products, with utilization generally increasing if prices are expected to increase more than storage costs and generally decreasing if they are not. A reduction in vessel utilization for storage will generally increase vessel supply. In 2010, for example, 81 vessels were released from storage and reentered the trading fleet. Since the 2010 release until near the end of 2014, storage on vessels at sea has been low, in part because then-current prices of crude oil have generally exceeded the future prices, a condition that allows companies to replace inventories at lower prices, which encourages the drawdown of commercial inventories. Supply has exceeded demand during the past five years, resulting in lower charter rates across the International Flag fleet. Since December 2014, current prices of crude oil have generally been below future prices, resulting in an increase in vessels used for storage. However, the duration of this trend of higher future prices cannot be predicted. If this trend ceases or reverses, the charter rates for the Company’s International Flag vessels could decrease to levels experienced from 2010-2014, which were well below historical averages. Any such development would have a material adverse effect on OSG’s revenues, profitability and cash flows if sustained over a long period of time. Shipping is a business with inherent risks, and OSG’s insurance may not be adequate to cover its losses. OSG’s vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events including, but not limited to: · marine disasters; · bad weather; · mechanical failures; · human error; · war, terrorism and piracy; · grounding, fire, explosions and collisions; and · other unforeseen circumstances or events. In addition, transporting crude oil creates a risk of business interruptions due to political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities, labor strikes, port closings and boycotts. These hazards may result in death or injury to persons; loss of revenues or property; the payment of ransoms; environmental damage; higher insurance rates; damage to OSG’s customer relationships; and market disruptions, delay or rerouting, which may also subject OSG to litigation. In addition, the operation of tankers has unique operational risks associated with the transportation of oil. An oil spill may cause significant environmental damage and the associated costs could exceed the insurance coverage available to the Company. Compared to other types of vessels, tankers are also exposed to a higher risk of damage and loss by fire, whether ignited by a terrorist attack, collision, or other cause, due to the high flammability and high volume of the oil transported in tankers. Furthermore, any such incident could seriously damage OSG’s reputation and cause OSG either to lose business or to be less likely to enter into new business (either because of customer concerns or changes in customer vetting processes). Any of these events could result in loss of revenues, decreased cash flows and increased costs. 20Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. While the Company carries insurance to protect against certain risks involved in the conduct of its business, risks may arise against which the Company is not adequately insured. For example, a catastrophic spill could exceed OSG’s $1 billion per vessel insurance coverage and have a material adverse effect on its operations. In addition, OSG may not be able to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future, and OSG cannot guarantee that any particular claim will be paid by its insurers. In the past, new and stricter environmental regulations have led to higher costs for insurance covering environmental damage or pollution, and new regulations could lead to similar increases or even make this type of insurance unavailable. Furthermore, even if insurance coverage is adequate to cover the Company’s losses, OSG may not be able to timely obtain a replacement ship in the event of a loss. OSG may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on its own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which OSG obtains insurance coverage for tort liability. OSG’s payment of these calls could result in significant expenses which would reduce its profits and cash flows or cause losses. Constraints on capital availability have adversely affected the tanker industry and OSG’s business. Constraints on capital that have occurred during recent years have adversely affected the financial condition of certain of the Company’s customers, joint venture partners, financial lenders and suppliers. Entities that suffer a material adverse impact on their financial condition may be unable or unwilling to comply with their contractual commitments to OSG including the refusal or inability of customers to pay charter hire to OSG or the inability or unwillingness of joint venture partners or financial lenders to honor their commitments to contribute funds to a joint venture or lend funds. While OSG seeks to monitor the financial condition of its customers, joint venture partners, financial lenders and suppliers, the availability and accuracy of information about the financial condition of such entities and the actions that OSG may take to reduce possible losses resulting from the failure of such entities to comply with their contractual obligations may be limited. Any such failure could have a material adverse effect on OSG’s revenues, profitability and cash flows. In addition, adverse financial conditions may inhibit these entities from entering into new commitments with OSG, which could also have a material adverse effect on OSG’s revenues, profitability and cash flows. The Company also faces other potential constraints on capital relating to counterparty credit risk and constraints on OSG’s ability to borrow funds. See also “Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Company___The Company is subject to credit risks with respect to its counterparties on contracts and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause the Company to suffer losses on such contracts, decreasing revenues and earnings” and “___ Risks Related to Our Company___OSG has incurred significant indebtedness which could affect its ability to finance its operations, pursue desirable business opportunities and successfully run its business in the future, all of which could affect OSG’s ability to fulfill its obligations under that indebtedness.” The current state of the global financial markets and current economic conditions may adversely impact the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms and otherwise negatively impact the Company’s business. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, volatile. In recent years, businesses in the global economy have faced tightening credit, weakening demand for goods and services, deteriorating international liquidity conditions, volatile interest rates, and declining markets. There has been a general decline in the willingness of banks and other financial institutions to extend credit, particularly in the shipping industry, due to the historically volatile asset values of vessels. As the shipping industry is highly dependent on the availability of credit to finance and expand operations, it has been negatively affected by this decline. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets has increased as many lenders have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at all or on terms similar to current debt and reduced, and in some cases ceased to provide, funding to borrowers. Due to these factors, additional financing may not be available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms or at all. If additional financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, the Company may be unable to meet its obligations as they come due or the Company may be unable to execute its business strategy, complete additional vessel acquisitions, or otherwise take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. OSG conducts its operations internationally, which subjects the Company to changing economic, political and governmental conditions abroad that may adversely affect its business. The Company conducts its operations internationally, and its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected by changing economic, political and government conditions in the countries and regions where its vessels are employed, including: · regional or local economic downturns; · labor rules and collective bargaining arrangements in foreign jurisdictions; · changes in governmental policy or regulation; · restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of countries in which OSG or its customers operate; 21Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. · difficulty in staffing and managing (including ensuring compliance with internal policies and controls) geographically widespread operations; · the effect of applicable tax structures, including potential liabilities relating to domestic and foreign withholding taxes and potential negative consequences from changes in tax laws; · trade relations with foreign countries in which OSG’s customers and suppliers have operations, including protectionist measures such as tariffs and import or export licensing requirements; · general economic and political conditions, which may interfere with, among other things, the Company’s supply chain, its customers and all of OSG’s activities in a particular location; · difficulty in the enforcement of contractual obligations in foreign jurisdictions and the collection of accounts receivable from foreign accounts; · different regulatory regimes in the various countries in which OSG operates; · inadequate intellectual property protection in foreign countries; · the difficulties and increased expenses in complying with multiple and potentially conflicting domestic and foreign laws, regulations, security, product approvals and trade standards, anti-bribery laws, government sanctions and restrictions on doing business with certain nations or specially designated nationals; · import and export duties and quotas; · demands for improper payments from port officials or other government officials; · domestic and foreign customs, tariffs and taxes; · foreign currency exchange controls, restrictions and fluctuations, which could result in reduced revenue and increased operating expense; · international incidents; · transportation delays or interruptions; · local conflicts, acts of war, terrorist attacks or military conflicts; · changes in oil prices or disruptions in oil supplies that could substantially affect global trade, the Company’s customers’ operations and the Company’s business; · the imposition of taxes by flag states, port states and jurisdictions in which OSG or its subsidiaries are incorporated or where its vessels operate; and · expropriation of OSG’s vessels. The occurrence of such events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. In addition, OSG’s international operations subject it to certain risks regarding taxation of foreign subsidiary income, see “____Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters ___OSG’s financial condition would be materially adversely affected if the shipping income of OSG’s foreign subsidiaries becomes subject to current taxation in the United States.” OSG must comply with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials, anti-money laundering laws; and anti-competition regulations. Moreover, the shipping industry is generally considered to present elevated risks in these areas. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, restrictions on the Company’s business operations and on the Company’s ability to transport cargo to one or more countries, and could also materially affect the Company’s brand, ability to attract and retain employees, international operations, business and operating results. Although OSG has policies and procedures designed to achieve compliance with these laws and regulations, OSG cannot be certain that its employees, contractors, joint venture partners or agents will not violate these policies and procedures. OSG’s operations may also subject its employees and agents to extortion attempts. 22Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. Changes in fuel prices may adversely affect profits. Fuel is a significant, if not the largest, expense in the Company’s shipping operations when vessels are under voyage charter. Accordingly, an increase in the price of fuel may adversely affect the Company’s profitability if these increases cannot be passed onto customers. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside the Company’s control, including geopolitical developments; supply and demand for oil and gas; actions by OPEC, and other oil and gas producers; war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions; regional production patterns; and environmental concerns. Fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which could reduce the profitability and competitiveness of the Company’s business compared to other forms of transportation. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels could adversely affect the Company’s business. The frequency of pirate attacks on seagoing vessels remains high, particularly in the western part of the Indian Ocean, off the west coast of Africa and in the South China Sea. If piracy attacks result in regions in which the Company’s vessels are deployed being characterized by insurers as “war risk” zones, as the Gulf of Aden has been, or Joint War Committee “war and strikes” listed areas, premiums payable for insurance coverage could increase significantly, and such insurance coverage may become difficult to obtain. Crew costs could also increase in such circumstances due to risks of piracy attacks. In addition, while OSG believes the charterer remains liable for charter payments when a vessel is seized by pirates, the charterer may dispute this and withhold charter hire until the vessel is released. A charterer may also claim that a vessel seized by pirates was not “on-hire” for a certain number of days and it is therefore entitled to cancel the charter party, a claim the Company would dispute. The Company may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against the Company’s vessels, or an increase in the cost (or unavailability) of insurance for those vessels, could have a material adverse impact on OSG’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Such attacks may also impact the Company’s customers, which could impair their ability to make payments to the Company under its charters. Terrorist attacks and international hostilities and instability can affect the tanker industry, which could adversely affect OSG’s business. Terrorist attacks, the outbreak of war, or the existence of international hostilities could damage the world economy, adversely affect the availability of and demand for crude oil and petroleum products and adversely affect both the Company’s ability to charter its vessels and the charter rates payable under any such charters. In addition, OSG operates in a sector of the economy that is likely to be adversely impacted by the effects of political instability, terrorist or other attacks, war or international hostilities. In the past, political instability has also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. These factors could also increase the costs to the Company of conducting its business, particularly crew, insurance and security costs, and prevent or restrict the Company from obtaining insurance coverage, all of which could have a material adverse effect on OSG’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Public health threats could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations and financial results. Public health threats and other highly communicable diseases, outbreaks of which have already occurred in various parts of the world near where OSG operates, could adversely impact the Company’s operations, the operations of the Company’s customers and the global economy, including the worldwide demand for crude oil and the level of demand for OSG’s services. Any quarantine of personnel, restrictions on travel to or from countries in which OSG operates, or inability to access certain areas could adversely affect the Company’s operations. Travel restrictions, operational problems or large-scale social unrest in any part of the world in which OSG operates, or any reduction in the demand for tanker services caused by public health threats in the future, may impact OSG’s operations and adversely affect the Company’s financial results. Risks Related to Our Company OSG has incurred significant indebtedness which could affect its ability to finance its operations, pursue desirable business opportunities and successfully run its business in the future, all of which could affect OSG’s ability to fulfill its obligations under that indebtedness. 23Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. As of December 31, 2015, OSG had $1.33 billion of outstanding indebtedness. OSG’s substantial indebtedness and interest expense could have important consequences, including: · limiting OSG’s ability to use a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations in other areas of its business, including for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities, because OSG must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service its debt; · to the extent OSG’s future cash flows are insufficient, requiring the Company to seek to incur additional indebtedness in order to make planned capital expenditures and other expenses or investments; · limiting OSG’s ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and other expenses or investments planned by the Company; · limiting the Company’s flexibility and ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation, and OSG’s business and industry; · limiting OSG’s ability to satisfy its obligations under its indebtedness; · increasing OSG’s vulnerability to a downturn in its business and to adverse economic and industry conditions generally; · placing OSG at a competitive disadvantage as compared to its less-leveraged competitors; · potentially limiting the Company’s ability to enter certain Commercial Pools; · limiting the Company’s ability, or increasing the costs, to refinance indebtedness; and · limiting the Company’s ability to enter into hedging transactions by reducing the number of counterparties with whom OSG can enter into such transactions as well as the volume of those transactions. OSG’s ability to continue to fund its obligations and to reduce debt may be affected by general economic, financial market, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, among other things. An inability to fund the Company’s debt requirements or reduce debt could have a material adverse effect on OSG’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, the actual or perceived credit quality of the Company’s charterers (as well as any defaults by them) could materially affect the Company’s ability to obtain the additional capital resources that it will require to purchase additional vessels or significantly increase the costs of obtaining such capital. The Company’s inability to obtain additional financing at a higher-than-anticipated cost, or at all, could materially affect the Company’s results of operation and its ability to implement its business strategy. The Company may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of its indebtedness, and could in the future breach covenants in its credit facilities and term loans. The Company’s earnings, cash flow and the market value of its vessels vary significantly over time due to the cyclical nature of the tanker industry, as well as general economic and market conditions affecting the industry. As a result, the amount of debt that OSG can manage in some periods may not be appropriate in other periods and its ability to meet the financial covenants to which it is subject or may be subject in the future may vary. Additionally, future cash flow may be insufficient to meet the Company’s debt obligations and commitments. Any insufficiency could negatively impact OSG’s business. Each Exit Financing Facility contains certain restrictions relating to new borrowings and, the movement of funds between the borrowers thereunder and OSG, as set forth in the respective loan agreements. In addition, the OIN Facilities have a covenant to maintain the aggregate Fair Market Value of the Collateral Vessels (each as defined in that loan agreement) at greater than or equal to $500.0 million at the end of the each fiscal quarter. None of the other Exit Financing Facilities have financial covenants. Furthermore, drawdowns under the OBS ABL Facility borrowings are limited based upon the available borrowing base, as defined in that loan agreement and, if availability falls below a certain amount for a specified period of time, the administrative agent could exercise cash dominion rights permitting it to invoke control rights over certain of our accounts. While the Company was in compliance with these requirements as of December 31, 2015, a decrease in vessel values or a failure to meet this ratio could cause the Company to breach certain covenants in its existing credit facilities and term loans, or in future financing agreements that the Company may enter into from time to time. If the Company breaches such covenants and is unable to remedy the relevant breach or obtain a waiver, the Company’s lenders could accelerate its debt and foreclose on the Company’s owned vessels. 24Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. A range of economic, competitive, financial, business, industry and other factors will affect future financial performance, and, accordingly, the Company’s ability to generate cash flow from operations and to pay debt and to meet the financial covenants under the OIN Facilities. Many of these factors, such as charter rates, economic and financial conditions in the tanker industry and the global economy or competitive initiatives of competitors, are beyond the Company’s control. If OSG does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy its debt obligations, it may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as: · refinancing or restructuring its debt; · selling tankers or other assets; · reducing or delaying investments and capital expenditures; or · seeking to raise additional capital. Undertaking alternative financing plans, if necessary, might not allow OSG to meet its debt obligations. The Company’s ability to restructure or refinance its debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets, its access to such markets and its financial condition at that time. Any refinancing of debt could be at higher interest rates and might require the Company to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict OSG’s business operations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict OSG from adopting some of certain alternatives. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit OSG to meet its scheduled debt service obligations. The Company’s inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy its debt obligations, to meet the covenants of its credit agreements and term loans and/or to obtain alternative financing in such circumstances, could materially and adversely affect OSG’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company will be required to make additional capital expenditures to expand the number of vessels in its fleet and to maintain all of its vessels, which depend on additional financing. The Company completed the construction of eight International Flag vessels, one U.S. Flag ATB and two U.S. Flag tug boats during the five years ended December 31, 2015. The Company’s business strategy is based in part upon the expansion of its fleet through the purchase of additional vessels at attractive points. If OSG is unable to fulfill its obligations under any memorandum of agreement or newbuilding construction contract for future vessel acquisitions, the sellers of such vessels may be permitted to terminate such contracts and the Company may be required to forfeit all or a portion of the down payments it made under such contracts and it may also be sued for any outstanding balance. In addition, as a newbuilding vessel must be drydocked within five years of its delivery from a shipyard, with survey cycles of no more than 60 months for the first three surveys, and 30 months thereafter, not including any unexpected repairs, the Company will incur significant maintenance costs for its existing and any newly-acquired vessels. As a result, if the Company does not utilize its vessels as planned, these maintenance costs could have material adverse effects on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company depends on third party service providers for technical and commercial management of its International Flag fleet. The Company currently outsources to third party service providers certain management services of its International Flag fleet, including technical management, certain aspects of commercial management and crew management. In particular, the Company has entered into ship management agreements with V.Ships that assign technical management responsibilities to V.Ships for each vessel in the Company’s owned or bareboat chartered-in International Flag conventional tanker fleet (collectively, the “Ship Management Agreements”). The Company has also transferred commercial management of its International Flag conventional tanker fleet to certain other third party service providers, principally Commercial Pools. In such outsourcing arrangements, the Company has transferred direct control over technical and commercial management of the relevant vessels, while maintaining significant oversight and audit rights, and must rely on third party service providers to, among other things: · comply with contractual commitments to the Company, including with respect to safety, quality and environmental compliance of the operations of the Company’s vessels; · comply with requirements imposed by the U.S. government (i) restricting calls on ports located in countries that are subject to sanctions and embargoes and (ii) prohibiting bribery and other corrupt practices; · respond to changes in customer demands for the Company’s vessels; 25Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. · obtain supplies and materials necessary for the operation and maintenance of the Company’s vessels; and · mitigate the impact of labor shortages and/or disruptions relating to crews on the Company’s vessels. The failure of third-party service providers to meet such commitments could lead to legal liability or other damages to the Company. The third-party service providers the Company has selected may not provide a standard of service comparable to that the Company provided for such vessels prior to any outsourcing. The Company relies on its third-party service providers to comply with applicable law, and a failure by such providers to comply with such laws may subject the Company to liability or damage its reputation even if the Company did not engage in the conduct itself. Furthermore, damage to any such third party’s reputation, relationships or business may reflect on the Company directly or indirectly, and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reputation and business. V.Ships has the right to terminate the Ship Management Agreements at any time with 90 days’ notice. If V.Ships exercises that right, the Company will be required either to enter into substitute agreements with other third parties or to assume those management duties. The Company may not succeed in negotiating and entering into such agreements with other third parties and, even if it does so, the terms and conditions of such agreements may be less favorable to the Company. Furthermore, if the Company is required to dedicate internal resources to managing the International Flag conventional tanker fleet (including, but not limited to, hiring additional qualified personnel or diverting existing resources), that could result in increased costs and reduced efficiency and profitability. Any such changes could disrupt the Company’s business and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The contribution of the Company’s joint ventures to its profits and losses may fluctuate, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. The Company currently owns an interest in six of its vessels through two joint ventures, one in which the Company has a 50% ownership interest and the second in which the Company has a 49.9% ownership interest, together with other third-party vessel owners and operators in the Company’s industry. See Item 1, “Business ___ Fleet Operations.” The Company’s ownership in these joint ventures is accounted for using the equity method, which means that the Company’s allocation of profits and losses of the applicable joint venture is included in its consolidated financial statements. The contribution of the Company’s joint ventures to the Company’s profits and losses may fluctuate, including the distributions that it may receive from such entities, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A joint venture involves certain risks such as: · OSG may not have voting control over the joint venture; · OSG may not be able to maintain good relationships with its joint venture partner; · The joint venture partner at any time may have economic or business interests that are inconsistent with OSG’s and may seek concessions from OSG; · The joint venture partner may fail to fund its share of capital for operations or to fulfill its other commitments, including providing accurate and timely accounting and financial information to OSG; · The joint venture may experience operating difficulties and financial losses, which may lead to asset write-downs or impairment charges that could negatively impact the operating results of the joint venture and OSG; · The joint venture or venture partner could lose key personnel; and · The joint venture partner could become bankrupt requiring OSG to assume all risks and capital requirements related to the joint venture project, and the related bankruptcy proceedings could have an adverse impact on the operation of the partnership or joint venture. In addition, the charters under which OSG’s two FSO joint venture vessels currently operate expire in 2017 and may not be renewed or may not be renewed at comparable rates. The carrying amount of the Company’s investment in and advances to the FSO joint venture was $269,727 as of December 31, 2015. If events relating to any of these risks were to come to pass, that could adversely affect the Company’s participation in the relevant joint venture, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 26Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. OSG’s business depends on Voyage charters, and any future decrease in spot charter rates could adversely affect its earnings. Voyage Charters, including vessels operating in Commercial Pools that predominantly operate in the spot market, constituted 54% of OSG’s aggregate TCE revenues in 2015, 49% in 2014 and 52% in 2013. Accordingly, OSG’s shipping revenues are significantly affected by prevailing spot rates for Voyage Charters in the markets in which the Company’s vessels operate. The spot charter market may fluctuate significantly from time to time based upon tanker and oil supply and demand. For example, over the past five years, VLCC spot market rates (expressed as a time charter equivalent) have ranged from a high of $115,780 per day to negative values, and in December 2015 were $101,923 per day on the benchmark route between the Middle East Gulf and Japan. The successful operation of OSG’s vessels in the competitive spot charter market depends on, among other things, obtaining profitable spot charters and minimizing, to the extent possible, time spent waiting for charters and time spent traveling unladen to pick up cargo. The spot market is very volatile, and, in the past, there have been periods when spot charter rates have declined below the operating cost of vessels. If spot charter rates decline in the future, then OSG may be unable to operate its vessels trading in the spot market profitably, or meet its other obligations, including payments on indebtedness. Furthermore, as charter rates for spot charters are fixed for a single voyage, which may last up to several weeks during periods in which spot charter rates are rising or falling, OSG will generally experience delays in realizing the benefits from, or experiencing the detriments of those changes. See also Item 1, “Business-Operations-Charter Types.” OSG may not be able to renew Time Charters when they expire or enter into new Time Charters. OSG’s ability to renew expiring contracts or obtain new charters will depend on the prevailing market conditions at the time of renewal. As of December 31, 2015, OSG employed 28 vessels on Time Charters, with 11 of those charters expiring in 2016, 10 expiring in 2017, five expiring in 2018, one expiring in 2020 and one expiring in 2025. The Company’s existing Time Charters may not be renewed at comparable rates or if renewed or entered into, those new contracts may be at less favorable rates. In addition, there may be a gap in employment of vessels between current charters and subsequent charters. If at a time when OSG is seeking to arrange new charters for its vessels, market participants expect that less capacity will be necessary in the future (for example, if it is expected that oil and natural gas prices will decrease in the future, which could suggest that future oil and gas production levels will decline from then-current levels), OSG may not be able to obtain charters at attractive rates or at all. If, upon expiration of the existing Time Charter, OSG is unable to obtain Time Charters or Voyage Charters at desirable rates, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. Termination of, or a change in the nature of, OSG’s relationship with any of the Commercial Pools in which it participates could adversely affect its business. As of December 31, 2015, six of the Company’s eight VLCCs participate in the TI pool; all seven Aframaxes participate in the SIGMA pool; four of the Company’s eight crude Panamaxes and one of its four Panamax Product Carriers participate directly in the PI pool; its only LR2 participates in the Navig8 pool; 14 of its MRs participate in the CPTA pool; and five of its MRs participate in the HDT pool (an aggregate of 19 MRs out of a total of 20). OSG’s participation in these pools is intended to enhance the financial performance of the Company’s vessels through higher vessel utilization. Any participant in any of these pools has the right to withdraw upon notice in accordance with the relevant pool agreement. Changes in the management of, and the terms of, these pools, decreases in the number of vessels participating in these pools, or the termination of these pools, could result in increased costs and reduced efficiency and profitability for the Company. In addition, in recent years the EU has published guidelines on the application of the EU antitrust rules to traditional agreements for maritime services such as Commercial Pools. While the Company believes that all the Commercial Pools it participates in comply with EU rules, there has been limited administrative and judicial interpretation of the rules. Restrictive interpretations of the guidelines could adversely affect the ability to commercially market the respective types of vessels in Commercial Pools. In the highly competitive international market, OSG may not be able to compete effectively for charters. The Company’s vessels are employed in a highly competitive market. Competition arises from other vessel owners, including major oil companies, which may have substantially greater resources than OSG does. Competition for the transportation of crude oil and other petroleum products depends on price, location, size, age, condition, and the acceptability of the vessel operator to the charterer. The Company believes that because ownership of the world tanker fleet is highly fragmented, no single vessel owner is able to influence charter rates. To the extent OSG enters into new geographic regions or provides new services, it may not be able to compete profitably. New markets may involve competitive factors that differ from those of the Company’s current markets, and the competitors in those markets may have greater financial strength and capital resources than OSG does. OSG may not realize the benefits it expects from past acquisitions or acquisitions or other strategic transactions it may make in the future. OSG’s business strategy includes ongoing efforts to engage in material acquisitions of ownership interests in entities in the tanker industry and of individual tankers. The success of OSG’s acquisitions will depend upon a number of factors, some of which may not be within its control. These factors include OSG’s ability to: 27Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. · identify suitable tankers and/or shipping companies for acquisitions at attractive prices, which may not be possible if asset prices rise too quickly; · obtain financing; · identify businesses engaged in managing, operating or owning tankers for acquisitions or joint ventures; · integrate any acquired tankers or businesses successfully with the OSG’s then-existing operations; and · enhance OSG’s customer base; OSG intends to finance these acquisitions by using available cash from operations and through incurrence of debt or bridge financing, either of which may increase its leverage ratios, or by issuing equity, which may have a dilutive impact on its existing shareholders. At any given time OSG may be engaged in a number of discussions that may result in one or more acquisitions, some of which may be material to OSG as a whole. These opportunities require confidentiality and may involve negotiations that require quick responses by OSG. Although there can be no certainty that any of these discussions will result in definitive agreements or the completion of any transactions, the announcement of any such transaction may lead to increased volatility in the trading price of OSG’s securities. In addition, the Company is currently considering various strategic alternatives that may result in a separation of its U.S. Flag and international businesses. The Company’s Board of Directors and management are reviewing various complex factors in connection with that process, and no assurance can be given as to whether or when any such transaction will occur or what form it might take. Any such transaction would be subject to similar risks and uncertainties. Acquisitions and other transactions can also involve a number of special risks and challenges, including: · diversion of management time and attention from the Company’s existing business and other business opportunities; · delays in closing or the inability to close an acquisition for any reason, including third-party consents or approvals; · any unanticipated negative impact on the Company of disclosed or undisclosed matters relating to any vessels or operations acquired; and · assumption of debt or other liabilities of the acquired business, including litigation related to the acquired business. The success of acquisitions or strategic investments depends on the effective integration of newly acquired businesses or assets into OSG’s current operations. Such integration is subject to risks and uncertainties, including realization of anticipated synergies and cost savings, the ability to retain and attract personnel and clients, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, and undisclosed or potential legal liabilities of the acquired company or asset. OSG may not realize the strategic and financial benefits that it expects from any of its past acquisitions, or any future acquisitions. Further, if a portion of the purchase price of a business is attributable to goodwill and if the acquired business does not perform up to expectations at the time of the acquisition some or all of the goodwill may be written off, adversely affecting OSG’s earnings. OSG has recorded material write-offs of goodwill and intangible assets in prior years related to earlier acquisitions it consummated. Changes in demand in specialized markets in which the Company currently trades may lead the Company to redeploy certain vessels to other markets. The Company deploys its vessels in several specialized markets, including, without limitation, Lightering in the Delaware Bay. The Company conducts those Lightering operations with two ATBs which were constructed using funds withdrawn from the Company’s CCF. If there is lower demand in these markets, which adversely affects the Company’s financial position, the Company may have to consider redeploying these two ATBs in other markets. If that occurs, the Company may not be able to compete profitably in the new markets, and the ATBs may not be able to be redeployed to new markets without substantial modification. 28Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. Operating costs and capital expenses will increase as the Company’s vessels age and may also increase due to unanticipated events relating to secondhand vessels and the consolidation of suppliers. In general, capital expenditures and other costs necessary for maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increase as the age of the vessel increases. As of December 31, 2015, the weighted average age of the Company’s total owned and operated fleet was 10.6 years. In addition, older vessels are typically less fuel-efficient than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates are also expected to increase with the age of a vessel, since older vessels may be less desirable to charterers. Accordingly, it is likely that the operating costs of OSG’s currently operated vessels will increase. In addition, changes in governmental regulations and compliance with Classification Society standards may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage and/or may require OSG to make additional expenditures for new equipment. Every commercial tanker must pass inspection by a Classification Society authorized by the vessel’s country of registry. The Classification Society certifies that a tanker is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rule and regulations of the country of registry of the tanker and the international conventions of which that country is a number. If a Classification Society requires the Company to add equipment, OSG may be required to incur substantial costs or take its vessels out of service. Market conditions may not justify such expenditures or permit OSG to operate its older vessels profitably even if those vessels remain operational. If a vessel in OSG’s fleet does not maintain its class and/or fails any survey, it will be unemployable and unable to trade between ports. This would negatively impact the Company’s results of operation. In addition, the Company’s fleet includes a number of secondhand vessels. While the Company typically inspects secondhand vessels before it purchases them, those inspections do not necessarily provide OSG with the same level of knowledge about those vessels’ condition that OSG would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by it. The Company may not discover defects or other problems with such vessels before purchase, which may lead to expensive, unanticipated repairs, and could even result in accidents or other incidents for which the Company could be liable. Furthermore, recent mergers have reduced the number of available suppliers, resulting in fewer alternatives for sourcing key supplies. With respect to certain items, OSG is generally dependent upon the original equipment manufacturer for repair and replacement of the item or its spare parts. Supplier consolidation may result in a shortage of supplies and services, thereby increasing the cost of supplies or potentially inhibiting the ability of suppliers to deliver on time. These cost increases or delays could result in downtime, and delays in the repair and maintenance of the Company’s vessels and FSOs and have a material adverse effect on OSG’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company derives a substantial portion of its U.S. Flag segment’s revenue from a limited number of customers, and the loss of, or reduction in business by, any of these customers could materially adversely affect the U.S. Flag segment’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The U.S. Flag segment’s largest customers account for a significant portion of its revenues. The U.S. Flag segment’s top five customers comprised approximately 61% of the U.S. Flag segment’s revenues during 2015. The loss of, or reduction in business by, any of these customers could materially adversely affect the U.S. Flag segment’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The lifting of the U.S. crude oil export ban could adversely impact the Company’s U.S. Flag Fleet. Over the last four decades, the ability of U.S. producers to export domestic crude oil has been restricted by the U.S. government. In December 2015, the U.S. government enacted the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016, which, among other things, removed the restriction on the export of domestic crude oil from the United States. Although the impact of the lifting of the ban on the Company’s U.S. Flag fleet’s operations is not determinable, the removal of the crude oil export restrictions could result in reduced coastwise transportation of crude oil, which may have an adverse impact on the Company’s U.S. Flag segment. Certain potential customers will not use vessels older than a specified age, even if they have been subsequently rebuilt. All of the Company’s existing ATBs with the exception of the OSG Vision/OSG 350 and the OSG Horizon/OSG 351 were originally constructed more than 25 years ago. While all of these tug-barge units were rebuilt and double-hulled since 1998 and are “in-class,” meaning the vessel has been certified by a Classification Society as being built and maintained in accordance with the rules of that Classification Society and complies with the applicable rules and regulations of the vessel’s country of registry and applicable international conventions, some potential customers have stated that they will not charter vessels that are more than 20 years old, even if they have been rebuilt. Other customers may not continue to view rebuilt vessels as suitable. If more customers differentiate rebuilt vessels, time charter rates for the Company’s rebuilt ATBs will likely be adversely affected or they may not be employable. The Company’s significant operating leases could be replaced on less favorable terms or may not be replaced. The Company’s operating fleet includes 17 vessels that have been chartered-in under operating leases. The significant operating leases of the Company in its various businesses expire at various points in the future and may not be replaced at all or on as favorable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 29Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. The Company is subject to credit risks with respect to its counterparties on contracts, and any failure by those counterparties to meet their obligations could cause the Company to suffer losses on such contracts, decreasing revenues and earnings. The Company has entered into, and in the future will enter into, various contracts, including charter agreements, joint venture agreements and other agreements associated with the operation of its vessels. The Company charters its vessels to other parties, who pay the Company a daily rate of hire. The Company also enters COAs and Voyage Charters. Historically, the Company has not experienced material problems collecting charter hire but the global economic downturn of recent years has affected charterers more severely than the prior recessions that have occurred since the Company’s establishment more than 45 years ago. The Company also Time Charters or Bareboat Charters some of its vessels from other parties and its continued use and operation of such vessels depends on the vessel owners’ compliance with the terms of the time charter or bareboat charter. Additionally, the Company enters into derivative contracts (interest rate swaps and caps) from time to time. As a result, the Company is subject to credit risks. The ability of each of the Company’s counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with it will depend on a number of factors that are beyond the Company’s control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions; availability of debt or equity financing; the condition of the maritime and offshore industries; the overall financial condition of the counterparty; charter rates received for specific types of vessels; and various expenses. Charterers are sensitive to the commodity markets and may be impacted by market forces affecting commodities such as oil. In addition, in depressed market conditions, the Company’s charterers and customers may no longer need a vessel that is currently under charter or contract or may be able to obtain a comparable vessel at lower rates. As a result, the Company’s customers may fail to pay charter hire or attempt to renegotiate charter rates. If the counterparties fail to meet their obligations, the Company could suffer losses on such contracts which would decrease revenues, cash flows and earnings. The counterparty to OSG’s largest Delaware Bay Lightering contract has approached the Company about restructuring the contract to lower the minimum volumes contained therein and has indicated that the termination or reduction payment that they would be required to make under the terms of the underlying contract would pose an unreasonable economic burden. If the counterparty fails to comply with the terms of the existing long-term contract, including provisions requiring that compensation be paid to the Company under certain circumstances, and OSG is unable to obtain replacement time charters at desirable rates, the Company’s profitability and cash flows may be adversely affected. The Company depends on its key personnel and may have difficulty attracting and retaining skilled employees. OSG’s success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of its key personnel. The loss of the services of key personnel or the Company’s inability to attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on OSG’s business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, all of the Company’s seven executive officers have served in their current positions for less than two years and all ten members of the Board were first elected in or after August 2014 (three directors were first elected in August 2015). Work stoppages or other labor disruptions by the unionized employees of OSG or other companies in related industries may adversely affect OSG’s operations. As of December 31, 2015, OSG had approximately 890 regular full-time employees, of which 632 employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions. See Item 1, “Business ___ Employees.” In addition, OSG relies on the services of third parties who employ persons covered by collective bargaining agreements. OSG could be adversely affected by actions taken by employees of OSG or other companies in related industries (including third parties providing services to OSG) against efforts by management to control labor costs, restrain wage or benefits increases or modify work practices or the failure of OSG or other companies in its industry to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements. The Company may face unexpected drydock costs for its vessels. Vessels must be drydocked periodically. For example, the USCG requires the Company’s vessels to be drydocked for inspection and maintenance twice every five years. The cost of repairs and renewals required at each drydock are difficult to predict with certainty, can be substantial and the Company’s insurance does not cover these costs. In addition, vessels may have to be drydocked in the event of accidents or other unforeseen damage, and OSG’s insurance may not cover all of these costs. Vessels in drydock will generally not generate any income. Large drydocking expenses could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the time when a vessel is out of service for maintenance is determined by a number of factors including regulatory deadlines, market conditions, shipyard availability and customer requirements, and accordingly the length of time that a vessel may be off-hire may be longer than anticipated, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Technological innovation could reduce the Company’s charter income and the value of the Company’s vessels. The charter rates and the value and operational life of a vessel are determined by a number of factors including the vessel’s efficiency, operational flexibility and physical life. Efficiency includes speed, fuel economy and the ability to load and discharge cargo quickly. Flexibility includes the ability to enter harbors, utilize related docking facilities and pass through canals and straits. The length of a vessel’s physical life is related to its original design and construction, its maintenance and the impact of the stress of operations. If new tankers are built that are more efficient or more flexible or have longer physical lives than the Company’s vessels, competition from these more technologically advanced vessels could adversely affect the amount of charter payments the Company receives for its vessels once their initial charters expire and the resale value of the Company’s vessels could significantly decrease. As a result, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. 30Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. Interruption or failure of OSG’s information technology and communications systems could impair its ability to operate and adversely affect its business. OSG is highly dependent on information technology systems. These dependencies include accounting, billing, disbursement, cargo booking and tracking, vessel scheduling and stowage, equipment tracking, customer service, banking, payroll and communication systems. Information technology and communication systems are subject to reliability issues, integration and compatibility concerns, and security-threatening intrusions. OSG may experience failures caused by the occurrence of a natural disaster, computer hacking or viruses or other unanticipated problems at OSG’s facilities, aboard its vessels or at third-party locations. Any failure of OSG’s or third-party systems could result in interruptions in service, reductions in its revenue and profits, damage to its reputation or liability for the release of confidential information. A portion of OSG’s revenues are subject to seasonal variations. OSG operates its tankers in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand for tanker capacity, and therefore, charter rates. Peaks in tanker demand quite often precede seasonal oil consumption peaks, as refiners and suppliers anticipate consumer demand. Charter rates for tankers are typically higher in the fall and winter months as a result of increased oil consumption in the Northern Hemisphere. Unpredictable weather patterns and variations in oil reserves disrupt tanker scheduling. Because a majority of the Company’s vessels trade in the spot market, seasonality has affected OSG’s operating results on a quarter-to-quarter basis and could continue to do so in the future. Such seasonality may be outweighed in any period by then current economic conditions or tanker industry fundamentals. Effective internal controls are necessary for the Company to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. The Company maintains a system of internal controls to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP. The process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires the Company to anticipate and react to changes in its business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy its reporting obligations as a public company. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase the Company’s operating costs and harm its business. Furthermore, investors’ perceptions that the Company’s internal controls are inadequate or that the Company is unable to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis may harm its stock price. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters The Company’s business would be adversely affected if it failed to comply with the Jones Act’s limitations on U.S. coastwise trade, or if these limitations were waived, modified or repealed, or if changes in international trade agreements were to occur. Certain of the Company’s U.S. Flag operations are conducted in the U.S. coastwise trade and are governed by U.S. federal laws commonly known as the “Jones Act”. The Jones Act restricts waterborne transportation of goods between points in the United States to vessels meeting certain requirements, including ownership and control by “U.S. Citizens” as defined thereunder. The Company is responsible for monitoring the foreign ownership of its common stock and other interests to ensure compliance with the Jones Act. The Company could lose the privilege of owning and operating vessels in the Jones Act trade if non-U.S. Citizens were to own or control, in the aggregate, more than 25% of the equity interests in the Company. Such loss would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. In addition, under certain circumstances failure to comply with the Jones Act may result in the Company being deemed to have violated other U.S. federal laws that prohibit a foreign transfer of U.S. documented vessels without government approval, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of U.S. coastwise trading privileges or forfeiture of the vessels deemed transferred, and fines. Additionally, maritime transportation services are currently excluded from the General Agreement on Trade in Services (“GATS”) and are the subject of reservations by the United States in the North American Free Trade Agreement (“NAFTA”) and other international free trade agreements. If maritime transportation services were included in GATS, NAFTA or other international trade agreements, or if the restrictions contained in the Jones Act were otherwise repealed or altered, the transportation of maritime cargo between U.S. ports could be opened to international flag or foreign built vessels. During the past several years, interest groups have lobbied Congress, and legislation has been introduced, to repeal certain provisions of the Jones Act to facilitate international flag competition for trades and cargoes currently reserved for U.S. Flag vessels under the Jones Act. The Company expects that continued efforts will be made to modify or repeal the Jones Act. Because international vessels may have lower construction costs, wage rates and operating costs, this could significantly increase competition in the coastwise trade, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 31Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. Governments could requisition the Company’s vessels during a period of war or emergency, which may negatively impact the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and available cash. A government could requisition one or more of the Company’s vessels for title or hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. In addition, two OSG vessels participate in the U.S. Maritime Security Program, which ensures that militarily useful U.S. Flag vessels are available to the U.S. Department of Defense in the event of war or national emergency. These vessels are required to trade outside the United States but are eligible for government-sponsored business. Under the program, OSG receives an annual fee, subject in each case to annual Congressional appropriations, in exchange for a guarantee that the ships will be made available to the U.S. government in the time of war or national emergency. Government requisition of one or more of the Company’s vessels may negatively impact the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and available cash. The Company’s vessels may be directed to call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. government, which could negatively affect the trading price of the Company’s common shares. From time to time, certain of the Company’s vessels, on the instructions of the charterers or pool manager responsible for the commercial management of such vessels, have called and may again call on ports located in countries or territories, and/or operated by persons, subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government, the United Nations (“UN”) or the EU and countries identified by the U.S. government, the UN or the EU as state sponsors of terrorism. The U.S., UN and EU sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or expanded over time. Some sanctions may also apply to transportation of goods (including crude oil) originating in sanctioned countries (particularly Iran), even if the vessel does not travel to those countries, or otherwise acting on behalf of sanctioned persons. Sanctions may include the imposition of penalties and fines against companies violating national law or companies acting outside the jurisdiction of the sanctioning power themselves becoming the target of sanctions. Although OSG believes that it is in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations and intends to maintain such compliance, and OSG does not, and does not intend to, engage in sanctionable activity, OSG might fail to comply or may engage in a sanctionable activity in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation or sanctionable activity could result in fines or other penalties, or the imposition of sanctions against the Company, and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in the Company and negatively affect OSG’s reputation and investor perception of the value of OSG’s common stock. Compliance with complex laws, regulations, and, in particular, environmental laws or regulations, including those relating to the emission of greenhouse gases, may adversely affect OSG’s business. The Company’s operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national and local environmental protection laws, regulations, treaties, conventions and standards in force in international waters, the jurisdictional waters of the countries in which OSG’s vessels operate, as well as the countries of its vessels’ registration. Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills. They also regulate other water pollution issues, including discharge of ballast water and effluents and air emissions, including emission of greenhouse gases. These requirements impose significant capital and operating costs on OSG, including, without limitation, ones related to engine adjustments and ballast water treatment. Environmental laws and regulations also can affect the resale value or significantly reduce the useful lives of the Company’s vessels, require a reduction in carrying capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions (and related increased operating costs) or retirement of service, lead to decreased availability or higher cost of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to, or detention in, certain jurisdictional waters or ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, OSG could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous substances from its vessels or otherwise in connection with its operations. OSG could also become subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to the release of or exposure to hazardous materials associated with its current or historic operations. Violations of or liabilities under environmental requirements also can result in substantial penalties, fines and other sanctions, including in certain instances, seizure or detention of the Company’s vessels. 32Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. OSG could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, fines, penalties, third-party claims and natural resource damages, as the result of an oil spill or liabilities under environmental laws. The Company is subject to the oversight of several government agencies, including the U.S. Coast Guard, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Maritime Administration of the U.S. Department of Transportation. OPA 90 affects all vessel owners shipping oil or hazardous material to, from or within the United States. OPA 90 allows for potentially unlimited liability without regard to fault for owners, operators and bareboat charterers of vessels for oil pollution in U.S. waters. Similarly, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, 1969, as amended, which has been adopted by most countries outside of the United States, imposes liability for oil pollution in international waters. OPA 90 expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries. Coastal states in the United States have enacted pollution prevention liability and response laws, many providing for unlimited liability. Similarly, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, 1969, as amended, which has been adopted by most countries outside of the United States, imposes liability for oil pollution in international waters. In addition, in complying with OPA 90, IMO regulations, EU directives and other existing laws and regulations and those that may be adopted, shipowners likely will incur substantial additional capital and/or operating expenditures in meeting new regulatory requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. Key regulatory initiatives that are anticipated to require substantial additional capital and/or operating expenditures in the next several years include more stringent limits on the sulfur content of fuel oil for vessels operating in certain areas and more stringent requirements for management and treatment of ballast water. Beginning in 2016, OSG believes that one of its vessels will become subject to more stringent numeric discharge limits of ballast water under the EPA’s VGP, with additional vessels becoming subject in future years, even though that vessel has obtained a valid extension from the USCG for implementation of treatment technology under the USCG’s final rules. The EPA has determined that it will not issue extensions under the VGP but has stated that vessels that (i) have received an extension from the USCG (ii) are in compliance with all of the VGP requirements other than numeric discharge limits and (iii) meeting certain other requirements will be entitled to “low enforcement priority”. While OSG believes that any vessel that is or may become subject to the more stringent numeric discharge limits of ballast water meets the conditions for “low enforcement priority,” no assurance can be given that they will do so. If the EPA determines to enforce the limits for such vessels, such action could have a material adverse effect on OSG. See Item 1, “Business ___Environmental and Security Matters Relating to Bulk Shipping.” Other government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become more strict in the future and require the Company to incur significant capital expenditures on its vessels to keep them in compliance, or even to scrap or sell certain vessels altogether. Such expenditures could result in financial and operational impacts that may be material to OSG’s financial statements. Additionally, the failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with local, domestic and foreign regulations may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. For example, in February 2015, the USCG personnel detained the tanker Overseas Jademar in Port Angeles, Washington for violation of safety regulations, which included non-functioning distress signaling equipment and fire safety systems. If any of our vessels are denied access to, or are detained in, certain ports, reputation, business, financial results and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Accidents involving highly publicized oil spills and other mishaps involving vessels can be expected in the tanker industry, and such accidents or other events could be expected to result in the adoption of even stricter laws and regulations, which could limit the Company’s operations or its ability to do business and which could have a material adverse effect on OSG’s business, financial results and cash flows. In addition, the Company is required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to its operations. The Company believes its vessels are maintained in good condition in compliance with present regulatory requirements, are operated in compliance with applicable safety and environmental laws and regulations and are insured against usual risks for such amounts as the Company’s management deems appropriate. The vessels’ operating certificates and licenses are renewed periodically during each vessel’s required annual survey. However, government regulation of tankers, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental impact may change in the future and require the Company to incur significant capital expenditures with respect to its ships to keep them in compliance. Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries, including the United States, and international organizations, including the EU, the IMO and the UN, have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These regulatory measures include, among others, adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. Such actions could result in significant financial and operational impacts on the Company’s business, including requiring OSG to install new emission controls, acquire allowances or pay taxes related to its greenhouse gas emissions, or administer and manage a greenhouse gas emission program. See Item 1, “Business ___ Environmental and Security Matters Relating to Bulk Shipping.” In addition to the added costs, the concern over climate change and regulatory measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions may reduce global demand for oil and oil products, which would have an adverse effect on OSG’s business, financial results and cash flows. 33Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. The employment of the Company’s vessels could be adversely affected by an inability to clear the oil majors’ risk assessment process. The shipping industry, and especially vessels that transport crude oil and refined petroleum products, is heavily regulated. In addition, the “oil majors” such as BP, Chevron Corporation, ConocoPhillips Company, Exxon Mobil Corp., Royal Dutch Shell, and Total S.A. have developed a strict due diligence process for selecting their shipping partners out of concerns for the environmental impact of spills. This vetting process has evolved into a sophisticated and comprehensive risk assessment of both the vessel manager and the vessel, including audits of the management office and physical inspections of the ship. Under the terms of the Company’s charter agreements, the Company’s charterers require that the Company’s vessels and the technical managers pass vetting inspections and management audits respectively. The Company’s failure to maintain any of its vessels to the standards required by the oil majors could put the Company in breach of the applicable charter agreement and lead to termination of such agreement. Should the Company not be able to successfully clear the oil majors’ risk assessment processes on an ongoing basis, the future employment of the Company’s vessels could be adversely affected since it might lead to the oil majors’ terminating existing charters. The Company may be subject to litigation and government inquiries or investigations that, if not resolved in the Company’s favor and not sufficiently covered by insurance, could have a material adverse effect on it. The Company has been and is, from time to time, involved in various litigation matters and subject to government inquiries and investigations. These matters may include, among other things, regulatory proceedings and litigation arising out of or relating to matters related to the restatement of the Company’s financial statements in 2012, contract disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, asbestos and other toxic tort claims, employment matters, governmental claims for taxes or duties, and other disputes that arise in the ordinary course of the Company’s business. In particular, the Company is subject to an investigation by the SEC’s Division of Enforcement related to tax issues raised in the Company’s October 22, 2012 Form 8-K, and the SEC filed a proof of claim against the Company in the Bankruptcy Court in connection with that investigation. To the extent this claim is allowed by the Bankruptcy Court, the Equity Plan provides a maximum reserve of up to $5 million as the exclusive source from which to satisfy any liabilities on account of that claim. In the event that the SEC asserts separate claims against individuals affiliated with the Company, liabilities associated with such claims are not included in this reserve, and any such liabilities not covered by insurance may be subject to reimbursement by the Company, subject to the terms of the Equity Plan. Additionally, there are a number of pending lawsuits alleging injuries related to purported asbestos exposure in various state and federal courts, as well as certain proofs of claim alleging such exposure pending before the Bankruptcy Court. The Company believes it has insurance coverage for the majority, though not all, of these cases. Although the Company intends to defend these matters vigorously, it cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any such matter, and the ultimate outcome of these matters or the potential costs to resolve them could involve or result in significant expenditures or losses by the Company, or result in significant changes to OSG’s tariffs, rates, rules and practices in dealing with its customers, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future operating results, including profitability, cash flows, and financial condition. Insurance may not be applicable or sufficient in all cases and/or insurers may not remain solvent which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. The Company’s recorded liabilities and estimates of reasonably possible losses for its contingent liabilities are based on its assessment of potential liability using the information available to the Company at the time and, as applicable, any past experience and trends with respect to similar matters. However, because litigation is inherently uncertain, the Company’s estimates for contingent liabilities may be insufficient to cover the actual liabilities from such claims, resulting in a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” and Note 21, “Contingencies,” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in Item 8__“Financial Statement and Supplementary Data.” The smuggling of drugs or other contraband onto the Company’s vessels may lead to governmental claims against the Company. The Company expects that its vessels will call in ports where smugglers attempt to hide drugs and other contraband on vessels, with or without the knowledge of crew members. To the extent the Company’s vessels are found with contraband, whether inside or attached to the hull of our vessel and whether with or without the knowledge of any of its crew, we may face governmental or other regulatory claims which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Maritime claimants could arrest OSG’s vessels, which could interrupt cash flows. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of the Company’s vessels could interrupt OSG’s cash flow and require it to pay a significant amount of money to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel that is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, meaning any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in the Company’s fleet for claims relating to another vessel in its fleet which, if successful, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 34Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. The Company’s U.S. federal income tax position in respect of certain credit agreement borrowings used by OIN is not free from doubt. The Company has taken the position that certain drawdowns by the Company under the Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility used solely by OIN should not be taken into account in determining amounts includible in OSG’s income as deemed dividends under section 951(a)(1)(B) and section 956 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for taxable years 2013 and earlier. Although the Company believes that it has a strong basis for taking this position, there is no authority directly on point and the Company has established a reserve in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification 740. If the IRS were to challenge the Company’s position, the Company’s total cash exposure could exceed the reserve, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Transfers or issuances of the Company’s equity may impair or reduce the Company’s ability to utilize its net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes in the future. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, contain rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an “ownership change” to utilize its net operating loss and tax credit carry forwards and certain built-in losses recognized in years after the ownership change. An “ownership change” is generally defined as any change in ownership of more than 50% of a corporation’s stock over a rolling three-year period by stockholders that own (directly or indirectly) 5% or more of the stock of a corporation, or arising from a new issuance of stock by a corporation. If an ownership change occurs, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the use of pre-ownership change NOLs, credits and certain other tax attributes to offset taxable income earned after the ownership change. The annual limitation is equal to the product of the applicable long-term tax exempt rate and the value of the company’s stock immediately before the ownership change. This annual limitation may be adjusted to reflect any unused annual limitation for prior years and certain recognized built-in gains and losses for the year. In addition, Section 383 generally limits the amount of tax liability in any post-ownership change year that can be reduced by pre-ownership change tax credit carryforwards. If the Company were to undergo an “ownership change,” it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. OSG’s financial condition would be materially adversely affected if the shipping income of OSG’s foreign subsidiaries becomes subject to current taxation in the United States. As a result of changes made by the American Jobs Creations Act of 2004 (“2004 Act”), the Company does not include in its U.S. tax return on a current basis the unrepatriated shipping income earned by its international flag vessels, which in recent years represented substantially all of the Company’s pre-tax income. These changes in the 2004 Act were made to make U.S.-controlled shipping companies competitive with foreign-controlled shipping companies, which are generally incorporated in jurisdictions in which they either do not pay income taxes or pay minimal income taxes. The taxation of OSG’s foreign subsidiaries under U.S. laws is a complex area and is subject to ongoing analysis and recalculation, which can have a material impact on the Company. See Note 13, “Taxes,” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statement and Supplementary Data.” The President and several Congressmen and Senators have announced support for repealing certain tax provisions that purportedly incentivize companies to move jobs from the United States to foreign countries. While the Company believes that the changes made in the 2004 Act with respect to foreign shipping income do not “incentivize moving jobs offshore,” and, in fact, have enabled the Company to expand its U.S. Flag fleet and create jobs in the United States, Congress may decide to repeal the changes made in the 2004 Act with respect to taxation of foreign shipping income for the aforementioned reason or as part of initiatives to reduce the U.S. budget deficit or to reform the U.S. corporate tax regime. Such repeal, either directly or indirectly by limiting or reducing benefits received under the 2004 Act, could have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial results and cash flows. Risks Related to the Common Stock and Warrants The market price of the Company’s securities may fluctuate significantly. The market price of the Company’s securities may fluctuate substantially. You may not be able to resell your Class A or Class B common stock or Class A or Class B warrants at or above the price you paid for such securities due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond the Company’s control. These risks include those described or referred to in this “Risk Factors” section and under “Forward -Looking Statements,” as well as, among other things: fluctuations in the Company’s operating results; activities of and results of operations of the Company’s competitors; changes in the Company’s relationships with the Company’s customers or the Company’s vendors; changes in business or regulatory conditions; changes in the Company’s capital structure; any announcements by the Company or its competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures; additions or departures of key personnel; investors’ general perception of the Company; failure to meet market expectations; future sales of the Company’s securities by it, directors, executives and significant stockholders; changes in domestic and international economic and political conditions; and other events or factors, including those resulting from natural disasters, war, acts of terrorism or responses to these events. Any of the foregoing factors could also cause the price of the Company’s equity securities to fall and may expose the Company to securities class action litigation. Any securities class action litigation could result in substantial cost and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. In addition, the stock market has recently experienced volatility that, in some cases, has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s securities, regardless of its actual operating performance. 35Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. The Company’s stock and warrants are thinly traded, and your ability to sell such securities may be limited. The Company’s Class A warrants and Class B warrants are currently traded as “restricted securities” in the over-the-counter market and in privately negotiated transactions among individual holders pursuant to exemptions from the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Transactions are reported as taking place only sporadically. Certain broker-dealers report quotes for the purchase and sale of Class A warrants and Class B warrants. The Company cannot assure you as to the liquidity of any market that may develop for the Class A warrants or Class B warrants, your ability to sell your Class A warrants or Class B warrants or the price at which you would be able to sell such securities. The Company’s Class A common stock and the Company’s Class B common stock is listed on New York Stock Exchange MKT system. However, trading volume has been relatively low. Low levels of liquidity may make it difficult for you to sell your Class A common stock or your Class B common stock at any particular time. The exercise of outstanding warrants may result in substantial dilution to the Company’s stockholders. As of February 24, 2016, the Company had outstanding: · 187,503,175 Class A warrants with an exercise price of $0.01 per share exercisable into an aggregate of 205,214,537 shares of Class A common stock; and · 479,341 Class B warrants with an exercise price of $0.01 per share exercisable into an aggregate of 479,341 shares of Class B common stock and 45,279 shares of Class A common stock. Collectively, if exercised, the shares of common stock underlying these warrants would represent, as of that date, approximately 36% of the Company’s outstanding common stock following such exercise. Accordingly, any such exercise would result in substantial dilution to the Company’s stockholders. The Company’s common stock is subject to restrictions on foreign ownership, which could have a negative impact on the transferability of the Company’s common stock, its liquidity and market value, and on a change of control of the Company. The Company’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-Laws authorize its Board of Directors to establish with respect to any class or series of capital stock of the Company certain rules, policies and procedures, including procedures with respect to transfer of shares, to assist in monitoring and maintaining compliance with the Jones Act ownership restrictions. In order to provide a reasonable margin for compliance with the Jones Act, the Company’s Board of Directors has determined that until further action by it, at least 77% (the “Minimum Percentage”) of the outstanding shares of each class of capital stock of the Company must be owned by U.S. Citizens. Moreover, the Company’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-Laws provide that any purported transfer of equity interests in the Company that caused the percentage of outstanding shares of a class of capital stock of the Company to fall below the Minimum Percentage will be ineffective to transfer the equity interests or any voting, dividend or other rights associated with such interests. The percentage of U.S. citizenship ownership of the Company’s outstanding common stock fluctuates based on daily trading, and at times in the past, including at times in 2015 and 2016, has declined to the Minimum Percentage. At and during such time that the Minimum Percentage is reached with respect to outstanding shares of a class of the Company’s stock, the Company is unable to issue any further shares of such class of common stock or approve transfers of such class of common stock to non-U.S. Citizens among other things. The existence and enforcement of these ownership restrictions could have an adverse impact on the liquidity or market value of the Company’s equity securities. Furthermore, under certain circumstances, the ownership restrictions could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of the Company. The Company’s outstanding warrants are not subject to the above ownership restrictions, but the warrants include provisions limiting the right of non-U.S. Citizens to exercise warrants if the shares of common stock that would be issued upon exercise would cause the percentage of the Company’s outstanding common stock held by U.S. Citizens to decline below the Minimum Percentage. The Company has a limited history of paying cash dividends on its securities. The Company has not paid any regular cash dividends since the third quarter of 2011. On February 29, 2016, the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.08 per share of common stock payable prior to the end of March 2016. The declaration and timing of future cash dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon, among other things, our future operations and earnings, capital requirements, general financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law or the SEC and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant. 36Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. OSG is a holding company and depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to distribute funds to it in order to satisfy its financial obligations or pay dividends. Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. is a holding company and its subsidiaries conduct all of its operations and own all of its operating assets. It has no significant assets other than the equity interests in its subsidiaries. As a result, its ability to satisfy its financial obligations or pay dividends is dependent on the ability of its subsidiaries to distribute funds to it. In addition, the terms of the Exit Financing Facilities restrict the ability of OIN, OBS and their respective subsidiaries to distribute funds to Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. Some provisions of Delaware law and the Company’s governing documents could influence its ability to effect a change of control. Certain provisions of Delaware law and contained in the Company’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-Laws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of the Company. In addition, these provisions could make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of the Company’s board of directors. For example, the Company’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-Laws: · give the sole ability to then-current members of its board of directors to fill a vacancy on the board of directors; · require the affirmative vote of two-thirds or more of the combined voting power of the outstanding shares of its capital stock in order to amend or repeal certain provisions of its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-Laws; and · establish advance notice requirements for nomination for elections to its board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings These and other provisions of the Company’s organizational documents and Delaware law may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing changes of control or changes in management, even if such transactions or changes would have significant benefits for its stockholders. As a result, these provisions could limit the price some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of the Company’s common stock. Separately, the Company has elected to opt out of Section 203 (“Section 203”) of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”), which restricts certain business combinations between a Delaware corporation and an “interested stockholder.” Accordingly, the Company will be able to enter into such transactions with its principal stockholders without complying with the requirements of Section 203. The election to opt out of Section 203 could deprive certain stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of the Company, particularly if it enters into a transaction with an “interested stockholder.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 