ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risks are among some of the most important risks faced by us. The list of risks below is not exhaustive, and there may be other risks that significantly affect us. Any of the following risks could significantly harm our business, results of operations and financial condition, and the price of our common stock. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in highly competitive markets. We and our subsidiaries operate in highly competitive markets in Alabama. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in these markets. We compete for loans, deposits and other financial services in our geographic markets with other local, regional and national commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, mortgage lenders, and securities and insurance brokerage firms. Many of our competitors offer products and services different from us, and have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence than we do, which benefits them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than us and have broader customer and geographic bases to draw upon. We face credit quality risks and our credit policies may not be sufficient to avoid losses. A significant source of risk for us arises from the possibility that losses will result because of the risks inherent in our lending business, due to the failure of borrowers, guarantors and related parties failing to pay interest on and principal of their loans from us. Although we maintain and have improved our credit policies, credit underwriting, monitoring and collection procedures to manage these risks of loss, these policies and procedures may not prevent losses that could harm our results of operations. If our customers fail to repay their loans or pay interest when due, then our business would suffer. 13 Index to Financial Statements Our loan evaluation process and allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses. We seek to manage our credit exposure through review and monitoring of loan applicants and borrowers, and loan concentrations in particular industries, and through loan approval and credit review and risk management procedures. We have established evaluation processes to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. While this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the establishment of the amount of loan losses is an estimate based upon experience, judgment, and expectations regarding our borrowers, current and anticipated economic conditions in the markets in which we and our borrowers operate, as well as the judgments of our regulators, which may, in part, be based upon comparisons with our peers. If our loan loss reserves are insufficient to absorb future loan losses, then our profitability and financial condition will suffer. We are required to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, and if we fail to maintain sufficient capital, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be adversely affected. We must meet regulatory capital requirements. If we fail to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to remain “well capitalized” and “well managed” for regulatory purposes could affect customer confidence, our ability to grow, our costs of funds and FDIC insurance, our ability to raise brokered deposits, our ability to pay dividends on common stock in the future and our ability to make acquisitions. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, increased interest rates and competitive pressures. We have traditionally obtained funds principally through brokered deposits and borrowings from other institutional lenders. Generally, we believe local deposits are a cheaper and more stable source of funds than borrowings because interest rates paid for local deposits are typically lower than interest rates charged for borrowings from other institutional lenders. Brokered deposits are generally considered more likely to fluctuate in availability and rates than local deposits that may be relationship-based. Our costs of funds and our profitability and liquidity are likely to be adversely affected if we have to rely upon higher cost brokered deposits and borrowings from other institutional lenders to fund loan demand. We could encounter operational difficulties as a result of growth. Our loans, deposits, fee businesses and employees may increase as a result of our growth. Our failure to successfully manage and support our growth with sufficient human resources, training and operational, financial and technology resources could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to sustain or manage our growth. Additional growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, when it is needed. We anticipate that our current capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend, among other things, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. If we cannot raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be limited. Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us in the future. While we presently expect to seek more organic growth, we will continue to consider the acquisition of other businesses. However, we may not have the opportunity to make suitable acquisitions on favorable terms in the future, which could adversely affect our growth. We expect that other banking and financial companies, many of which have significantly greater resources, will compete with us to acquire financial services businesses. This competition could increase prices for potential acquisitions that we believe are attractive. Also, acquisitions are subject to various regulatory approvals. If we fail to receive the appropriate regulatory approvals, we will not be able to consummate an acquisition that we believe is in our best interests. Among other things, our regulators consider our capital, liquidity, profitability, regulatory compliance and levels of goodwill and intangibles when considering acquisition and expansion proposals. Our business may be harmed by inflation, price increases and changes in interest rates. Unlike most companies, virtually all of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and are therefore sensitive to changes in interest rates. Our profitability depends upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on assets, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. For example, when interest rates decline, the spread between the rate that we pay on our customer deposits and the rate that we charge on our commercial loans typically decreases. As this spread decreases, we generally realize lower net income from our commercial banking operations. 14 Index to Financial Statements If interest rates increase from their current historically low levels, then our banking business may benefit from an increase in the spread between the rate that we pay on our customer deposits and the rate that we charge on our commercial loans. However, this benefit may be offset by: • increases in the rates we have to pay on deposits; • the inflationary effect that typically accompanies increases in interest rates, which increases the prices of goods and services that we purchase, as well as the cost of salaries, benefits, occupancy expense, and overhead; • the decrease in the volume of our commercial loan origination that typically results from higher interest rates; • reduction in our borrower’s ability to service higher interest expenses; and • reduced volumes of mortgage loans. Increases in interest rates may also decrease the market value of our assets, including our investments, mortgages and loans held, which may harm our liquidity, ability to borrow funds, earnings, and stockholders’ equity. Interest rates, and consequently our results of operations, are affected by general economic conditions (domestic and foreign) and fiscal and monetary policies. Monetary and fiscal policies may materially affect the level and direction of interest rates. Beginning in June 2004, the Federal Reserve has raised the federal funds rate 15 times from 1.0% to 4.75%. Increases in interest rates generally decrease the market values of fixed-rate, interest-bearing investments and loans held and the production of mortgage and other loans, and therefore may adversely affect our liquidity and earnings. A downturn in our markets could adversely affect our business Our principal operating subsidiary, Community Bank, is a traditional community bank operating in the market area comprised of Blount County, Alabama, and the surrounding areas of Lauderdale, Limestone, Madison and Morgan Counties in north and west-central Alabama. We also operate branches in south west Alabama in Marengo and Perry Counties, and in west Alabama in Marion and Winston counties. As a result, our financial condition and performance are affected by the general economic conditions in the markets we serve, and our ability to diversify and manage economic risks is limited by the performance of these local economies. A significant downturn in these local economies could negatively affect our loan demand as well as the value of the collateral that secures these loans. Our market area is primarily retail-oriented and our operations are dependent upon local individuals and small- to medium-sized businesses. As a result, we may face greater lending and credit risks than financial institutions lending to larger, better-capitalized businesses with longer operating histories. We operate in a heavily regulated environment, and changes in state and federal regulations could adversely impact our business. Our success depends not only on competitive and market factors but also on state and federal regulations applicable to us. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision by several governmental regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, the Alabama State Banking Department, the Alabama Insurance Commission, the SEC and Nasdaq. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors, not stockholders. Regulation of the financial institutions industry has undergone extensive changes in recent years and continues to change frequently. We cannot predict the effects of these changes, and the regulations now affecting us may be modified at any time. We can give no assurance that future legislation or regulations will not harm our business or decrease the profitability of our business. We are subject to internal control reporting requirements that increase our compliance costs and failure to comply timely could adversely affect our reputation and the value of our securities. We are required to comply with various corporate governance and financial reporting requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules and regulations adopted by the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and Nasdaq. We have evaluated our controls, including compliance with the SEC rules on internal controls, and have spent, and expect to continue to spend, significant amounts of time and money on compliance with these rules, as we continue to work on the testing and reporting on internal controls required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and which are due at the end of 2006. Our failure to comply with these internal control rules may materially adversely affect our reputation, ability to obtain the necessary certifications to financial statements, and the value of our securities. At December 31, 2005, we had identified one material weakness in our financial reporting controls related to the treatment of an interest rate swap as a hedge. Specifically, the deficiency resulted from the absence of controls designed to ensure the proper application of generally accepted accounting principles to derivative financial instruments. As a result of this deficiency and the resulting errors in accounting for derivative financial instruments, previously reported 2004 and 2005 financial information was restated. These restatements were required to properly reflect changes in the estimated fair value of certain derivative financial instruments as a component of earnings in the period of change in estimated fair value. 15 Index to Financial Statements Technological changes affect our business, and we may have fewer resources than many competitors to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to serving clients better, the effective use of technology may increase efficiency and may enable financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in operations. We may need to make significant additional capital investments in technology in the future, and we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements than we do. We rely heavily on our executive officers, who would be difficult to replace. Our success depends, and is expected to continue to depend, on our executive officers. In particular, we rely on Mr. Patrick M. Frawley, the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Community Bancshares and the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Community Bank, and Mr. Stacey Mann, the President and Chief Operating Officer of Community Bank. Our growth will continue to place significant demands on our management, and the loss of these executive officers’ services could harm our future operations. If we were to lose any of these key executive officers, we may be unable to identify, attract and retain a qualified replacement on favorable terms, if at all. Our rights to collect interest and take other actions may be limited by the Servicemembers’ Civil Relief Act of 2003. The United States declared “war” on terrorism and National Guard and reserve forces either have been called up or may be called up for domestic and international service. Under the Servicemembers’ Civil Relief Act of 2003, which amended and expanded the Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Civil Relief Act of 1940, a borrower who enters military service is afforded various types of relief under their loans and other obligations, including a maximum annual interest rate of 6% during the period of the borrower’s active duty status. The Act further provides that any interest in excess of 6% may not become due once the servicemember leaves active duty; any accrued interest above 6% is permanently waived. The Relief Act applies to members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, National Guard, Reserves, Coast Guard and officers of the U.S. Public Health Service assigned to active duty. Because the Relief Act applies to individuals who enter active military service after they enter into their loans, we cannot predict the effect that the Relief Act will have on our mortgage and commercial loans, if any. Under the Relief Act, we may be unable to collect the full amount of interest otherwise due on many of our loans for an indefinite period. Further, we may be unable to foreclose on these loans during, and in some cases after, the borrower’s period of active duty. We face regulatory risks related to our commercial real estate loan concentrations. Commercial real estate, or “CRE,” is cyclical and poses risks of possible loss due to concentration levels and similar risks of the asset. The banking regulators have begun giving CRE lending greater scrutiny, and may require banks with higher levels of CRE loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly requiring higher levels of allowances for possible loan losses and capital levels as a result of CRE lending growth and exposures. We may be unable to meet our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness, and, in particular, under our 10.875% junior subordinated debentures. We have several outstanding debt obligations, and, in order to repay those obligations, we must obtain adequate funds. As a holding company, we rely primarily on dividends from Community Bank to make payments of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, to meet debt payment obligations, including payments on our trust preferred securities and to meet other obligations. As a result, our success and our ability to make such payments and meet such obligations depends upon the earnings and capital position of Community Bank and the ability of Community Bank to pay dividends or make distributions to us. 16 Index to Financial Statements If we default on any debt obligation, then we may face claims by creditors to recover monies owed to them, and we may face cross-defaults under other obligations, whereupon all amounts owed by us could become immediately due, which would significantly harm our business and our ability to finance our operations and growth, and likely result in Community Bancshares being the subject of a bankruptcy proceeding. In March 2000, we issued $10.0 million of junior subordinated debentures that back an equivalent amount of trust preferred securities. The debentures accrue and pay interest semiannually at a rate of 10.875% per annum and have a maturity date of March 8, 2030, at which time we will be obligated to repay the $10.0 million principal amount of the debentures. We have, as permitted by the instruments governing our trust preferred securities and related junior subordinated debentures, deferred interest payments on these securities. In addition, because our trust preferred securities are held by a special purpose entity in a securitized pool, we may be unable to renegotiate the terms of, or to repurchase, our outstanding trust preferred securities prior to 2010 in order to refinance these at lower interest rates and on better terms. Some of our debt may be accelerated at any time by the lender. Under Community bank’s “Convertible Advance Program” line of credit with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta, or the “FHLBA,” we presently owe $38.0 million. In an “event of default” under this line of credit, the FHLBA may declare all or any part of our indebtedness to the FHLBA, together with any accrued interest, and including any prepayment fees, to be immediately due and payable. Included in the list of “events of default” is the situation where the FHLBA reasonably and in good faith determines that a “material adverse change” has occurred in the financial condition of Community Bank from that disclosed at the time of the making of any advance or from the condition of Community Bank as most recently disclosed to the FHLBA. In the event that the FHLBA determines that, since the time that we borrowed funds under the line of credit, there has been a “material adverse change” in the financial condition of Community Bank, then the FHLBA may declare all amounts due under the line of credit immediately due and payable. In that case, we would need to seek additional sources of funding from deposits, borrowings, repurchase agreements or capital in order to repay amounts outstanding, which we may be unable to obtain on favorable terms, if at all, and which would significantly harm our business and our ability to finance our operations and growth. A default on our FHLBA line of credit could lead to defaults on other indebtedness and the bankruptcy, receivership or conservatorship of Community Bancshares and Community Bank. We may be difficult to acquire, which could harm the market price of our common stock and our preferred stock and deprive you of a possible premium over the market price. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of discouraging a third party from acquiring control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their common stock or their preferred stock. Among other things, these provisions: • authorize us to issue preferred stock, the terms of which may be determined in the sole discretion of our board of directors and may harm the voting or economic rights of the holders of our common stock or of other series of our preferred stock; • provide for a classified board of directors having three classes, with each class serving staggered three year terms, so that no more than approximately one-third of our board of directors could be replaced at any annual meeting of our stockholders; • restrict the persons eligible to call a special meeting of our stockholders; and • provide that our directors may be removed only for cause by the holders of at least 80% of our outstanding common stock. We may acquire other companies, and our business operations may suffer if we do not successfully implement and integrate our acquisitions. We may engage in acquisitions, mergers and branch sales, either as buyers or sellers, in the future. Acquisitions, mergers and branch transactions involve a number of risks, including: • the time associated with identifying and evaluating potential transactions; 17 Index to Financial Statements • our ability to finance the transaction and any associated costs, including possible dilution to our existing stockholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the integration of the assets, operations or personnel of the acquired businesses; • entry into new markets where we lack experience; • the introduction of new products and services into our business; • possible adverse short-term effects on our results of operations and profitability; • possible amortization of goodwill associated with an acquisition; • the risk of loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business; • risks of unknown or contingent liabilities; • unanticipated costs and delays; • risks that acquired new businesses do not perform consistent with our growth and profitability expectations; • risks that growth will strain our infrastructure, staff, internal controls and management, which may require additional personnel, time and expenditures; • exposure to potential asset quality issues with acquired institutions; • difficulties, expenses and delays of integrating the operations and personnel of acquired institutions, and start-up delays and costs of other expansion activities; and • potential disruptions to our business; We may issue equity securities and other forms of common stock-based consideration in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our current stockholders and to investors purchasing our common stock in this offering. There can be no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisition, integration efforts will be successful or that our company, after giving effect to the acquisition, will be profitable. A hedge fund shareholder seeks to elect three new directors, which could result in new management and/or the sale of our company. One of our largest stockholders, a New York hedge fund, recently launched a proxy contest in an effort to have its own slate of directors elected as members of our board of directors, as replacements for our existing directors, in conjunction with this year’s annual meeting of stockholders. If this proxy contest is successful, the new board of directors may determine to replace our existing management team and/or seek a sale of our company. We cannot predict the outcome of the proxy contest, nor can we predict the actions, or related effects of those actions, that may be taken by the newly elected board of directors. This stockholder, which purchased shares of our common stock at a price substantially lower than that paid by many of our other stockholders, and the directors elected by this stockholder, may seek a sale transaction at a price that is lower than that which would appeal to many of our other stockholders. The hedge fund’s actions may increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has fluctuated, and could fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock has been and could be subject to wide fluctuations, including fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in our operating results, changes in our dividend payments, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, material announcements by us or our competitors, governmental or regulatory actions, acquisitions, the liquidity of the market for our common stock, changes in general economic and market conditions, changes in the securities markets, war and other conflicts, acts of terrorism, speculation raised by the actions of a hedge fund stockholder seeking a sale of the Company and the election of three new directors, market rumors and other events, many of which are beyond our control. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations which have affected market prices of smaller capitalization companies and which often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. In addition, if our operating results fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the price of our common stock would likely decline, perhaps substantially. 18 Index to Financial Statements Our ability to pay dividends to stockholders in the future is subject to profitability, capital, liquidity and regulatory requirements. Cash available to pay dividends to our stockholders is derived primarily from dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries, and, principally, Community Bank. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us, as well as our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders, will continue to be subject to and limited by the results of operations of our subsidiaries and our need to maintain appropriate liquidity and capital consistent with regulatory requirements and the needs of our businesses. We may issue additional securities, which could affect the market price of our common stock and dilute ownership. We may issue additional securities to raise capital to support growth or make acquisitions. Holders of our common stock do not have any preemptive rights to purchase additional shares of our common stock in future offerings. Therefore, holders of our common stock may not be able to maintain their current percentage equity interest if we decide to issue more common stock or more preferred stock, or other securities exercisable or exchangeable for, or convertible into, our common stock. We also have made and expect to continue to make grants of equity-based compensation to retain and motivate employees, and we have issued warrants to certain outside third parties. As a result of the exercise or conversion of outstanding options and warrants, the ownership interests of our existing stockholders could be diluted. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception by the market that those sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could make it more difficult for us to raise capital through the sale of common stock or to the use of common stock as currency in future acquisitions. Future potential debt incurred by us, and future debt or preferred stock issuances by us, may negatively affect the holders of our common stock. Any existing or future debt or preferred securities of our Company will require the payment of interest or dividends prior to the payment of dividends on our common stock. Debt and preferred securities also will have a senior claim on our assets relative to our common stockholders. Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or dissolution, our assets must be used to pay off our debt and preferred obligations in full before making any distributions to our common stockholders. 