ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have incurred net losses in the past and may incur losses in the future. With the exception of fiscal 2008, we have incurred net losses since fiscal 1998, including in fiscal 2012. Until recently, our circuit-switched product line, Promina, provided a substantial portion of our revenue. The market for that product line has declined significantly. In fiscal 2012, we recorded inventory reserve charges of $2.1 million, which contributed to the net loss. These charges in large part reflected end-of-life announcements issued in fiscal 2012 for some of the products in our Promina product line as well as changes in our expectations regarding the useful lives of certain inventory components for the Promina product line. In order for the Company to be profitable in future periods, we need our newer products to achieve commercial success. Any shortfall in revenue compared to our annual financial plan would likely require that we reduce spending, though the Company has already made significant expense reductions in recent fiscal years and many of our remaining costs are relatively fixed making it difficult to further reduce spending significantly. 12 Index Our operating results and the market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past, will likely continue to fluctuate in the future and may decline. Fluctuations or a decline in our stock price may occur regardless of our performance. Among the factors that could affect our stock price, in addition to our performance, are: ● variations between our operating results and either the guidance we have furnished to the public or the published expectations of securities analysts; ● changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts following our business; ● announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new products or services, acquisitions, or other significant transactions; ● the issuance by us of common stock or other securities in the future; ● the inclusion or exclusion of our stock in various indices or investment categories; ● changes in the stock prices of other telecommunications equipment companies, to the extent that some investors tend to buy or sell our stock based on segment trends; ● the trading volume of our common stock; and ● repurchases we make of our common stock or early retirement of debt. Our future capital needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next twelve months. However, in light of our recent history of net losses, we may need to raise additional capital to fund our operations. In addition, we will be required to repay borrowings under our convertible senior notes and our redeemable convertible subordinated debentures currently totaling $34.2 million, in fiscal 2014 and 2015. Unless our future cash flow from operations is sufficient to repay such amounts in full, we will need to raise additional capital to repay such amounts or we will need to restructure or refinance these debt obligations, neither of which can be assured. Additional capital may not be available on terms that we consider acceptable or may not be available to us at all. If we raise capital by selling equity securities, our existing security holders may suffer dilution. If we raise capital by debt financing, we could be subject to covenants restricting our operations in ways that may prove detrimental to us. If additional capital is needed and we are unable to raise it on acceptable terms, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate some or all of our research and development programs or other operations, which may include delaying further development of our products; or reduce marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our products or operations. Any of these developments could harm our business, results of operations, or financial condition. We may not be able to maintain our listing on the Nasdaq Global Market. Our common stock currently trades on the Nasdaq Global Market, which has continued listing requirements that we must satisfy in order to maintain our listing. The standards include, among others, a minimum bid price requirement of $1.00 per share. Our results of operations and our fluctuating stock price directly affects our ability to satisfy these listing standards. If we fail to do so, we may be subject to delisting. At certain times in the past, the market price of our common stock has been less than $1.00 per share. Recently our stock price has been trading at market prices around $1.00. On March 22, 2012, we received a deficiency letter from NASDAQ notifying us that we were failing to meet The NASDAQ Global Market’s listing rules requirement for listed securities to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share, based upon the closing bid price of the our common stock for the 30 consecutive business days prior to the date of the letter. On April 10, 2012, we received notification from NASDAQ that we had regained compliance with the bid price requirement, as a result of our common stock remaining above $1.00 per share for the period from March 23, 2012 to April 9, 2012. The matter is now closed, however we remain subject to NASDAQ’s continued listing standards, including the bid price requirement. A delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market could result in our common stock being listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market or on an over-the-counter market, each of which are generally considered to be a less efficient market than the NASDAQ Global Market. A delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market could have a number of other negative consequences, including greater difficulty in obtaining financing and a loss of confidence by customers, suppliers and employees. In addition, our convertible senior notes will become callable if our common stock ceases to be traded on a U.S. national securities exchange or established automated over-the-counter market. As of the date of issuance of these financial statements, we were in compliance with all applicable requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. 13 Index A significant portion of our revenue is generated from government sales, which are subject to potential delays and cutbacks, require specific development efforts, and impose significant compliance obligations. A significant portion of our total revenue from product sales has come from contracts with governmental agencies, most of which do not include long-term purchase commitments. A majority of these sales have involved our Promina product, for which sales have declined substantially in recent periods. While the government has purchased and is evaluating some of our new products for broader deployment, this new business may not develop quickly or be sufficient to offset future declines in sales of our Promina product. Spending by government customers fluctuates based on budget allocations and the timely passage of the annual federal budget. An impasse in federal government budget decisions could lead to substantial delays or reductions in federal spending. During 2011, the U.S. Government was unable to reach agreement on budget reduction measures required by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the "Budget Act") passed by Congress. Unless Congress and the Administration take further action, the Budget Act will trigger automatic reductions in both defense and discretionary spending in January 2013. The resulting automatic across-the-board budget cuts in sequestration would likely cause a substantial reduction in revenues from our federal government customers. The federal government has issued specific requirements for IP networking products to incorporate a technology referred to as “IPv6” and requires products destined for use in military applications be certified by the Joint Interoperability Test Command (JITC). If we are unable to complete development efforts necessary to support IPv6 within the timeframes required by the federal government or are unable to obtain JITC certifications as needed, our government sales, and hence our revenue and results of operations, may suffer. A substantial portion of the revenue generated from our government customers is based on our contract with the GSA. This contract imposes significant compliance and reporting obligations on us. The contract also establishes a fixed price under which government customers may purchase our products and provides for automatic mandatory price reductions upon certain events. In addition, the GSA can impose financial penalties for non-compliance. Our success depends on our ability to develop new products and product enhancements that will achieve market acceptance. Our operating results will depend on the successful design, development, testing, introduction, marketing, and broad commercial distribution of our newer products. The success of these products is dependent on several factors, including proper product definition, competitive pricing, timely completion and introduction to the market, differentiation from competitors’ products, and broad market acceptance. Successful introduction of new products also requires the development of relevant expertise in our product support organization. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and evolving methods of building and operating networks. We may not successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner, or achieve market acceptance of our products. Our products and product enhancements are increasingly designed as elements of a solution involving products and technologies being developed by third parties, and the success of our products will therefore be affected by the availability and success of the third party products. At the same time, products and technologies developed by others may render our products or technologies obsolete or non-competitive, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to achieve profitability. Gross margins could decline over future periods. Gross margins may be adversely affected in the future due to increases in material and labor costs, increases in subcontractor charges, changes in the mix of products and services we sell, increased sales through resellers, increased warranty costs, or pressure on pricing and margins due to competition. As we introduce new products, our overall gross margins may decline, as new products typically have lower gross margins than established products, as a result of customary discounting for early customers and higher per-unit costs associated with low purchase volumes of components. A decline in our gross margins could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Litigation may materially adversely affect our business. Existing and future litigation may result in monetary damages, injunctions against future product sales and substantial unanticipated legal costs and may divert the efforts of management personnel, any and all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations in foreign countries are subject to political, economic and regulatory risks. We conduct sales and customer support operations in countries outside of the United States and depend on non-U.S. operations of our subsidiaries and distribution partners. As a general rule, international sales tend to have risks that are difficult to foresee and plan for, including political and economic instability, possible expropriation, regulatory changes, changes in currency exchange rates, difficulties in protecting our intellectual property, changes in tax rates and structures, and collection of accounts receivable. Further, our international markets are served primarily by non-exclusive resellers and distributors who themselves may be severely affected by economic or market changes within a particular country or region. Our international sales are subject to the requirements of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and similar laws of other countries. For sales within the European Union, our products must comply with the Restriction on Hazardous Substances Directive (RoHS) and Waste from Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) requirements, any failure of which could result in fines, product seizures, or injunctions against sale. 14 Index Our products are subject to export controls and shipments of our products sometimes require a license from the U.S. government. We are subject to U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including, but not limited to the Export Administration Regulations (EAR), International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Under these laws and regulations, we are responsible for obtaining all necessary licenses or other approvals, if required, for exports of hardware, software and technology, as well as the provision of service. For some of our products subject to EAR, the requirement for a license is dependent on the type and end use of the product, the final destination, the identity of the end user, and whether a license exception might apply. Obtaining export licenses can be difficult and time-consuming, and in some instances a license may not be available on a timely basis or at all. In fiscal 2011, we learned that some of our products may have been exported or re-exported in violation of U.S. export laws. Consequently, we launched an internal investigation of our export-related activities, and reported the results of the investigation to the U.S. government. To date, the U.S. government has not taken action against the Company, but has issued the Company a number of warning letters and a portion of the U.S. government’s review of the matter remains open. If the U.S. government determines that we have failed to comply with one or more export control laws or trade sanctions, we could be subject to various civil or criminal penalties, including the imposition of significant fines, denial of export privileges, loss of revenues from certain customers, and debarment from participation in U.S. government contracts. Any one or more of these sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market for our products is highly competitive and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. The market for networking equipment is highly competitive and dynamic, has been characterized by rapid technological changes and shifting customer requirements, and has seen a worldwide migration from existing circuit technology to the new packet-based technologies. We compete directly, both internationally and domestically, with many different companies, some of which are large, established suppliers of end-to-end solutions, such as Alcatel-Lucent, Avaya, Cisco Systems, Juniper Networks, and Siemens AG. In addition to some of these large suppliers, a number of other smaller companies are targeting the same markets as we are. Particularly, in the unified communications market, Audiocodes Limited and Dialogic Corporation provide competitive solutions and are also partners with Microsoft. Our larger competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing and technical resources than we have, offer a wider range of networking products than we offer, and can often provide a complete network solution. They are often able to devote greater resources to the development, marketing and sale of their products and to use their equity or significant cash reserves to acquire other companies with technology and/or products that compete directly with ours. They often can compete favorably on price because their sales volume and broad product lines can allow them to make discounted sales while maintaining acceptable overall profit margins. The smaller companies have more ability than we do to focus their resources on a particular product development unencumbered by the requirements to support an existing product line. As a result of the flexibility of their market strategies, our competitors may be able to obtain strategic advantages that may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the networking equipment market has seen the constant introduction of new technologies that have reduced the value of older technology solutions. This has created pricing pressure on older products while increasing the performance expectations of newer networking equipment. Moreover, broadband technology standards are constantly evolving, and alternative technologies or technologies with greater capability are constantly introduced and sought by our customers. It is possible that the introduction of other technologies will either supplant our current technologies and technologies we have in development, or will require us to significantly lower our prices in order to remain competitive. To remain competitive, we must continue to evolve our product lines to meet the ever-changing technology needs of the networking market while ensuring that they can be sold at a competitive price. We also must enhance our Promina product line to provide needed features that increase its overall value for the customer while keeping the price competitive. Due to the competitive nature of the market and the relative age of our Promina product offerings as well as the competitive pressure affecting all our products, we may not be able to maintain prices for them at levels that will achieve profitability. Also, we may not be successful in completing the development of, or commercializing, products under development. If we are unable to sign competitive resale partners, our future product and service revenue will be adversely affected. Our international sales, other than those made to foreign ministries of defense (MoDs), are made through indirect channels that include distributors and resellers worldwide, and our business strategy includes leveraging resale partners in the United States. In addition, many of our target customers, including the government, rely on systems integrators to incorporate new equipment or services into their networks. While we have begun the process of identifying and signing software application, system integrator and OEM or resale partners, more partners are necessary in these areas for us to be successful. We may also need to pursue strategic partnerships with vendors who have broader technology or product offerings in order to compete with the end-to-end solution providers. In addition, many of the enterprise markets we are pursuing require a broad network of resale partners in order to achieve effective distribution. Failure to sign up new reseller and strategic partners, or to implement business processes and services needed to adequately support the distribution channel, could affect our ability to grow overall revenue. 15 Index Our sales through systems integrators typically involve the use of our products as components of a larger solution being implemented by the systems integrator. In these instances, the purchase and sale of our product is dependent on the systems integrator, who typically controls the timing, prioritization, and implementation of the project. Project delays, changes in priority, or solution re-design decisions by the systems integrator can adversely affect our product sales. Our products have long sales cycles, making it difficult to predict when a customer will place an order and when to forecast revenue from the related sale. Many of our products are complex and represent a significant capital expenditure to our customers. The purchase of our products can have a significant effect on how a customer designs its network and provides services either within its own organization or to an external customer. Consequently, our customers often engage in extensive testing and evaluation of products before purchase. There are also numerous financial and budget considerations and approvals that a customer often must obtain before it will issue a purchase order. As a result, the length of our sales cycle can be quite long, extending beyond twelve months in some cases. We have little visibility into the sales pipelines of resellers, which adds to the difficulty of accurately forecasting revenue. In addition, our customers, including resellers, often have the contractual right to delay scheduled order delivery dates with minimal penalties and to cancel orders within specified time frames without penalty, which makes it difficult to predict whether or not an order may actually ship. We often must incur substantial sales and marketing expense to ensure a purchase order is placed. If orders are not placed in the quarter forecasted, our sales may not meet forecast and revenue may be insufficient to meet expenses. Because it is difficult for us to accurately forecast sales, particularly within a given time frame, we face a risk of having too much or too little inventory. Typically, the majority of our revenue in each quarter has resulted from orders received and shipped in that quarter. While we do not believe that backlog is necessarily indicative of future revenue levels, our customers’ ordering patterns and the possible absence of backlogged orders create a significant risk that we could carry too much or too little inventory if orders do not match forecasts. Rather than base forecasts on orders received, we have been forced to schedule production and commit to certain expenses based more upon forecasts of future sales, which are difficult to predict. We are generally liable for excess component inventory and unsold product assemblies that our contract manufacturer orders or assembles based on our forecasts. If large orders do not close when forecasted or if near-term demand weakens for the products we have available to ship, we will have expenses with no corresponding revenue and our operating results for that quarter or subsequent quarters would be materially adversely affected. At the same time, we may face shortages that preclude us from fulfilling orders that are not in our forecast, as a result of lead times for component procurement and manufacturing. If there is an unexpected decrease in demand for certain products or there is an increased risk of inventory obsolescence, which can happen relatively quickly due to rapidly changing technology and customer requirements, adjustments may be required to write down or write off certain inventory, which would adversely affect our operating results. Delays in government programs or other customer ordering could cause products or product versions to become obsolete sooner than forecasted, which could result in substantial write-downs. We maintain inventory of various products and components in order to compensate for lead times in parts ordering and product manufacturing, as well as to avoid shortages of parts that are difficult to procure or no longer available. Due to our long sales cycle, customer orders may span release schedules for new versions of our products, particularly if there are delays in customer ordering. As a result, orders we expected to fulfill with one version may become orders for the next version, which could result in us holding obsolete inventory for the earlier version. We have significant unreserved inventory balances on hand, including inventory that is owned by our contract manufacturer but for which we are responsible if it is unused. Substantial charges for the write-down or write-off of obsolete inventory would adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to attract, recruit and retain key personnel, then we may not be able to successfully manage our business. Our success continues to be dependent on our being able to attract and retain highly skilled engineers, managers and other key employees. In most cases, we face significant competition for the most qualified personnel for new positions and to replace departing employees. If we are not able to continue to attract, recruit and retain key personnel, particularly in engineering and sales and marketing positions, we may be unable to meet important company objectives such as product delivery deadlines and sales targets. 16 Index Over the past several years, we have restructured our organization which may cause disruptions to our business. In fiscal 2012, we implemented a restructuring that included significant workforce reductions. In fiscal 2011, we reorganized a number of functions and sought ways to reduce costs and improve efficiencies, such as changes to our internal business processes, transitions to different vendors or service providers, and outsourcing of certain functions. These activities are subject to a number of risks, such as diversion of management time and resources; diminished ability to respond to customer requirements, both as to products and services; and disruption of our engineering and manufacturing processes. Further, despite our efforts, the savings we expect from these actions may not be achieved, or may be achieved only after an initial increase in costs. Problems resulting from these reorganization activities, such as potential challenges maintaining our business systems and operating infrastructure, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition, particularly if coupled with a failure to achieve the expected cost savings. In addition, changes to our business processes may require revisions to our internal controls, and may make it more difficult for us to achieve certification of our internal control over financial reporting, if required. Our ability to ship our products in a timely manner is dependent on the availability of component parts and other factors. Several key components of our products are available only from a single source, including certain integrated circuits and power supplies. Depending upon the component, there may or may not be alternative sources or substitutes. Some components are purchased through purchase orders without an underlying long-term supply contract, and some components are in short supply generally throughout the industry. If a required component were no longer available, we might have to significantly reengineer the affected product. Further, variability in demand and cyclical shortages of capacity in the semiconductor industry have caused lead times for ordering parts to increase from time to time. Delays may occur as a result of factors beyond our control, including weather-related delays and other events. If we encounter shortages or delays in receiving ordered components or if we are not able to accurately forecast our ordering requirements, we may be unable to ship ordered products in a timely manner, resulting in decreased revenue. In some instances, our product development efforts are based on component parts, such as integrated circuits, still under development by third-parties. Any delay or failure by the third-party provider to complete and release such a component, which is generally beyond our control, would cause delays or an inability for us to complete and ship the product that is based on the component, which would adversely affect our revenue. Generally, our customer contracts allow the customers to reschedule delivery dates or cancel orders within certain time frames before shipment without penalty and outside those time frames with a penalty. Because of these and other factors, there are risks of excess or inadequate inventory that could negatively affect our expenses, revenue and earnings. Additionally, defense expedite (DX)-rated orders from the federal government, which by law receive priority, can interrupt scheduled shipments to our other customers. We outsource our product manufacturing. We outsource our product manufacturing, including most assembly and structural test, as well as functional test, systems integration, and order fulfillment functions, though we generally remain liable for inventory of components and finished material. Any difficulties or failures to perform by our contract manufacturers could cause delays in customer product shipments or otherwise negatively affect our results of operations. We also share responsibility for inventory management and production planning with our contract manufacturers, which may increase the risks of carrying too much or too little inventory of either component parts or manufactured product. We have agreed to compensate our contract manufacturers in the event of termination or cancellation of orders, discontinuance of product, or excess material. Also, should our principal contract manufacturer in some future period decide not to renew our contract with it, or should we experience any failure to perform or other difficulties with our principal contract manufacturer, it would be difficult for us to quickly transfer our manufacturing requirements to another vendor, likely causing substantial delays in customer product shipments and adversely affecting our revenue and results of operations. As inventory ages, we may be required to make substantial deposits with or purchases from our contract manufacturer. As part of our arrangement with our principal contract manufacturer, we are required to make deposits on certain purchased raw materials or certain work-in-process items that are held for greater than 90 days, although the contract manufacturer must make efforts to minimize our liability for this inventory, including returning materials to suppliers, canceling orders with suppliers or using materials to manufacture product for its other customers. Raw material and in-process inventories that are unused and have been held for more than nine months require us to take ownership, or, at a minimum, pay a management fee assuming there is future forecasted demand for those inventories. Further, if anticipated demand for inventories does not materialize in future periods, we are required to take ownership of those associated inventories. We have substantial amounts of inventory at our principal contract manufacturer, and have already made significant deposits on some of the inventory. Additional deposits may be required in the future and if the inventory continues to remain on hand, we may be required to purchase the inventory underlying the deposit and adjustments may be required to write down or write off this inventory, any of which would adversely affect our operating results. 17 Index Our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to protect our business. Our future success depends in part upon our proprietary technology. Although we attempt to establish and maintain rights in proprietary technology and products through patents, copyrights, and trade secrets laws, we cannot predict whether such protection will be adequate or whether our competitors can develop similar technology independently without violating our proprietary rights. As competition in the communications equipment industry increases and the functionality of the products in this industry further overlap, we believe that companies in the communications equipment industry may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. We have received and may continue to receive notice from third parties, including some of our competitors, claiming that we are infringing their patents or their other proprietary rights. To settle such claims, we may enter into licensing arrangements requiring us to pay a royalty to the third party. We cannot predict whether we will prevail in any litigation over third-party claims or that we will be able to license any valid and infringed patents on commercially reasonable terms. Any of these claims, whether with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, divert our management’s time, attention and resources, delay our product shipments or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. In addition, a third party may not be willing to enter into a royalty or licensing agreement on acceptable terms, if at all. If a claim of product infringement against us is successful and we fail to obtain a license or develop or license non-infringing technology, we may be unable to market the affected product. Although we have a number of patent applications pending, we cannot guarantee that any will result in the issuance of a patent. Even if issued, the patent may later be found to be invalid or may be infringed without our knowledge. Our issued patents might not be enforceable against competitive products in every jurisdiction, and it is difficult to monitor unauthorized use of our proprietary technology by others. Regardless of our efforts to protect our intellectual property, the rapidly changing technologies in the networking industry make our future success primarily a function of the skill, expertise and management abilities of our employees. Nonetheless, others may assert property rights to technologies that are relevant to our currently marketed products or our products under development. If our protected proprietary rights are challenged, invalidated or circumvented, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and sales of our products. Conversely, if other parties are infringing our patents, we may pursue claims against them in order to yield value attributable to our technology. Such claims could involve costly litigation, could divert our management’s time and resources, and could result in counterclaims challenging rights to other technology used by us. We rely on technologies licensed from third parties. For each of our product lines, we license some of our technology from third parties. Some of these licenses contain limitations on distribution of the licensed technology, are limited in duration, or provide for expiration upon certain events, such as a change in control of the company. If the relevant licensing agreement expires or is terminated without our being able to renew that license on commercially reasonable terms or if we cannot obtain a license for our products or enhancements on our existing products, we may be unable to market the affected products or may be liable for monetary damages. Our license arrangements are generally not exclusive to us. Our license for a third-party technology, or any exclusivity thereto, may be limited in territory or scope. We generally pay an ongoing royalty for licensed technology, which can restrict our ability to manage costs of the product, leaving us more vulnerable to competition from others, including potentially the licensor itself. For many of these technologies, we rely on the third-party providers to update and maintain the technology, fixing errors and adding new features. If the third-party providers do not adequately update and maintain these technologies, whether due to changes in their product direction, their own financial difficulties, or other reasons, we would need to seek alternative means to fulfill the ongoing requirements for our products that incorporate the third-party technology. If we are unable to find alternative means of fulfilling the ongoing requirements, we may be unable to market the affected products. We outsource some of our product development activities, which carries inherent risks such as reduced ability to control the timing and quality of the work product, uncertain continuity and availability of skills and knowledge, difficulties of managing and integrating the third-party development, and potential disputes over intellectual property. To the extent we use parties located in overseas jurisdictions, the intellectual property provided to or developed by the third party may, depending on the laws of the jurisdiction, be subject to weaker or significantly different intellectual property protection. In using third parties for product development, we must share with them and will receive from them various intellectual property, which increases the risk of misuse of our intellectual property, as well as the risk that the resulting product might contain items that infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Many of our sales depend on our achieving third-party certifications for our products. In several markets for our products, we must achieve various certifications from third parties in order to obtain sales of those products. For example, sales of unified communications products often require certification of interoperability with other vendors’ products; sales to the federal government of products destined for use in military applications must be certified by the JITC; and international sales may depend on standards established by telecommunications authorities in various countries. These certification processes can be lengthy and often require the commitment of another vendor’s or agency’s personnel and test equipment, and we compete with other suppliers for these resources. Even after achieving a particular certification, we may be required to re-certify our products as technologies evolve and other vendors’ products are updated. Any delays in obtaining these certifications or failure to obtain these certifications could adversely affect our ability to sell our products. 18 Index The market for some of our products depends on the availability and demand for other vendors’ products. Some of our products, particularly those addressing the unified communications market, are designed to function with other vendors’ products. In these cases, demand for our products is dependent upon the availability, demand for, and sales of the other vendors’ products, as well as the degree to which our products successfully interoperate with the other vendors’ products and add value to the solution being provided to the customer. If the other vendors change the design of their products, delay the issuance of new releases, fail to adequately market their products, or are otherwise unsuccessful in building a market for their products, the demand for our products will be adversely affected. We face risks associated with changes in regulations and tariffs, including regulation of the Internet. Changes in domestic and international telecommunications equipment requirements could affect the sales of our products. In the United States, our products must comply with various FCC requirements and regulations. In countries outside of the United States, our products must sometimes meet various requirements of local telecommunications authorities. Changes in tariffs or failure by us to obtain timely approval of products could affect our ability to market the affected products. New restrictions on trade, such as in response to transfers of jobs from the United States to lower-cost foreign locations, could limit our ability to purchase components from, or outsource functions to, foreign entities, which would likely make it more difficult to maintain competitiveness in the global market. As a result of our current concentration of business to the federal government, we are more sensitive to these trade restrictions, whether tariffs, incentives, or government purchasing requirements such as the “Buy American Act,” than we would be with a more diversified customer base. Changes in other laws and regulations, or changes in their interpretation or enforcement, such as confidentiality requirements under the federal privacy laws, California’s state wage and hour laws, or employment regulations in foreign jurisdictions, impose additional costs and potential liabilities on us. We are exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currency. As a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse affect on our financial results. We use foreign exchange contracts to hedge significant accounts receivable and intercompany account balances denominated in foreign currencies. Although we have established foreign exchange contracts for non-dollar denominated sales and operating expenses in the United Kingdom, France, and Japan, exposures remain for non-dollar denominated operating expenses in Asia and Latin America. We will continue to monitor our exposure and may hedge against these or any other emerging market currencies as necessary. Market value gains and losses on hedge contracts are substantially offset by fluctuations in the underlying balances being hedged. We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our investment portfolio. Although we have not experienced any material losses on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, future declines in their market values could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our investment policy requires our investments to have a credit rating of single-A or better, with asset backed securities rated triple A. If any of these issuers default on their obligations, or their credit ratings are negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, financial results, or other factors, the value of our cash equivalents and short-term investments could decline and result in a material impairment. The location of our facilities subjects us to the risk of earthquake and floods. Our corporate headquarters, including most of our research and development operations, are located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. These facilities are located near the San Francisco Bay where the water table is quite close to the surface and where tenants in nearby facilities have experienced water intrusion problems. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake or flood, could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Any material weakness or significant deficiency identified in our internal controls could have an adverse effect on our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that companies evaluate and report on their internal control structure and procedures over financial reporting. In the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we completed a review of our historical practices with respect to inventory valuation. That review indicated that during fiscal 2011 and in the first half of fiscal 2012 we did not consistently follow our accounting policies for determining inventory valuation. Specifically, we did not maintain effective controls to ensure that the process to determine the correct classification of certain assets as inventory not expected to be consumed within the next 12 months complied with our accounting policies. As a result of this significant deficiency in our internal controls, we reclassified prior period inventory and other non-current assets in our fiscal 2012 third quarter quarterly report on Form 10-Q, and in this fiscal 2012 annual report on Form 10-K. Other significant deficiencies or material weaknesses could arise that would be required to be reported in the future. Due to the minimal number of people that we currently employ, there is a risk that we may not be able to maintain adequate segregation of duties, which would be a weakness in our internal controls. If the Company fails to maintain an effective system of internal controls, it may not be able to accurately report its financial results or prevent fraud. In addition, the evaluation process and any required remediation, if applicable, may increase our accounting, legal and other costs, and may divert management resources from other business objectives and concerns. 19 Index ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 