Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules Signatures PART I Forward-Looking Statements Statements contained in this Form 10-K that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws that relate to future events or our future financial performance. A forward-looking statement may contain words such as “plans,” “hopes,” “believes,” “estimates,” “will,” “continue to,” “expect to,” “anticipate that,” “to be,” or “can affect.” Forward-looking statements are based upon management expectations, forecasts and assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Many factors may cause actual results to vary including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in this Form 10-K. We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to revise or publicly release any update s or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained in this Form 10-K except as required by law. Investors should carefully review the risk factors described in this Form 10-K along with other documents the Company files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Network Equipment Technologies, Inc. (NET), founded in 1983, develops and sells voice and data networking solutions that enable the integration and migration of existing networks to secure internet protocol (IP)-based communications. We have more than 25 years of operating history and a worldwide customer base that includes both government entities and enterprise customers. Our enterprise customer base includes large enterprises adopting unified communications (UC) and small- to mid-sized businesses (SMBs) implementing new Voice-over-IP (VoIP) technologies. Our government customers include a variety of federal and international agencies and organizations, including civilian and defense agencies and resellers to such entities. In addition to our direct sales capabilities, we are developing relationships with integrators, resellers and technology leaders to help drive our enterprise business. Our global support and service organization, along with third-party se rvice organizations, provides installation and other professional services, a variety of maintenance programs, technical assistance, and customer training. Today, our solutions are focused on enabling our enterprise and government customers to cost-effectively migrate to next-generation IP networks, unified communications platforms, secure voice applications, and high-speed multiservice wide area networking (WAN) transport networks. Our voice solutions include the VX Series and the Quintum Series of switching media gateways. Our multi-service solutions include the Promina platform and the NX Series high speed multi-service network exchange platform. The VX Series and Quintum Series product lines provide enterprise customers with voice interoperability solutions that enable existing private branch exchange (PBX) and IP-PBX systems to work together with new unified communications platforms and IP-based service provider networks offering session-initiation protocol (SIP) trunking services. The VX Series also provides IP-based solutions to government agencies requiring high bandwidth efficiency and call performance for secure voice communications. The Quintum Series also provides traditional VoIP switching gateway solutions for SMBs and smaller branch offices within large enterprises. NET’s multi-service solutions include the Promina, NX1000 and NX5010 platforms. The Promina product line is our traditional multi-service platform, which has been serving government agencies and large enterprises for many years, providing industry-leading network reliability and security. The NX Series products are high-performance networking platforms that provide high-grade data transfer between storage area networks (SANs) and wide-area networks (WANs) and enable secure grid computing. Our NX1000 platform provides an extensive, compact, WAN switching solution that enables mission-critical, multi-service and serial data applications to integrate and aggregate into IP-based networks. The NX5010 platform enables high-speed, secure interconnection and extension of geographically distributed grid computing clusters and SANs, providing data transfer at rates of ten gigabits per second (10 Gbps). Our consolidated financial information for the last three fiscal years is set forth under Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. We use consolidated financial information in determining how to allocate resources and assess performance. For this reason, we have determined that we are engaged in a single reportable segment. Industry Background Telecommunications networks have evolved rapidly over the past few decades. The 1980s saw a shift away from public networks and application-specific networks to integrated private networks. These early WANs were constructed around fully-dedicated circuits to achieve high reliability along with cost savings. During the early 1990s, with the increasing availability of high-bandwidth switched digital services such as Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) and frame relay, demand grew for enterprise network platforms to manage switched services in conjunction with enterprise networks. In response to expanding requirements for equipment to support multiple technologies, application types, and services on a single communications platform, multi-service platforms were developed. Today, the rapid expansion in use of the Internet for commercial and consumer purposes, and the growth of data services as an increasing portion of telecommunications traffic, has resulted in tremendous demand for broadband solutions using cell or packet switching, as contrasted with narrowband circuit-switched approaches. Despite significant advances in packet-switching technology, circuit-switched networks continue to offer certain advantages for networks requiring the most secure and reliably deterministic communications. Although demand has been declining for a number of years, there is still currently a small market for circuit-switched products, particularly in environments with low bandwidth requirements. With the advent of IP-based technologies, traditionally separate voice and data environments have begun to converge, allowing for the transmission of voice along with other data over packet-routed networks, and providing an alternative to traditional circuit-switched telephone networks. As a result of the potential cost savings and added features of VoIP, consumers, enterprises, telecommunication service providers and others are increasingly adopting VoIP for their voice communications. This growth has been aided by technological advances that have recently improved the quality and reliability of VoIP connections to rival that of traditional telephone circuit service, including security features, and by innovations that allow VoIP connections to include services not available on traditional voice-only networks. VoIP transmissions, by virtue of the data flow over open packet-routed networks, are inherently not secure unless encryption or other security enhancem ents are applied to the transmission. The increasing use of VoIP transmissions over different types of networks, such as fixed-line, cellular, and short-distance wireless, creates an opportunity to use a single protocol for these transmissions, allowing for a convergence of fixed and mobile communications. As an example of this fixed-mobile convergence enterprises can enable subscribers to roam and handover calls between cellular networks and public and private wireless networks using dual-mode mobile handsets. With the proliferation of communications equipment and devices such as PBXs, mobile phones, and desktop-PC clients, along with a multitude of communications tools such as e-mail, voicemail, calendaring, internet messaging (IM), and video conferencing, enterprises are facing significant challenges to enable their workforces to efficiently manage their communications. To address this complexity, a number of large companies including Microsoft, HP and IBM have announced UC strategies and platf orms, which are aimed at integrating these various forms of communication. As the U.S. Federal Government moves to an all-IP network, there will be new applications, such as field-deployable VoIP gateways, secure data transmission in high performance networks, and grid computing applications. For example, many government agencies must incorporate advanced, high-speed data services into their networks while providing interoperability with the broad base of network technologies and applications that have been deployed over the years. Many new applications, such as those involving grid computing, will require high-bandwidth data transfer between SANs and WANs. InfiniBand is a communications technology for high performance networks that can interconnect large “compute clusters” due to its progressive scalability and extremely low latency. Until now, InfiniBand has been confined within the data center due to its sub-20 meter cable length limitations. New, very high-speed network processing chips make it possible to remove this l imitation, so that remotely located data centers and grid computing elements can be interconnected seamlessly with InfiniBand. Enterprise businesses adopting unified communications face a challenge in the migration of their existing telephony technologies to a new UC environment without disrupting existing operations. In performing the migration, they must address not only internal connections but also the myriad forms of contact with customers and other external business partners. Any solution must be able to access the hardware of existing telephony networks as well as new wired and wireless IP telephony services and devices. For UC to work effectively, the communication connectivity must be device-, application-, and network-independent. In addition, UC implementations will typically require capabilities for remote office support and survivability, security, high call-processing performance, and the ability to handle special routing and administration needs. Business Strategy Our strategy is to provide customers with intelligent, multi-service network and VoIP platforms for the secure, high-speed transport of voice, video, and data traffic that are designed to: · Support the intelligent connectivity of a broad array of communications networks and equipment. · Extend the viability of legacy communications systems. · Facilitate network evolution allowing customers to move to advanced communications systems at a pace that fits the needs of their business. · Reduce the risks associated with introducing new network technologies into users’ operations. The following are key elements of our strategy: Leverage our incumbent position in the government market. We were a pioneer of the concept of multi-service networking and have been delivering these mission-critical capabilities for more than 25 years. The installed base and revenue contribution from our narrowband Promina product line, sold primarily to government entities in recent years, are declining, but Promina continues to generate a significant portion of our revenue. We intend to leverage our installed customer base, particularly the government, for future sales of our new broadband and VoIP telephony platforms, enabling the transition to VoIP while continuing to support legacy traffic and applications. Design and develop industry leading communications equipment. We consider technological and product leadership to be critical to our future success. We have broad experience with mixed-service and multi-protocol networks, enabling us to develop solutions for a wide range of applications. We have extensively refined the features and technologies of our more mature products over their long product lifecycles. We strive to leverage this technological background to develop new products and additional functionality for existing products to meet our customers’ escalating requirements, specifically for VoIP conversion and secure voice applications. We believe that our newer products are helping accelerate the communications industry's rapid transition to software. Leverage relationships with key partners. In addition to direct sales to large enterprise and government customers, we are expanding our relationships with resellers, distributors, and other vendors. We enter agreements with technology suppliers to supplement our internal development efforts and may enter agreements with original equipment manufacturers for penetration into specific markets. We also seek relationships with systems integrators, software solutions providers, and large incumbent vendors globally that can facilitate success in global enterprise networks, expansion of our sales channel, and participation in major government projects. Align with partner-driven UC strategies. We are focused on expanding our network of global partners with the scale and expertise to address UC market opportunities. Microsoft, IBM, HP and other large hardware and software vendors are either pursuing or have announced strategies and products for the UC market. As a technology enabler of their strategies, we have worked and will continue to work closely with these companies. Microsoft has been a customer of ours for several years. This relationship has helped us to align our product development and resources to support Microsoft’s unified communications strategy and, as a result, we believe we are positioned to partner with other Microsoft solution providers. Through alliances with well-respected systems integrators and resellers, we are establishing channels for our products into the enterprise and government markets. Provide value-added service and system integration capabilities. Since our inception, we have viewed customer service and support as a key element of our overall strategy and a critical component for our long-term relationship with customers. Customers around the world turn to us not only for the reliability and performance of our products but also for our comprehensive support services that optimize the value of those products. Acquire companies that provide complementary technology, products or capabilities. As we continue to penetrate the government and enterprise sectors, our customers have provided us valuable feedback on their needs beyond the scope of our current product offerings. Based on that insight and the limits of our own internal development capabilities, we expect to pursue complementary acquisitions that will enhance our product portfolio, enabling our sales force and channels to offer highly integrated and high function solutions. Products Voice and Mobility Products Our voice and mobility platforms include our VX Series switches and our Quintum Series gateways. The VX Series – our voice exchange platform: The VX Series enables high-performance, secure VoIP communications. The VX Series is a fully-integrated multi-service voice switch, which can be deployed to integrate VoIP and VoIP-based systems into legacy voice network infrastructure. The VX Series extends advanced call system features from centralized voice systems to remote locations. With its remote survivability features, the VX Series provides continuous, local call service and intelligent trunk routing in the event of network connectivity failures. It can also be integrated into existing mission critical networks as well as deployed as the primary solution in green field applications. The VX Series supports advanced capabilities for government and enterprise customers. The system’s high call rates, security, and advanced protocol translation, along with industry standard interfaces, provides exceptional compatibility with the most sophisticated VoIP applications. To address needs of the U.S. Federal Government, the VX Series provides a VoIP-based secure voice solution with high bandwidth efficiency and call performance. A high bandwidth utilization rate is particularly important in expensive, limited bandwidth situations such as satellite links. The VX Series also enables the use of secure calls on IP networks. Our VX switches provide end-to-end, tactical-to-fixed site connectivity. Key features that enable high-quality secure voice calls include data compression, forward error correction, echo cancellation and jitter correction – all critical factors when operating in tactical, high-latency or unpredictable network environments. For tactical deployment, the VX Series is available in form factors small enough to fit into a backpack. The VX Series also has specific design elements that support unified communications. The VX Series enables unified communications on both legacy PBXs and IP-PBX’s, providing support for devices based on SIP, as well as unified communications and unified messaging. Our VX Series product line consists of the VX1800, VX1200, VX900, VX900T, and the VX400.The VX1800 is a relatively large capacity switch, supporting voice applications related to both the commercial and Federal markets. The VX1200 contains features at a cost point intended to satisfy the requirements of the enterprise UC market. The VX900 supports one to eight T1/E1 connections or 240 simultaneous voice calls, with support for Secure Telephone Unit (STU) phones. The VX900 chassis is one rack unit (1RU) high and the field-deployable VX900T is approximately half the size. The VX400 is the first deployment of our VX Series on DTECH LABS, Inc.’s second generation mobile VoIP hardware platform. Targeted at the tactical government, military and first-responder markets, the VX400 offers the functionality already available in our VX900, but is designed to support one to four tactical secure call users, plus data, over an IP-based satellite network infrastructure. Our VXe software release, introduced last fall, offers enhanced value to enterprise voice customers by reducing the network infrastructure footprint and lowering the operational and capital costs for UC deployments. This solution is suited to large enterprises with multi-site locations such as banks, retail stores, and professional services firms that typically have multi-site requirements. In fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008, our VX Series and predecessor products accounted for 22.3%, 19.8% and 29.2% of product revenue, respectively. SmartSIP product line – SIP for OCS: We recently acquired the SmartSIP software and customer base from Evangelyze Communications. SmartSIP, running on hybrid gateways or on a standalone server, allows standard SIP phones to be provisioned and used as extensions in a Microsoft OCS deployment. With SmartSIP, expected to be available early in fiscal 2011, an enterprise that has already invested in SIP phones or an IP-PBX and now considering a deployment of OCS, can use that equipment rather than purchasing new SIP phone systems. Quintum Series – our multipath VoIP gateways: Our Quintum platform addresses VoIP gateway technologies for small- to mid-sized businesses. Having similar architecture to our VX Series products, Quintum Series products support general business VoIP applications and are sold at lower price points than the VX Series. Like the VX Series, Quintum products support “any to any” multipath switching, provide branch office survivability, and are designed to simplify deploying VoIP applications into existing legacy voice networks. The Quintum products also have a broad set of interfaces and configurations that allow them to be integrated into nearly any type of existing voice network, supporting as few as two analog ports and as many as 32 T1/E1 trunks or 960 VoIP calls. Quintum products are sold into a variety of VoIP applications including: multi-office VoIP trunking, IP-PBX support and branch office gateways, service provider VoIP “customer premise equipment”, and now UC applications. We also have a number of relationships where these products support applications of major VoIP system and services vendors including Microsoft, Nortel, Avaya, NEC Sphere and others. In fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008, the Quintum Series accounted for 16.6%, 23.5% and less than 10% of product revenue, respectively. The VX Series and Quintum Series switches and gateways have been qualified under the Microsoft Unified Communications Open Interoperability Program for Microsoft Exchange Unified Messaging, Microsoft Office Communications Server 2007 and Microsoft Office Communications Server 2007 Release 2. Multi-service Networking Products Our multi-service networking platforms include Promina and the NX Series network exchange platforms. Promina – our established multi-service access platform: Our Promina family of multi-service access products integrates voice, data, image and video traffic across a single network infrastructure. The Promina platform, tailored to circuit-switched networks, provides mission-critical support for a wide variety of communications applications and traffic types, including ATM, frame relay, IP, and ISDN signaling. Promina products offer a broad range of user-side interfaces, enabling standards-based connection of communications equipment, whether located at a service provider’s switching facility or at an enterprise or government customer’s premises. The Promina platform features advanced network management services, which provide a high degree of visibility into network operations. For fault tolerance and high network reliability, our Promina products can be configured with redundant power, common logic, and trunk interfaces. These products incorporate distributed network intelligence that allows the network to quickly and automatically reroute traffic in the event of failure of a component. The Promina product family includes a range of systems for various node sizes, with various processor, application, and interface modules. We offer a broadband aggregation mechanism for Promina customers with the Promina Broadband Shelf, providing government customers with a broad range of ATM and IP technology. Our Promina networks are monitored and controlled by netMS, an integrated network management solution. We also offer an IP trunk interface for Promina, enabling direct IP connections to the Promina platform. In fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008, our Promina products, including the Promina Broadband Shelf, accounted for 38.6%, 44.9% and 57.0% of product revenue, respectively. The NX1000 Series – our IP-enabled multi-service platform: The NX1000, an extension of our Promina product line, provides a flexible, cost-effective IP aggregation solution that facilitates migration of legacy traffic to IP. It is fully interoperable with the existing Promina product line, delivering an all-new architecture and built-in capability to converge legacy applications onto an IP-based network while also providing four times the bandwidth of similarly sized Promina models. The NX1000 adds multi-service aggregation capabilities to the NX Series’ product line-up and is housed in a field-deployable, compact and lightweight chassis. It fits well into tactical and first-responder applications as well as supporting applications for high speed serial or legacy migration to IP, IP-based satellite transport, and tactical to fixed-site connectivity. The NX1000 also offers higher speed data interfaces, diskless data storage, and an optional rubidium atomic clock module to provide a high level of accuracy and synch ronization for bit synchronous applications over IP. The NX5000 Series – our high speed multi-service network exchange platform: The NX5000 Series products are high-performance networking platforms that provide high-grade data transfer between SANs and WANs and secure grid computing. Responding to increasing demand for secure, high speed, multi-service networking and LAN/SAN virtualization, NET partnered with Bay Microsystems, Inc. to develop an agile, high-speed exchange platform. This platform, the NX5000 Series, has speeds of 10 Gbps and the product architecture is scaleable to much higher speeds. The first product in our NX5000 Series, the NX5010 platform, is a next-generation, high speed multi-service aggregation and switching platform for mission-critical communications. This platform enables customers with geographically distributed computing and storage resources to connect as if they were co-located within the same LAN or data center and makes it possible to collapse into a single integrated system the multiple switches currently required to perform SAN to WAN communications. T he NX5010 significantly improves our customers’ ability to transfer large amounts of data throughout disparate networks on a single switch. Initially targeted at government and financial customers, the NX5010 also addresses our customers’ increasing need for secure, high speed, versatile networking. It is scalable and compact, with a very small footprint only two rack units high. The NX5010 has been tested in field trials using a variety of protocols, including InfiniBand, IP, Ethernet, and multiprotocol label switching. In fiscal 2010 and 2009, NX Series product sales accounted for 21.9% and 11.4% of product revenue, respectively. In fiscal 2008, the second year the NX Series products were made commercially available, sales accounted for less than 10% of total revenue. Customers and Markets NET is focused on the UC and secure communication markets, providing sophisticated network communications solutions to enterprises and government organizations worldwide. We pioneered multi-service networking and have been delivering this capability for more than 25 years. Our expertise is supporting the most demanding communications applications such as those that require high security, field reliability, high bandwidth or advanced features. Our customers are information and communication-intensive organizations, who may be local, national, or global in their operations. We identify our markets as two primary groups: government and enterprises. Government customers include but are not limited to U.S. defense and intelligence agencies, civilian agencies such as the Federal Aviation Administration and the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and international organizations such as NATO and foreign defense ministries, as well as resellers to such entities. We ta rget enterprise customers in a variety of sectors such as financial services, manufacturing, transportation, and retail. In recent fiscal years, commercial sales of our Promina-based solutions have mostly been sales in emerging markets such as Eastern Europe or upgrades to our installed base in Western Europe. Sales to the government sector represented 78.6%, 72.8% and 87.5% of NET’s revenue in fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. We do business with the government both as a direct contractor and as a subcontractor. A substantial portion of the revenue generated from our government customers is based on our contract with the General Services Administration (GSA), as well as through direct contracts such as with the Department of Defense and NATO. Some of these contracts may also be used by other government agencies. Our current GSA contract expires in July 2010. In fiscal 2010, General Dynamics Corporation accounted for 22.7% of NET’s revenue. These sales are included in the sales to the government sector. In fiscal 2009, no single customer accounted for more than ten percent of NET’s revenue. In fiscal 2008, ITT (formerly EDO Corporation), a government system integrator, and SPAWAR, a U.S. defense agency, accounted for 18.4% and 13.5%, respectively, of NET’s revenue. Excluding aggregate orders from a variety of government agencies, no other single customer accounted for more than ten percent of our revenue in fiscal 2010, 2009, or 2008. Our commercial revenue from international customers accounted for 13.8%, 9.8% and 6.9% of total revenue for fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Going forward, we believe our revenue growth in the enterprise markets will largely be driven by the acceptance of UC and other enterprise secure voice applications. As an incumbent supplier into Microsoft’s internal voice network, we are working closely with Microsoft and its key partners as they introduce new enterprise-focused unified communications and unified messaging products, of which our VX Series is a key enabler. Competition The market for telecommunications equipment is highly competitive and dynamic, has been characterized by rapid changes to and the convergence of technologies, and has seen a worldwide migration from existing circuit technology to packet-based IP technologies. We compete directly, both internationally and domestically, with many different companies, some of which are large established suppliers of end-to-end solutions such as Alcatel-Lucent, Avaya, Cisco Systems, Juniper Networks, Nortel, and Siemens. In addition to some of these large suppliers, a number of other smaller companies are targeting the same markets as we do. Particularly, in the UC market, Audiocodes Limited and Dialogic Corporation provide competitive solutions and are also partners with Microsoft. We believe our long operating history and strong balance sheet give us some of the advantages of larger businesses, while our small size and targeted focus give us some of the advantages of smaller com panies. Our larger competitors, however, have greater overall financial, marketing and technical resources than we do and offer a wider range of networking products than we offer and can often provide customers a complete network solution. They often can compete favorably on price because their sales volume and broad product lines can allow them to make discounted sales while maintaining acceptable overall profit margins. Conversely, our smaller competitors may have more ability than we do to focus their resources on a particular product development unencumbered by the requirements to support an existing product line, allowing greater flexibility in their market strategies. Sales We sell our products and services through both direct and indirect sales channels worldwide, including large government systems integrators. We support the sales force effort with systems engineers who provide customers with pre-sale and post-sale technical assistance which allows NET to gain more in-depth knowledge of customers’ network requirements. Our business is generally not seasonal, though we have been affected by delays in adoption of government entity budgets and spending patterns of the Federal Government at its September fiscal year end. We intend to make greater use of distributors and integrators in some markets, especially for the VX Series product line and as a result of the addition of Quintum’s worldwide indirect sales channel, have broadened our indirect channel. Our international sales, other than those made to foreign ministries of defense, are made through indirect channels that are augmented by the efforts of a local sales force. In addition to the marketing and sale of products, international resellers provide system installation and technical support. International resellers have non-exclusive agreements to resell NET products within particular geographic areas. Resale agreements do not contain a sales commitment or required sales quota. Backlog We manufacture our products based upon our forecast of customer demand, and we often build products in advance of receiving firm orders from our customers. Backlog is generated upon receipt of a valid customer purchase order. Orders for NET’s products are generally placed by customers on an as-needed basis, and we typically have been able to ship these products within 30 to 90 days after the customer submits a firm purchase order. As a U.S.-based company, we are required to give priority to Federal Government rated “defense-expedite” orders, which may cause the backlog of other customers’ orders to become delinquent. Because of the possibility of customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellation of orders, NET’s backlog as of any particular date may not be indicative of sales in any future period. Customer Service The markets, customers and complex challenges of the networking industry described above require support, service and other assistance in the development, operation and expansion of a customer network. We provide a wide range of global service and support options to customers and resellers of our products. Service offerings include product installation and other professional services, a choice of different hardware and software maintenance programs designed to meet the varying needs of our customers, parts repair, remote and on-site technical assistance, and customer training. In addition, NET provides web-based services to assist the self-directed efforts of more technically capable customers and partners. Our Technical Assistance Center (TAC), which is staffed by engineers trained in networking products, is set up to assist customers remotely over the telephone. TAC engineers have the ability to replicate customer problems and test proposed solutions prior to implementation. Maintenance support from TAC, whether provided over the web or over the telephone, is fee-based under either an annual fee contract or on a time-and-materials basis. Customer training on our products is provided to both end-users and resellers worldwide. We provide training both at NET facilities and at customer and reseller sites. Our training services can be customized to meet the special requirements of our customers. Customers are charged per person per class for training. We also offer a portfolio of computer-based training sessions for our products, which are licensed on an individual or site basis. Through a contractual arrangement with the Company, CACI International Inc. (CACI) has certain rights to provide maintenance and other services to the Company’s Federal customers. Under the current arrangement, both companies sell services for NET products, other than the Quintum Series products, and each company is responsible for various aspects of service delivery. CACI is responsible for maintenance support for first-level calls and on-site repairs, NET provides spares logistics and bug fixes; and both companies provide training services. Under a revenue-sharing arrangement, revenue from maintenance services is shared between both companies, regardless of which company sells the services. The receipts from sales of these services are shared based on a pre-determined percentage, which is currently 37% for NET and 63% for CACI but may be higher or lower based upon the total annual amount of sales of these services. As such, 63% of NET’s receipts th at are subject to the agreement is remitted to CACI, and conversely, 37% of CACI’s receipts that are subject to the agreement is remitted to the Company. Receipts from sales of training services are shared based on sales volumes but to date, training services revenues have not been significant for either NET or CACI. The Company records amounts derived from sales by NET as gross revenue and records amounts remitted to NET by CACI as net revenue. This arrangement expires December 1, 2010, after which the Company intends to perform these services itself and to retain the revenue associated with these services. Our Quintum Series product line is in large part sold through distributors, who generally perform service and support to the end customers. In fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008, service and support revenue accounted for 22.0%, 22.2% and 11.7%, respectively, of NET’s revenue. Manufacturing We outsource our product manufacturing. For the Promina, NX Series and VX Series, we outsource our manufacturing, including assembly and structural test, to our primary contract manufacturer, Plexus Corp. (Plexus) which is located in the U.S. For the Quintum Series product line, some manufacturing is performed by contract manufacturers in Asia and we perform final assembly and test at our own facilities in the U.S., China and Hong Kong. Each of our contract manufacturers is the sole vendor with whom we have contracted for the assemblies and finished goods they manufacture for us. Under our agreement with Plexus, which runs through December 31, 2011, we maintain a level of control over parts procurement, design, documentation, and selection of approved suppliers. We are generally liable for any termination or cancellation of product orders, as well as excess and obsolete material, which can result, for example, from an engineering change, product obsolescence, or inaccurate component forecasting. Under the agreement, Plexus is to procure raw materials and begin manufacturing of products in accordance with our forecasts. If certain purchased raw materials or certain work-in-process items are held for greater than 90 days, we must make deposits on the aging inventory, although Plexus must make efforts to minimize our liability for the aging inventory, including returning materials to suppliers, canceling orders with suppliers, or using materials to manufacture product for its other customers. If raw material or in-process inventories are still unused and have been held for more than nine months, we must take ownership and pay for the aged inventory. Alternatively, if there is forecasted demand for such inventory, we must pay a management fee for Plexus to retain such inventory. If the forecasted demand does not materialize we must take ownership and pay for such inventory. This activity may increase our owned inventories. At March 26, 2010, our deposit on inventory held by Plexus was $5.7 million, of which $1.7 million had been charged to a reserve for excess inventory. The deposit, including the related reserve, is included in prepaid expenses and other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company regularly evaluates its inventory, including inventory held by Plexus and the amount on deposit with Plexus. As a result of these evaluations, we recorded charges of $1.9 million and $5.2 million to cost of revenue in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. Several key components of our products are available only from a single source, including certain integrated circuits and power supplies. Depending upon the component, there may or may not be alternative sources or substitutes. Some of these components are purchased through purchase orders without an underlying long-term supply contract. Any delay or difficulty in obtaining needed components could seriously impact our ability to ship products. We attempt to maintain sufficient inventory to ship products quickly, normally within 30 to 90 days after receipt of an order. Scheduling of production and inventory supply is based on internal sales forecasts. Generally, our customer contracts allow the customers to reschedule delivery dates or cancel orders within certain time frames before shipment without penalty and outside those time frames with a penalty. Because of these and other factors, there are risks that excess or inadequate inventory levels could occur. We are focused on continually enhancing the quality of products and services delivered to customers worldwide. This includes improving the quality of supplied components, subassemblies and internal processes. As part of this continuing process, NET is ISO 9001:2008 registered. Research and Development We believe that our long-term success depends on our ability to maintain product and technology leadership. The networking equipment industry is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, enhancements to products currently in the market and constantly changing customer requirements. To compete effectively, NET must be able to bring new products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner and provide existing customers an attractive migration path to our newer products. Along with making continued investments in our internal research and development, we also enter into development agreements with other technology suppliers and may make strategic acquisitions to obtain needed technology and resources. We continually monitor relevant markets and our customers’ businesses and technology developments in order to develop products that proactively address customer needs. The majority of our research and development activity is focused on packet-based technologies, particularly VoIP and high-speed networking. While most product development activity is undertaken by NET employees, we enter into license and technology agreements to accelerate development of new products or expand the scope of development efforts, as well as outsource some of our product development activities. In fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008, NET’s research and development expenditures were $19.2 million, $21.8 million and $24.3 million, respectively. Employees As of March 26, 2010, we had 247 full-time employees. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We consider our employee relations to be good. Geographic Information See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. Intellectual Property We believe that the development of our intellectual property portfolio is central to our success and ability to compete effectively. We devote considerable resources to invent and develop new technologies and then to protect these technologies from unauthorized use. We have a program to seek protection of our proprietary technology under various protection frameworks such as patent, trade secret, trademarks and copyright protection. We seek protection in the United States and in select foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. We believe that ownership of patents, trade secrets, trademarks and copyrights is central to our ability to defend ourselves against intellectual property infringement allegations. We also seek to protect our inventions, trade secrets and other confidential information by non-disclosure policies. All of our employees and contractors sign confidentiality and invention disclosure agreements. Any person o utside NET receiving NET confidential information either signs a non-disclosure agreement prior to receiving proprietary technology information, is a licensee of NET, or is bound by a professional duty of confidentiality. Over the past twenty years, a number of patents have been issued to NET in the United States, Europe and Japan. In fiscal 2010, we were granted 12 U.S. patents, and now hold a total of 68 U.S. patents. These patents will expire between May 2010 and March 2027. We expect to continue filing patent applications as we develop new products and technologies. We have not historically pursued claims against other companies based on possible infringements of our patent portfolio, but we believe that our investment in intellectual property protection can offer defenses to claims against us and may provide an additional source of future revenue. For each of our product lines, we license some of our technology from third parties. Some of these licenses contain limitations on distribution of the licensed technology, are limited in duration, require royalty payments, or provide for expiration upon certain events such as a change in control of the company. The platform for our NX5000 Series product line was developed in partnership with a third party and includes key components manufactured by the third party. We paid a license acquisition fee for the technology and also pay a royalty on units sold pursuant to a license agreement with the third party. We are currently funding additional development of the platform under an amendment to the license agreement. Executive Officers The executive officers of NET and their ages at May 21, 2010 are as follows: Name Age Position C. Nicholas Keating, Jr. 68 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director James T. Fitzpatrick 56 Vice President of NET and President of NET Federal Talbot A. Harty 46 Vice President, Chief Development Officer and Chief Information Officer Francois P. Le 56 Vice President, Global Sales Pete Patel 57 Vice President, Global Operations Frank Slattery 49 Vice President and General Counsel David Wagenseller 53 Vice President and Chief Financial Officer C. Nicolas Keating, Jr. has served as NET’s President and CEO since July 2005 and as a Director of the Company since November 2001. From October 2000 to February 2004, Mr. Keating was President and CEO of IP Infusion, a software developer and licensor of advanced networking software for enhanced IP services. Previously, he was President and CEO of US SEARCH.com, a Web-based provider of on-line information services to individual, corporate and professional users. From 1993 to 1998, he was an advisor to a number of worldwide organizations, including AT&T and Lucent Technologies. From 1987 to 1993, he was a Vice President and corporate officer of NET. Mr. Keating is a member of the Board of Trustees of the Asian Art Museum Foundation of San Francisco and is a San Francisco City Commissioner and Vice Chair of the Asian Art Commission. He is also on the Board of Trustees of American University in Washington, D.C. Mr. Keating received his BA and MA f rom American University and was a Fulbright Scholar to Mexico. Prior to his business career, Mr. Keating worked in the State and Commerce Departments in international positions and served as a First Lieutenant in the United States Army. James T. Fitzpatrick joined NET in April 2009 as President of NET Federal and an officer of the Company. Prior to joining the Company, he was Vice President of Federal Sales for Ericsson Federal (formerly Marconi Federal). At Marconi Federal, he oversaw channel sales and partner programs and was in charge of business development. Mr. Fitzpatrick previously held senior management positions at NCR and AT&T, in the areas of sales, marketing, business development and large scale program management, along with legal, financial and contract management. Mr. Fitzpatrick earned a bachelor’s degree from Marquette University and a law degree from the University of Baltimore, and did additional graduate studies in Information Technology at Johns Hopkins University. Talbot A. Harty joined NET in November 2003 and assumed the role of Vice President, Chief Development Officer and Chief Information Officer in October 2005. He previously served as Sr. Director of the Company’s Information Technology organization. From 2002 until he joined NET, Mr. Harty was Vice President of Product Development at Perfect Commerce, a provider of on-demand supplier relationship management solutions. From 2000 to 2001, he served as Vice President of Product Marketing at Mobileum (now Roamware), a provider of value-added voice and data roaming services. Prior to that, he held senior positions in information technology, operations, and research and development at a number of high-technology companies. He also sits on technology advisory boards for a number of start-up companies. Francois P. Le joined NET in 2008 as Vice President, Global Sales. Prior to joining the Company, he was Vice President of Carriers and International Sales at Tropos Networks, the market leader in delivering metro-scale Wi-Fi mesh networks. Previously, Mr. Le was Vice President of Worldwide Sales for Aperto Networks, a supplier of WiMAX broadband wireless networks, where he started sales and extended the customer base into more than 50 countries and 150 operators. Prior to that, Mr. Le was Director of Product Marketing and Business Development for WAN access products at 3Com Corporation and Vice President of International Sales with Multipoint Networks. Earlier, he held Sales Director responsibilities at NET for Europe and later Asia-Pacific and Latin America. Mr. Le holds an MBA from the Stanford Graduate School of Business and an engineering diploma from the National Institute of Applied Sciences in Lyon, France. Pete Patel joined NET in April 2008. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Patel held a senior management position at Xirrus, Inc., a provider of next generation wireless LAN architecture. Previously, at Occam Networks, Advanced Fibre Communications, and Ericsson, Mr. Patel held various senior management positions including Vice President of Operations, Director of Operations, Director of Design Verification and Test Engineering, and Senior Test Engineering Manager. Mr. Patel holds an F.Y.B.Sc. in science from Gujarat University, India and a B.V.Sc. and A.H. from Gujarat Agricultural University, India. Frank Slattery joined NET in February 2003. In addition to serving as General Counsel, he is the Corporate Secretary and oversees corporate governance matters. Mr. Slattery has been a business lawyer for technology companies since 1989, when he began his legal career at the firm of Wilson, Sonsini, Goodrich & Rosati. Prior to joining NET, he served in legal and senior management positions for a number of computer software and internet services companies, including SiteSmith, an internet infrastructure services provider, which was acquired by Metromedia Fiber Networks; USWeb, an internet services company; and ParcPlace Systems, a software tools developer. Mr. Slattery holds a BA in Economics and a JD from the University of California, Davis. David Wagenseller joined NET in 1986 through its acquisition of ComDesign, Inc. He holds responsibility for Controllership, Treasury and Financial Planning at NET. He has held positions of increasing responsibility throughout his tenure with the Company. Mr. Wagenseller earned a Bachelor’s degree in Accounting from California State University, Dominquez Hills. Where You Can Find More Information We make our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to such reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, available free of charge on or through our Internet website located at www.net.com or the SEC’s website located at www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document we file at the SEC’s public reference room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at (800) SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room. Stockholders may also access and download free of charge our corporate governance documents, including our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee Charters, and Code of Business Conduct, on or through this Internet website. In addition, any stockholder who wishes to obtain a printed copy of any of these documents sho uld write to: Investor Relations, NET, 6900 Paseo Padre Parkway, Fremont, California 94555. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to the risks and uncertainties described below. Although we have tried to identify the material risks to our business, this is not an all-inclusive list. There may be additional risks that have not yet been identified and risks that are not material now but could become material. Any one of these risks could hurt our business, results of operations or financial condition. We have incurred net losses in the past and may incur losses in the future. With the exception of fiscal 2008, we have we incurred net losses since fiscal 1998, including in fiscal 2010. Our circuit-switched product line, Promina, currently provides a substantial portion of our revenue, and the market for that product line is declining. In order for the Company to be profitable in future periods, we need our newer products to achieve commercial success. Any shortfall in revenue compared to our annual financial plan would likely require that we reduce spending, though many of our costs are fixed in the short term making it difficult to reduce spending rapidly. Reductions in research and development spending will impede the development of new products and product enhancements, which would in turn negatively affect future revenue. Our operating results may continue to fluctuate. Our operating results vary significantly from quarter to quarter. These fluctuations may result from a number of factors, including: · changes in demand for our products, which may result from changes in customer needs, features available in our products, competition, changes in industry standards, and other factors; · the timing of orders from, and shipments to, our customers; · the timing of the introduction of, and market acceptance for, new products and services; · variations in the mix of products and services we sell; · the timing and level of certain expenses, such as joint venture and development arrangements, acquisition-related costs, prototype costs, legal fees, write-offs of obsolete inventory, or adjustments to accounting estimates made in previous periods; · the timing of revenue recognition, which depends on numerous factors, such as contractual acceptance provisions and separability of arrangements involving multiple elements, including some factors that are out of our control, such as assurance as to collectability; · the timing and amounts of stock-based awards to employees; · the timing and size of Federal Government budget approvals and spending, and timing of government deployment schedules; · the timing of gain and loss related to our investment portfolio, retirement of debt, or foreign currency transactions; and · economic conditions in the networking industry, including the overall capital expenditures of our customers. Due to the foregoing factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily a good indication of our future performance. Any shortfall in revenue may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Investors should not rely on our results or growth for one quarter as any indication of our future performance. Our stock price is volatile and could decline substantially. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past, will likely continue to fluctuate in the future and may decline. Fluctuations or a decline in our stock price may occur regardless of our performance. Among the factors that could affect our stock price, in addition to our performance, are: · variations between our operating results and either the guidance we have furnished to the public or the published expectations of securities analysts; · changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts following our business; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new products or services, acquisitions, or other significant transactions; · the issuance by us of common stock or other securities in the future; · the inclusion or exclusion of our stock in various indices or investment categories; · changes in the stock prices of other telecommunications equipment companies, to the extent that some investors tend to buy or sell our stock based on segment trends; · the trading volume of our common stock; and · repurchases we make of our common stock or early retirement of debt. We may engage in acquisitions or similar transactions that could disrupt our operations, cause us to incur substantial expenses, result in dilution to our stockholders and harm our business if we cannot successfully integrate the acquired business, products, technologies or personnel. Our growth is dependent upon market growth and our ability to enhance our existing products and introduce new products on a timely basis. We have addressed and are likely to continue to address the need to introduce new products through both internal development and through acquisitions of other companies and technologies that would complement our business or enhance our technological capability. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: · adverse effects on existing customer relationships, such as cancellation of orders or the loss of key customers; · difficulties in integrating or retaining key employees of the acquired company; · difficulties in integrating the operations of the acquired company, such as information technology resources, manufacturing processes, and financial and operational data; · entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; · difficulties in assimilating product lines or integrating technologies of the acquired company into our products; · disruptions to our operations; · diversion of our management’s attention; · potential incompatibility of business cultures; · potential dilution to existing stockholders if we issue shares of common stock or other securities as consideration in an acquisition or to finance acquisitions; · limitations on the use of net operating losses; · negative market perception, which could negatively affect our stock price; · the assumption of debt and other liabilities, both known and unknown; and · additional expenses associated with the amortization of intangible assets or impairment charges related to purchased intangibles and goodwill, or write-offs, if any, recorded as a result of the acquisition. We are dependent on revenue from the Promina product line. Currently, we derive a significant portion of our product revenue from our Promina product line, a circuit-based narrowband technology. The market for our Promina product is declining as networks increasingly employ packet-based broadband technology. This technology migration resulted in a significant drop in sales of our Promina products over the last several years. If we are unable to develop substantial revenue from our newer packet-based broadband product lines, our business and results of operations will suffer. Although we have developed a migration path to broadband technology and have entered and expect to enter into development agreements with third parties to expand our broadband offerings, this strategy may not materially mitigate this decline. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from sales to governmental agencies. A significant portion of our total revenue from product sales comes from contracts with governmental agencies, most of which do not include long-term purchase commitments. Historically, the government has been slower to adopt new technology, such as packet-based technology, which has had the effect of extending the product life of our Promina product. While the government has purchased and is evaluating some of our new products for broader deployment, this new business may not develop quickly or be sufficient to offset future declines in sales of our Promina product. If the government accelerated adoption of new technology and replaced the Promina product line in their networks with products other than ours, our product revenue would decline further. We face significant competition in obtaining future contracts with the government. If we fail in developing new products and successfully selling them to our government customers, our revenue will suffer and we ma y not be profitable. The Federal Government has issued specific requirements for IP networking products to incorporate a technology referred to as “IPv6” and requires products destined for use in military applications be certified by the Joint Interoperability Test Command (JITC). If we are unable to complete development efforts necessary to support IPv6 within the timeframes required by the Federal Government or are unable to obtain JITC certifications as needed, our government sales, and hence our revenue and results of operations, may suffer. A substantial portion of the revenue generated from our government customers is based on our contract with the GSA, which is up for renewal in fiscal year 2011. This contract imposes significant compliance and reporting obligations on us. The contract also establishes a fixed price under which government customers may purchase our products and provides for automatic mandatory price reductions upon certain events. In addition, the GSA can impose financial penalties for non-compliance, such as those we were subject to following the government’s post-award review of our commercial and government sales activity in the period 2001 to 2005. Through an agreement resulting from the sale of our federal services business to CACI, CACI and NET share responsibility for maintenance and other services to our customers. If for any reason our mutual customers are unsatisfied with the services, it could adversely affect sales of our products and services. Our success depends on our ability to develop new products and product enhancements that will achieve market acceptance. Our operating results will depend on the successful design, development, testing, introduction, marketing, and broad commercial distribution of our newer IP-based products, as well as successful evolution of our Promina product line incorporating packet-based technology. The success of these products is dependent on several factors, including proper product definition, competitive pricing, timely completion and introduction to the market, differentiation from competitors’ products, and broad market acceptance. Successful introduction of new products also requires the development of relevant expertise in our product support organization. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and evolving methods of building and operating networks. We may not successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner, or achieve market acceptance of our products. Our products and product enhancements are increasingly designed as elements of a solution involving products and technologies being developed by third parties, and the success of our products will therefore be affected by the availability and success of the third party products. At the same time, products and technologies developed by others may render our products or technologies obsolete or non-competitive, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to achieve profitability. Gross margins could decline over future periods. Gross margins may be adversely affected in the future due to increases in material and labor costs, increases in subcontractor charges, changes in the mix of products and services we sell, increased sales through resellers, increased warranty costs, or pressure on pricing and margins due to competition. As we introduce new products, our overall gross margins may decline, as new products typically have lower gross margins than established products, as a result of customary discounting for early customers and higher per-unit costs associated with low purchase volumes of components. A decline in our gross margins could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Litigation may materially adversely affect our business. Existing and future litigation may result in monetary damages, injunctions against future product sales and substantial unanticipated legal costs and may divert the efforts of management personnel, any and all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations in foreign countries are subject to political, economic and regulatory risks. We conduct sales and customer support operations in countries outside of the United States and depend on non-U.S. operations of our subsidiaries and distribution partners. As a general rule, international sales tend to have risks that are difficult to foresee and plan for, including political and economic stability, possible expropriation, regulatory changes, changes in currency exchange rates, difficulties in protecting our intellectual property, changes in tax rates and structures, and collection of accounts receivable. Further, our international markets are served primarily by non-exclusive resellers and distributors who themselves may be severely affected by economic or market changes within a particular country or region. For sales within the European Union, our products must comply with the Restriction on Hazardous Substances Directive (RoHS) and Waste from Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) requirements, any failure of which could result in fine s, product seizures, or injunctions against sale. We are subject to U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including, but not limited to the Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”), International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”), and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) of the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Under these laws and regulations, we are responsible for obtaining all necessary licenses or other approvals, if required, for exports of hardware, software and technology, as well as the provision of service. For some of our products subject to EAR, the requirement for a license is dependent on the type and end use of the product, the final destination, the identity of the end user, and whether a license exception might apply. Obtaining export licenses can be difficult and time-consuming, and in some instances a license may not be available on a timely basis or at all. A determination by the U.S. government that we have failed to comply with one or more export control laws or trade sanctions, could result in civil or criminal penalties, including the imposition of significant fines, denial of export privileges, loss of revenues from certain customers, and debarment from participation in U.S. government contracts. Any one or more of these sanctions or a change in law or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market for our products is highly competitive and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. The market for networking equipment is highly competitive and dynamic, has been characterized by rapid technological changes and shifting customer requirements, and has seen a worldwide migration from existing circuit technology to the new packet-based technologies. We compete directly, both internationally and domestically, with many different companies, some of which are large, established suppliers of end-to-end solutions, such as Alcatel-Lucent, Avaya, Cisco Systems, Juniper Networks, and Siemens AG. In addition to some of these large suppliers, a number of other smaller companies are targeting the same markets as we are. Particularly, in the unified communications market, Audiocodes Limited and Dialogic Corporation provide competitive solutions and are also partners with Microsoft. Our larger competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing and technical resources than we have, offer a wider range of networking products than we offer, and can often provide a complete network solution. They are often able to devote greater resources to the development, marketing and sale of their products and to use their equity or significant cash reserves to acquire other companies with technology and/or products that compete directly with ours. They often can compete favorably on price because their sales volume and broad product lines can allow them to make discounted sales while maintaining acceptable overall profit margins. The smaller companies have more ability than we do to focus their resources on a particular product development unencumbered by the requirements to support an existing product line. As a result of the flexibility of their market strategies, our competitors may be able to obtain strategic advantages that may adversely a ffect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the networking equipment market has seen the constant introduction of new technologies that have reduced the value of older technology solutions. This has created pricing pressure on older products while increasing the performance expectations of newer networking equipment. Moreover, broadband technology standards are constantly evolving, and alternative technologies or technologies with greater capability are constantly introduced and sought by our customers. It is possible that the introduction of other technologies will either supplant our current technologies and technologies we have in development, or will require us to significantly lower our prices in order to remain competitive. To remain competitive, we must continue to evolve our product lines to meet the ever-changing technology needs of the networking market while ensuring that they can be sold at a competitive price. We also must enhance our Promina product line to provide needed feat ures that increase its overall value for the customer while keeping the price competitive. Due to the competitive nature of the market and the relative age of our Promina product offerings as well as the competitive pressure affecting all our products, we may not be able to maintain prices for them at levels that will sustain profitability. Also, we may not be successful in completing the development of, or commercializing, products under development. If we are unable to sign competitive resale partners, our future product and service revenue will be adversely affected. Our international sales, other than those made to foreign ministries of defense (MoDs), are made through indirect channels that include distributors and resellers worldwide, and our business strategy includes leveraging resale partners in the United States. In addition, many of our target customers, including the government, rely on systems integrators to incorporate new equipment or services into their networks. While we have begun the process of identifying and signing software application, system integrator and OEM or resale partners, more partners are necessary in these areas for us to be successful. We may also need to pursue strategic partnerships with vendors who have broader technology or product offerings in order to compete with the end-to-end solution providers. In addition, many of the enterprise markets we are pursuing require a broad network of resale partners in order to achieve effective distribution. Failure to sign up new reseller and strateg ic partners, or to implement business processes and services needed to adequately support the distribution channel, could affect our ability to grow overall revenue. Our sales through systems integrators typically involve the use of our products as components of a larger solution being implemented by the systems integrator. In these instances, the purchase and sale of our product is dependent on the systems integrator, who typically controls the timing, prioritization, and implementation of the project. Project delays, changes in priority, or solution re-design decisions by the systems integrator can adversely affect our product sales. Our products have long sales cycles, making it difficult to predict when a customer will place an order and when to forecast revenue from the related sale. Many of our products are complex and represent a significant capital expenditure to our customers. The purchase of our products can have a significant effect on how a customer designs its network and provides services either within its own organization or to an external customer. Consequently, our customers often engage in extensive testing and evaluation of products before purchase. There are also numerous financial and budget considerations and approvals that a customer often must obtain before it will issue a purchase order. As a result, the length of our sales cycle can be quite long, extending beyond twelve months in some cases. We have little visibility into the sales pipelines of resellers, which adds to the difficulty of accurately forecasting revenue. In addition, our customers, including resellers, often have the contractual right to delay scheduled order delivery dates with minimal penalties and to cancel orders within specified time frames without penalty, which makes it difficult to predict whether or not an order may actually ship. We often must incur substantial sales and marketing expense to ensure a purchase order is placed. If orders are not placed in the quarter forecasted, our sales may not meet forecast and revenue may be insufficient to meet expenses. Because it is difficult for us to accurately forecast sales, particularly within a given time frame, we face a risk of having too much or too little inventory. Typically, the majority of our revenue in each quarter has resulted from orders received and shipped in that quarter. While we do not believe that backlog is necessarily indicative of future revenue levels, our customers’ ordering patterns and the possible absence of backlogged orders create a significant risk that we could carry too much or too little inventory if orders do not match forecasts. Rather than base forecasts on orders received, we have been forced to schedule production and commit to certain expenses based more upon forecasts of future sales, which are difficult to predict. We are generally liable for excess component inventory and unsold product assemblies that our contract manufacture orders or assembles based on our forecasts. If large orders do not close when forecasted or if near-term demand weakens for the products we have available to ship, we will have expenses with no corresponding revenue and our operating results for that quarter or subsequent quarters would be materially adversely affected. At the same time, we may face shortages that preclude us from fulfilling orders that are not in our forecast, as a result of lead times for component procurement and manufacturing. If there is an unexpected decrease in demand for certain products or there is an increased risk of inventory obsolescence, which can happen relatively quickly due to rapidly changing technology and customer requirements, adjustments may be required to write down or write off certain inventory, which would adversely affect our operating results. Delays in government programs or other customer ordering could cause products or product versions to become obsolete sooner than forecasted, which could result in substantial write-downs. Delays in customer orders may span release schedules for new versions of our products, such that orders we expected to fulfill with one version may become orders for the next version. As a result, we may end up with less demand for the earlier version than forecasted, which could result in us holding obsolete inventory for the product. We have already established a substantial reserve for some of the inventory balance related to the NX5010 but we also have significant unreserved inventory balances on hand and owned by our contract manufacturer. Substantial charges for the write-down or write-off of obsolete inventory would adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to attract, recruit and retain key personnel, then we may not be able to successfully manage our business. Our success continues to be dependent on our being able to attract and retain highly skilled engineers, managers and other key employees. In most cases, we face significant competition for the most qualified personnel for new positions and to replace departing employees. If we are not able to continue to attract, recruit and retain key personnel, particularly in engineering and sales and marketing positions, we may be unable to meet important company objectives such as product delivery deadlines and sales targets. Over that past several years, we have restructured our organization and we plan ongoing process improvement and rigorous vendor management, any of which may cause disruptions to our business. In fiscal 2010, we reorganized a number of functions and continue to seek additional ways to reduce costs and improve efficiencies, such as changes to our internal business processes and transitions to different vendors or service providers. We are establishing an arrangement with another contract manufacturer and we may transition other outsourced functions, or may outsource additional functions. These various activities are subject to a number of risks, such as diversion of management time and resources; diminished ability to respond to customer requirements, both as to products and services; and disruption of our engineering and manufacturing processes. Further, despite our efforts, the savings we expect from these actions may not be achieved, or may be achieved only after an initial increase in costs. Problems resulting from these reorganization activities, such as potential challenges maintaining our business systems and operating infrastructure, could ha ve a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition, particularly if coupled with a failure to achieve the expected cost savings. In addition, changes to our business processes may require revisions to our internal controls, and may make it more difficult for us to achieve certification of our internal control over financial reporting. Our ability to ship our products in a timely manner is dependent on the availability of component parts and other factors. Several key components of our products are available only from a single source, including certain integrated circuits and power supplies. Depending upon the component, there may or may not be alternative sources or substitutes. Some components are purchased through purchase orders without an underlying long-term supply contract, and some components are in short supply generally throughout the industry. If a required component were no longer available, we might have to significantly reengineer the affected product. Further, variability in demand and cyclical shortages of capacity in the semiconductor industry have caused lead times for ordering parts to increase from time to time. Delays may occur as a result of factors beyond our control, including weather-related delays. If we encounter shortages or delays in receiving ordered components or if we are not able to accurately forecast our ordering requirements, we may be unable to ship ordered products in a time ly manner, resulting in decreased revenue. In some instances, our product development efforts are based on component parts, such as integrated circuits, still under development by third-parties. Any delay or failure by the third-party provider to complete and release such a component, which is generally beyond our control, would cause delays or an inability for us to complete and ship the product that is based on the component, which would adversely affect our revenue. Generally, our customer contracts allow the customers to reschedule delivery dates or cancel orders within certain time frames before shipment without penalty and outside those time frames with a penalty. Because of these and other factors, there are risks of excess or inadequate inventory that could negatively affect our expenses, revenue and earnings. Additionally, defense expedite (DX)-rated orders from the Federal Government, which by law receive priority, can interrupt scheduled shipments to our other customers. We outsource our product manufacturing. We outsource our product manufacturing, including most assembly and structural test, as well as functional test, systems integration, and order fulfillment functions, though we generally remain liable for inventory of components and finished material. Any difficulties or failures to perform by the contract manufacturer could cause delays in customer product shipments or otherwise negatively affect our results of operations. We also share responsibility for inventory management and production planning with the contract manufacturer, which may increase the risks of carrying too much or too little inventory of either component parts or manufactured product. We have agreed to compensate our contract manufacturer in the event of termination or cancellation of orders, discontinuance of product, or excess material. Also, should the contract manufacturer in some future period decide not to renew our contract with it, or should we experience any failure to perform or other difficulties with the contract manufacturer, it would be difficult for us to quickly transfer our manufacturing requirements to another vendor, likely causing substantial delays in customer product shipments and adversely affecting our revenue and results of operations. As inventory ages, we may be required to make substantial deposits with or purchases from our contract manufacturer. As part of our arrangement with our contract manufacturer, we are required to make deposits on certain purchased raw materials held for greater than 90 days and certain work-in-process items held for greater than 60 days, although the contract manufacturer must make efforts to minimize our liability for this inventory, including returning materials to suppliers, canceling orders with suppliers or using materials to manufacture product for its other customers. Raw material and in-process inventories that are unused and have been held for more than nine months require us to take ownership, or, at a minimum, pay a management fee assuming there is future forecasted demand for those inventories. Further, if anticipated demand for inventories does not materialize in future periods, we are required to take ownership of those associated inventories. We have substantial amounts of inventory at our contract manufacturer, and have already made significant deposits on som e of the inventory. Additional deposits may be required in the future and if the inventory continues to remain on hand, we may be required to purchase the inventory underlying the deposit and adjustments may be required to write down or write off this inventory, any of which would adversely affect our operating results. Our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to protect our business. Our future success depends in part upon our proprietary technology. Although we attempt to establish and maintain rights in proprietary technology and products through patents, copyrights, and trade secrets laws, we cannot predict whether such protection will be adequate or whether our competitors can develop similar technology independently without violating our proprietary rights. As competition in the communications equipment industry increases and the functionality of the products in this industry further overlap, we believe that companies in the communications equipment industry may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. We have received and may continue to receive notice from third parties, including some of our competitors, claiming that we are infringing their patents or their other proprietary rights. To settle such claims, we may enter into licensing arrangements requiring us to pay a royalty to the third party. We cannot predict whether we will prevail in any litigation over third-party claims or that we will be able to license any valid and infringed patents on commercially reasonable terms. Any of these claims, whether with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, divert our management’s time, attention and resources, delay our product shipments or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. In addition, a third party may not be willing to enter into a royalty or licensing agreement on acceptable terms, if at all. If a claim of product infringement against us is successful and we fail to obtain a license or develop or license non-infringing technology, we may be unable to market the affected product. Although we have a number of patent applications pending, we cannot guarantee that any will result in the issuance of a patent. Even if issued, the patent may later be found to be invalid or may be infringed without our knowledge. Our issued patents might not be enforceable against competitive products in every jurisdiction, and it is difficult to monitor unauthorized use of our proprietary technology by others. Regardless of our efforts to protect our intellectual property, the rapidly changing technologies in the networking industry make our future success primarily a function of the skill, expertise and management abilities of our employees. Nonetheless, others may assert property rights to technologies that are relevant to our currently marketed products or our products under development. If our protected proprietary rights are challenged, invalidated or circumvented, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and sales of our prod ucts. Conversely, if other parties are infringing our patents, we may pursue claims against them in order to yield value attributable to our technology. Such claims could involve costly litigation, could divert our management’s time and resources, and could result in counterclaims challenging rights to other technology used by us. We rely on technologies licensed from third parties. For each of our product lines, we license some of our technology from third parties. Some of these licenses contain limitations on distribution of the licensed technology, are limited in duration, or provide for expiration upon certain events, such as a change in control of the company. If the relevant licensing agreement expires or is terminated without our being able to renew that license on commercially reasonable terms or if we cannot obtain a license for our products or enhancements on our existing products, we may be unable to market the affected products or may be liable for monetary damages. Our license arrangements are generally not exclusive to us. Our license for a third-party technology, or any exclusivity thereto, may be limited in territory or scope. We generally pay an ongoing royalty for licensed technology, which can restrict our ability to manage costs of the product, leaving us more vulnerable to competition from others, including potentiall y the licensor itself. For many of these technologies, we rely on the third-party providers to update and maintain the technology, fixing errors and adding new features. If the third-party providers do not adequately update and maintain these technologies, whether due to changes in their product direction, their own financial difficulties, or other reasons, we would need to seek alternative means to fulfill the ongoing requirements for our products that incorporate the third-party technology. If we are unable to find alternative means of fulfilling the ongoing requirements, we may be unable to market the affected products. We outsource some of our product development activities, which carries inherent risks such as reduced ability to control the timing and quality of the work product, uncertain continuity and availability of skills and knowledge, difficulties of managing and integrating the third-party development, and potential disputes over intellectual property. To the extent we use parties located in overseas jurisdictions, the intellectual property provided to or developed by the third party may, depending on the laws of the jurisdiction, be subject to weaker or significantly different intellectual property protection. In using third parties for product development, we must share with them and will receive from them various intellectual property, which increases the risk of misuse of our intellectual property, as well as the risk that the resulting product might contain items that infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Many of our sales depend on our achieving third-party certifications for our products. In several markets for our products, we must achieve various certifications from third parties in order to obtain sales of those products. For example, sales of unified communications products often require certification of interoperability with other vendors’ products; sales to the Federal government of products destined for use in military applications must be certified by the JITC; and international sales may depend on standards established by telecommunications authorities in various countries. These certification processes can be lengthy and often require the commitment of another vendor’s or agency’s personnel and test equipment, and we compete with other suppliers for these resources. Even after achieving a particular certification, we may be required to re-certify our products as technologies evolve and other vendors’ products are updated. Any delays in obtaining these certifications or failure to obtain these certifications could a dversely affect our ability to sell our products. The market for some of our products depends on the availability and demand for other vendors’ products. Some of our products, particularly those addressing the unified communications market, are designed to function with other vendors’ products. In these cases, demand for our products is dependent upon the availability, demand for, and sales of the other vendors’ products, as well as the degree to which our products successfully interoperate with the other vendors’ products and add value to the solution being provided to the customer. If the other vendors change the design of their products, delay the issuance of new releases, fail to adequately market their products, or are otherwise unsuccessful in building a market for their products, the demand for our products will be adversely affected. We face risks associated with changes in regulations and tariffs, including regulation of the Internet. Changes in domestic and international telecommunications equipment requirements could affect the sales of our products. In the United States, our products must comply with various FCC requirements and regulations. In countries outside of the United States, our products must sometimes meet various requirements of local telecommunications authorities. Changes in tariffs or failure by us to obtain timely approval of products could affect our ability to market the affected product. New restrictions on trade, such as in response to transfers of jobs from the United States to lower-cost foreign locations, could limit our ability to purchase components from, or outsource functions to, foreign entities, which would likely make it more difficult to maintain competitiveness in the global market. As a result of our current concentration of business to the Federal Government, we are more sensitive to these trade restrictions, whether tariffs, incentives, or government purchasing requirements such as the “Buy American Act,” than we would be with a more diversified customer base. Changes in other laws and regulations, or changes in their interpretation or enforcement, such as confidentiality requirements under the federal privacy laws, California’s state wage and hour laws, or employment regulations in foreign jurisdictions, impose additional costs and potential liabilities on us. We are exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currency. As a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse affect on our financial results. We use foreign exchange contracts to hedge significant accounts receivable and intercompany account balances denominated in foreign currencies. Although we have established foreign exchange contracts for non-dollar denominated sales and operating expenses in the United Kingdom, France, and Japan, exposures remain for non-dollar denominated operating expenses in Asia and Latin America. We will continue to monitor our exposure and may hedge against these or any other emerging market currencies as necessary. Market value gains and losses on hedge contracts are substantially offset by fluctuations in the underlying balances being hedged. We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our investment portfolio. Although we have not experienced any material losses on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, future declines in their market values could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our investment policy requires our investments to have a credit rating of single-A or better, with asset backed securities rated triple A. Although our portfolio has no auction rate or sub-prime mortgage securities, our overall investment portfolio is presently and may in the future be concentrated in the financial sector, which includes cash equivalents such as money market funds. If any of these issuers default on their obligations, or their credit ratings are negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, financial results, or other factors, the value of our cash equivalents and short-term investments could decline and result in a material impairment. The location of our facilities subjects us to the risk of earthquake and floods. Our corporate headquarters, including most of our research and development operations, are located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. These facilities are located near the San Francisco Bay where the water table is quite close to the surface and where tenants have experienced water intrusion problems in the facilities nearby. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake or flood, could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Any material weakness or significant deficiency identified in our internal controls could have an adverse effect on our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that companies evaluate and report on their internal control structure and procedures over financial reporting. In addition, our independent accountants must report annually on management’s evaluation as well as evaluate our internal control structure and procedures. Due to the ongoing evaluation and testing of our internal controls, there could be significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that would be required to be reported in the future. In addition, the evaluation process and any required remediation, if applicable, may increase our accounting, legal and other costs, and may divert management resources from other business objectives and concerns. Further, in the third quarter of fiscal 2008 we replaced our “enterprise resource planning” software, which is part of our control environment, and which we use to process sales, prepare our financial reports, and perform other critical business processes. Any failure of the new system could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, and stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 