Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholders Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Signatures PART I Forward-Looking Statements Statements contained in this Form 10-K other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws that relate to future events or our future financial performance. A forward-looking statement may contain words such as “plans,” “hopes,” “believes,” “estimates,” “will,” “continue to,” “expect to,” “anticipate that,” “to be,” or “can affect.” Forward-looking statements are based upon management expectations, forecasts and assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results, events or company performance to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Many factors may cause actual results to vary including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in this Form 10-K. We expressly disclaim any obligation or undert aking to revise or publicly release any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained in this Form 10-K. Investors should carefully review the risk factors described in this document along with other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Network Equipment Technologies, Inc. (N.E.T.), founded in 1983, is a global provider of networking technology platforms. Our multiservice wide area networking (WAN) products, comprising the Promina product line, provide a platform that delivers extremely efficient bandwidth utilization on narrowband, circuit-switched networks and is tailored to highly reliable and secure communications. In response to the growth of broadband networks using packet-switching technologies and the Internet protocol (IP), we have added new platforms to our product offering. Our VX Series, the next evolution of our SHOUT product line, provides a flexible IP-telephony platform supporting a variety of voice capabilities, such as long-distance voice over Internet protocol (VoIP). Our SCREAM product line integrates IP and legacy-network functionality along with Ethernet aggregation to provide an easy-to-deploy migration and aggregation option for existing narrow band networks. These platforms are designed for extensive compatibility and interoperability with legacy networks and other vendors’ equipment, enabling enterprises, governments and carriers to take advantage of the cost savings and productivity gains of next-generation networking equipment while increasing the return on investment in existing infrastructure. The Promina product line, which is now purchased mostly by government customers, has continued to provide the majority of our revenue in recent years. We have experienced a significant decline in revenue from the Promina products in the last two fiscal years as customers continue to move away from narrowband, circuit-switched networking to IP-based communications. We believe that our growth opportunities lie in our newer products that allow entities to migrate existing networks to IP while ensuring interoperability and providing specific mobility and security features required by government entities. Our VX Series products enable entities to immediately achieve the cost savings available from VoIP while continuing to use their existing private branch exchange (PBX) systems, avoiding the greater capital expense, training costs, and loss of features that would generally accompany complete replacement with a new IP-based PBX (IP PBX). For networks based on asynchronous transfer mode (ATM), SCREAM offers an ATM-to-IP migration solution. Our SCREAMlink program provides government entities that are ATM-dominant to continue to leverage investments in the Promina line as they migrate to IP. During fiscal 2006, we entered into a license and development agreement with a supplier of advanced integrated circuits to bring new N.E.T. products to market in a short time frame. We are using the high-performance networking platform developed by the supplier as the basis for network exchange products that provide high-speed data transfer between storage area networks (SAN) and wide area networks (WAN) and secure grid computing. These products are intended to address customer needs in the government, supercomputing, and carrier markets. We have recently announced plans for the first product based on this technology, named the NX 5010ae. We have a worldwide customer base that includes governmental entities, enterprise customers, and telecommunications service providers in North America, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, and Asia. Our government customers include a variety of federal and international agencies and organizations, including civilian and defense agencies and resellers to such entities. We sell to enterprise customers in a variety of sectors such as financial services, energy, media, manufacturing, transportation, and retail. Our global support and service organization, along with third-party service organizations, provides installation, maintenance, technical assistance, and customer training. Industry Background Among the significant advances in networking technologies over the past decade is the use of packet switching to divide information into relatively small packets for transportation over a network. Packet switching enables disparate applications to converge onto a single packet infrastructure, allows use of public infrastructure rather than requiring dedicated network lines, and is particularly well suited to the fast transmission of high volumes of information, often referred to as “broadband” communications. In contrast, circuit switching makes use of dedicated or leased lines to provide secure and deterministic transmission of communications. Historically, circuit-switched technology has been used by the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) and for the transmission of relatively low-to-medium volumes of information, often referred to as “narrowband” communications. Packet-switched networks have been built main ly for carrying non real-time data, and circuit-switched networks continue to offer certain advantages for networks requiring the most secure and reliably deterministic communications. VoIP allows for the transmission of voice along with other data over packet-routed networks, and provides an alternative to traditional circuit-switched telephone networks. As a result of the potential cost savings and added features of VoIP, consumers, enterprises, telecommunication service providers and others are increasingly adopting VoIP for their voice communications. VoIP has experienced growth in recent years due to its lower cost compared to traditional telephone circuit service. This growth has been aided by technological advances that have recently improved the quality and reliability of VoIP connections to rival that of traditional telephone circuit service, including security features, and by innovations that allow VoIP connections to include services not available on traditional voice-only networks. VoIP transmissions, by virtue of the data flow over open packet-routed networks, are inherently unsecure unless encryption o r other security enhancements are applied to the transmission. The increasing use of VoIP transmissions over different types of networks, such as fixed-line, cellular, and short-distance wireless, creates an opportunity to use a single protocol for these transmissions, allowing for a convergence of fixed and mobile communications. As an example of this fixed-mobile convergence (FMC), service providers can enable subscribers to roam and handover calls between cellular networks and public and private wireless networks using dual-mode mobile handsets. One standard for managing the transition between networks is Unlicensed Mobile Access (UMA), a technology that takes advantage of existing unlicensed spectrum technologies such as Bluetooth and 802.11 (WiFi). As the U.S. Federal Government moves to an all-IP network, there will be new applications, such as field-deployable VoIP gateways, secure data transmission in high performance networks, and grid computing applications. For example, many government agencies must incorporate advanced, high speed data services into their networks while providing interoperability with the broad base of network technologies and applications that have been deployed over the years. Many new applications, such as those involving grid computing, will require high-grade data transfer between SANs and WANs. InfiniBand is a communications technology for high performance networks that can interconnect large “compute clusters” due to its progressive scalability and extremely low latency. Until now, InfiniBand has been confined within the data center due to its sub-20 meter cable length limitations. New, very high-speed network processing chips make it poss ible to remove this limitation, so that remotely located data centers and grid computing elements can be interconnected seamlessly with InfiniBand. Business Strategy Our strategy is to provide customers with intelligent, multi-service network platforms for the secure, high-speed transport of voice, video, and data traffic that: · Facilitate network evolution and interoperability · Support a broad array of access technologies · Reduce the risk of introduction of new network technologies into users’ operations · Extend the viability of legacy systems. The following are key elements of our strategy: Leverage our incumbent position in the government market. N.E.T. was a pioneer of the concept of multi-service networking and has been delivering these mission-critical capabilities for over twenty years. The installed base and revenue contribution from our narrowband Promina product line, sold primarily to government entities in recent years, continues to be the majority of our revenue today. The U.S. Federal Government, its agencies, and other customers around the world have used Promina for mission-critical networks, due in part to its time-proven ruggedness, reliability and capabilities for secure communications. We intend to leverage our installed customer base, particularly the government, for future sales of our broadband and IP telephony platforms, enabling the transition to IP while supporting legacy traffic and applications. Design and develop industry leading broadband hardware and software service solutions. We consider our technological and product leadership to be critical to our future success. We have recently entered into agreements with a number of technology suppliers in an attempt to bring new N.E.T. products to market in a short time frame. We are also leveraging features of our SHOUT platform to develop a universal voice exchange platform, our VX Series, which will be designed to provide extensive protocol and signaling interoperability to meet the needs of the global enterprise market. Leverage relationships with key partners. We continually seek to establish relationships with other technology suppliers, application software vendors, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), distributors, resellers and our customers. N.E.T. also seeks relationships with the systems integrators, software solutions providers, and large incumbent vendors globally that could facilitate our entry and success in global enterprise networks and major government projects. Provide value-added service and system integration capabilities. Since our inception, we have viewed customer service and support as a key element of our overall strategy and a critical component for our long-term relationship with customers. Customers around the world turn to us not only for the reliability and performance of our products but also for our comprehensive support services that optimize the value of those products. Additionally, by offering an upgrade path to new products in lieu of costly “time and materials” options for long-discontinued products, we are able to reintroduce ourselves to customers who recognize our tradition for building high performance, reliable and well-supported products. Products Promina – Narrowband Multiservice Access Platforms Our Promina family of multi-service access platforms integrates voice, data, image and video traffic across a single network infrastructure. The Promina platform, tailored to circuit-switched networks, provides mission-critical support for a wide variety of communications applications and traffic types, including ATM, frame relay, IP, and integrated services digital network (ISDN) signaling. Promina products offer a broad range of user-side interfaces, enabling standards-based connection of communications equipment, whether located at a service provider’s switching facility or at an enterprise or government customer’s premises. The Promina platform features advanced network management services, which provide a high degree of visibility into network operations. For fault tolerance and high network reliability, our Promina products can be configured with redundant power, common logic, and trunk interfaces. These products incorporate distributed network intelligence that allows the network to quickly and automatically reroute traffic in the event of failure of a component. The Promina product family includes a range of systems for various node sizes, with various processor, application, and interface modules. We offer a broadband migration path for Promina customers with the SCREAMlink program. SCREAMlink allows Promina customers to protect their investments in existing architectures while accommodating immediate needs through a logical migration to a hybrid Promina/SCREAM solution, monitored and controlled by netMS, an integrated network management solution. In addition, we also market an IP trunk interface for Promina, enabling direct IP connections to the Promina platform. In fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, our Promina products accounted for 77.7%, 81.2%, and 86.3% of product revenue, respectively. VX Series – Universal Voice Exchange Platform The next evolution of our SHOUT product line, the VX Series is a fully-integrated multi-service voice switch with any-to-any gateway functionality, which offers enterprise customers a VoIP solution that interoperates with existing PBX and IP PBX systems. As a multi-function voice switch, the VX Series can be deployed in distributed networks to reduce and consolidate PBX infrastructure. VX extends advanced call system features from centralized data centers to remote locations. With its remote survivability features, VX provides continuous, local call service and intelligent trunk routing in the event of network connectivity failures. The VX Series supports a variety of voice capabilities for enterprises, government and service providers, such as long-distance VoIP, hosted IP telephony, calling card services, and interactive voice response (IVR) solutions for call centers and help desks. The VX Series merges call control signaling and transport functionality into a single platform. The system’s advanced protocol translation, along with industry standard interfaces and integrated support for signaling system 7 (SS7) signaling, allow voice service providers to interconnect with multiple signaling protocols from autonomous networks. This compatibility or interoperability with existing vendors and networks reduces the risks for service providers or enterprises to switch to or incorporate the VX Series platform. Additionally, the VX Series offers a comprehensive voice security solution, including MD5 authentication to prevent spoofing, proprietary voice tunneling to prevent hijacking of calls, the SHOUT packet module to prevent rogue packets from delivering a distributed denial of service attack, and built in firewall to prevent SPIT (spam over Internet telephony), hackers, worms, viruses and Trojan horse attacks. Also, the VX Series offers transport layer security (TLS) to encrypt voice signaling and prevent tracing and trapping of an unencrypted voice stream with a person or telephone that can occur in an open Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) environment. The VX 2500 platform supports one to 32 T1/E1 connections or up to 960 simultaneous voice calls, all in a five-inch high chassis that can be easily configured for a variety of services. This platform reduces space requirements by eliminating multiple stand-alone devices and the complex integration efforts required by other solutions on the market. The VX 900 supports one to eight T1/E1 connections or 240 simultaneous voice calls, with support for secure telephone units (STU) and calling card applications, in a chassis 1.75 inches high. Using a combination of both open and exclusive technologies, the VX Series platform helps the enterprise to migrate their existing legacy telephony systems to a converged IP solution. The VX Series enables the interconnection of multi-vendor PBX and call center environments across an existing IP data network, while simultaneously integrating next generation VoIP applications, such as Microsoft’s Live Communications Server (LCS) and contact center solutions from Genesys. The VX Series’ multi-vendor, multi-protocol support, combined with its strong support of open standards such as SIP, helps customers avoid becoming locked into a particular vendor’s proprietary solutions. The VX Series platform includes the ability to deliver secure voice applications. The U.S. Federal Government uses a variety of special phones to facilitate secure communications. The VX Series allows these phones to be used over IP networks, thus enabling a secured voice technology to be readily deployed wherever a connection to an IP network is available. The VX Series incorporates functionality that enables a high bandwidth utilization rate, which is particularly important in expensive, limited bandwidth situations such as satellite links. To address the emerging FMC market, the Company has announced plans to deliver a UMA-enabled enterprise mobility solution based on the VX Series. The solution is intended to enable mobile operators to deliver enterprise-class FMC and mobility applications using dual-mode handsets. The design provides for interoperation with existing telecommunications and data networking infrastructure, with carrier support. The VX platform provides key elements for enabling enterprise FMC, including its multi-service IP voice switch with an integrated session border controller and vendor-independent remote survivability features. SCREAM – Broadband Services Delivery Platform SCREAM delivers single-platform integration of broadband aggregation and subscriber management, IP routing via Cisco’s IOS, ATM switching, edge routing, and broadband service creation. By aggregating a broad range of services and historically disparate technologies on a single platform, SCREAM can help managers of legacy networks reduce their capital equipment expenditures while they advance their broadband service offerings. In addition, the Promina Broadband Shelf, which is based on the SCREAM platform, provides government customers additional access to this broad range of ATM and IP technology. N.E.T. has rights to use Cisco’s IOS pursuant to a long-standing relationship with Cisco. Cisco technology dominates the market for core network routers. We leverage Cisco’s command line interface (CLI) to provide near plug-and-play compatibility for customers with Cisco-powered networks, including carriers and the government. NX Series – High Speed Network Exchange Platform – (under development) We are currently developing network exchange products that are based on high-performance networking platforms that provide high-grade data transfer between SANs and WANs and secure grid computing. The NX5010ae, which is the initial product being developed in the NX Series, is a high-performance network exchange product that is designed for multi-protocol conversion and transport over high speed networks. Protocols utilized include InfiniBand, IP, Ethernet, ATM, and multiprotocol label switching (MPLS). With the NX5010ae, the short-distance limitations of InfiniBand are removed allowing seamless interconnection of remotely located data centers and grid computing elements with low latency. Customers and Markets N.E.T. operates in one segment: the design, development, manufacture and sale of networking technology platforms used for mission-critical communications solutions and associated services used by government organizations, enterprises, and carriers worldwide. N.E.T. pioneered multiservice networking and has been delivering this capability for over 20 years. Our focus is on information and communication-intensive organizations and these customers may be local, national, or global in their operations. We identify our markets as three primary groups: government, enterprises, and telecommunication carriers, or service providers. Government customers include but are not limited to U.S. defense and intelligence agencies, civilian agencies such as the Federal Aviation Administration and the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and international organizations such as NATO and foreign defense ministries, as well as resellers to such entities. Cu rrent enterprise customers include corporations representing the financial, banking, insurance, energy, media, transportation, manufacturing and retail sectors. Recent carrier customers include a variety of regional telecommunication companies. Sales to the government sector represented 86.1%, 86.6%, and 77.5% of N.E.T.’s revenue in fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. N.E.T. does business with the government both as a direct contractor and as a subcontractor. A substantial portion of the revenue generated from our government customers is based on our contract with the General Services Administration (GSA), as well as through direct contracts such as with the Department of Defense (DoD) and NATO. Some of these contracts may also be used by other government agencies. N.E.T.’s current GSA contract, although extended through July 2006, is currently being reviewed and is under renegotiation to add new products and extend the term for an additional five years. Emerging market areas such as Eastern Europe, China, and Latin America, where telecommunications infrastructure is relatively underdeveloped, have demand for our Promina product line. Applications that can be enabled by Promina-based solutions include digital data networks (DDNs) that provide basic data services in these locations. Sales to non-government customers in both emerging and more established areas outside of North America, our international commercial sector, represented 9.3%, 8.5%, and 14.4% of N.E.T.’s revenue in fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. In fiscal 2006, NATO accounted for 10.7% of our revenue. In fiscal 2005, NATO and General Dynamics (a government systems integrator) accounted, respectively, for 13.5% and 11% of our revenue, and in fiscal 2004, General Dynamics accounted for 12.8% of revenue. Excluding aggregate orders from a variety of government agencies, no other single customer accounted for more than ten percent of N.E.T.’s revenue in fiscal 2006, 2005, or 2004. Competition The market for telecommunications equipment is highly competitive and dynamic, has been characterized by rapid changes to and the convergence of technologies, and has seen a worldwide migration from existing circuit technology to the new packet-based technologies. We compete directly, both internationally and domestically, with many different companies, some of which are large established suppliers of end-to-end solutions such as Alcatel, Avaya, Cisco, Juniper, Nortel, and Siemens. In addition to some of these large suppliers, a number of other smaller companies are targeting the same markets as we do. The large suppliers have greater financial, marketing and technical resources than we do and offer a wider range of networking products than we offer. These suppliers can often provide a complete network solution rather than a partial solution that may make their products more attractive to potential N.E.T. customers. The smaller compani es have more ability than we do to focus their resources on a particular product development unencumbered by the requirements to support an existing product line. As a result of the flexibility of their market strategies, our competitors may be able to obtain strategic advantages that we cannot. Sales We sell our products and services through both direct and indirect sales channels worldwide, including large government systems integrators. We support the sales force effort with sales engineers who provide customers with pre-sale and post-sale technical assistance which allows N.E.T. to gain more in-depth knowledge of customers’ network requirements. Our business is generally not seasonal, though we have been affected by delays in adoption of government entity budgets and spending patterns of the Federal Government at its September end of year. We sell products and services in North America primarily through direct channels, although we intend to make greater use of distributors and integrators in some markets, especially for the VX Series product line. Our international sales are made almost entirely through indirect channels that are augmented by the efforts of a local sales force. In addition to the marketing and sale of products, international resellers provide system installation and technical support. In most cases, international resellers have non-exclusive agreements to resell N.E.T. products within particular geographic areas. Resale agreements do not contain a sales commitment or required sales quota. We sell to governments primarily through N.E.T.’s wholly owned subsidiary, N.E.T. Federal, Inc. (N.E.T. Federal), which sells products directly, through systems integrators, through collaborative government contracting, and by contracting agencies at their convenience or at annual intervals. N.E.T. Federal supports sales to the Federal Government’s defense and civilian sectors and to government agencies worldwide. Sales to governments include sales under contracts with certain agencies within the U.S. Department of Defense, intelligence and civilian agencies, and international government organizations. Our selling model makes use of our field sales, engineering, product management, and executive personnel to establish and maintain customer contacts at multiple levels within a customer organization. We believe the successful execution of this multi-tiered selling model is important to our success. Backlog We manufacture our products based upon our forecast of customer demand and we typically build products in advance of receiving firm orders from our customers. Orders for N.E.T.’s products are generally placed by customers on an as-needed basis and we typically have been able to ship these products within 30-90 days after the customer submits a firm purchase order. As a U.S.-based company, we are required to give priority to Federal Government rated “defense-expedite” (DX) orders, which may cause the backlog of other customers’ orders to become delinquent. Because of the possibility of customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellation of orders, N.E.T.’s backlog as of any particular date may not be indicative of sales in any future period. Customer Service The markets, customers and complex challenges of the networking industry described above require support, service and other assistance in the development, operation and expansion of a customer network. We provide a wide range of global service and support options to customers and resellers of N.E.T. products. Service offerings include product installation, a choice of different hardware and software maintenance programs to meet the varying needs of our customers, parts repair, remote and on-site technical assistance, and customer training. In addition, N.E.T. provides web-based customer support services through our Electronic Support Center. Services available over the web include first-line troubleshooting information for N.E.T. products; technical information, such as trouble shooting guides and frequently asked questions; and a web-based interface to N.E.T.’s Technical Assistance Center (TAC) through an online case management s ystem. TAC is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, staffed by engineers trained in networking products. TAC assists customers remotely over the telephone and has multiple language capabilities. TAC engineers have the ability to replicate customer problems and test proposed solutions prior to implementation. Maintenance support from TAC, whether provided over the web or over the telephone, is fee-based under either an annual fee contract or on a time-and-materials basis. Through a contractual arrangement with CACI International Inc. (CACI), CACI provides maintenance and other services to our Federal customers. We provide third-level support to CACI and other services as required. Our products are also serviced and supported by other partners throughout the globe. Customer training on N.E.T. products, OEM products and the underlying technologies is provided to both end-users and resellers worldwide. We provide training both at N.E.T. facilities and at customer and reseller sites. Our training services can be customized to meet the special requirements of our customers. Customers are charged per person per class for N.E.T. training. We also offer a portfolio of computer-based training sessions for our products, which are licensed on an individual or site basis. In fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, service and support revenue accounted for 18.7%, 15.3%, and 14.9%, respectively, of N.E.T.’s revenue. Manufacturing We outsource all product manufacturing, including assembly and structural test, functional test, systems integration, and order fulfillment functions. We also consolidated all our outsourced manufacturing to a single vendor during fiscal 2006. Up until the second half of fiscal 2006, we performed the functional test, systems integration, and order fulfillment functions in-house at our Fremont, California facility. We maintain control over parts procurement, design, documentation and selection of approved suppliers. Our agreement with the contract manufacturer requires us to compensate our contract manufacturer in the event of termination or cancellation of orders, discontinuance of product, or excess material created by an engineering change. We have not incurred significant charges as a result of these factors. Several key components of our products are available only from a single source, including certain integrated circuits and power supplies. Depending upon the component, there may or may not be alternative sources or substitutes. Some of these components are purchased through purchase orders without an underlying long-term supply contract. Any delay or difficulty in obtaining needed components could seriously impact our ability to ship products. We attempt to maintain sufficient inventory to ship products quickly, normally within 30 to 90 days after receipt of an order. Scheduling of production and inventory supply is based on internal sales forecasts. Generally, our customer contracts allow the customers to reschedule delivery dates or cancel orders within certain time frames before shipment without penalty and outside those time frames with a penalty. Because of these and other factors, there are risks that excess or inadequate inventory levels could occur. We are focused on continually enhancing the quality of products and services delivered to customers worldwide. This includes improving the quality of supplied components, subassemblies and internal processes. As part of this continuing process, N.E.T. is TL 9000 certified. Research and Development We believe that our long-term success depends on our ability to maintain product and technology leadership. The networking equipment industry is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, enhancements to products currently in the market and constantly changing customer requirements. To compete effectively, N.E.T. must be able to bring new products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner and provide existing customers an attractive migration path to our newer products. Along with making continued investments in our internal research and development, we also enter into development agreements with other technology suppliers and may make strategic acquisitions to provide needed technology and resources. We continually monitor relevant markets and our customers’ businesses and technology developments in order to develop products that proactively address customer needs. The majority of our research and development activity is focused on packet-based technologies, particularly VoIP and high-speed networking. While most product development activity is undertaken by N.E.T. employees, we enter into license and technology agreements to accelerate development of new products or expand the scope of development efforts, as well as employ external development organizations. We have also begun to outsource some of our product development activities. In fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, N.E.T.’s research and development expenditures were $23.2 million, $26.1 million, and $27.6 million, respectively. Employees As of March 31, 2006, we had 254 full-time employees. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We consider our employee relations to be good. Geographic Information See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. Intellectual Property We believe that the development of our intellectual property portfolio is central to our success and ability to compete effectively. We devote considerable resources to invent and develop new technologies and then to protect these technologies from unauthorized use. We have a program to seek protection of our proprietary technology under various protection frameworks such as patent, trade secret, trademarks and copyright protection. We seek protection in the United States and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. We believe that ownership of patents, trade secrets, trademarks and copyrights is central to our ability to defend ourselves against intellectual property infringement allegations. We seek to protect our inventions, trade secrets and other confidential information by non-disclosure policies. All of our employees and contractors sign confidentiality and invention disclosure agreements. Any person outside N.E.T. receiving N.E.T. confidential information either signs a non-disclosure agreement prior to receiving proprietary technology information or is a N.E.T. licensee. We foster the disclosure of patentable inventions with a financial incentive program benefiting our employees and contractors. Over the past twenty years, a number of patents have been issued to N.E.T. in the United States, Europe and Japan. These include some very early basic ATM inventions that conform to ATM Forum standards. We have a highly focused effort to identify and patent our proprietary VX Series technology and technology related to the migration of our narrowband Promina multiservice access platform to broadband services. In fiscal 2006, we were granted six U.S. patents, and now hold a total of 35 U.S. patents. We expect to continue filing patent applications and enter into license agreements as our development process for newer products moves forward. We have not historically pursued claims against other companies based on possible infringements of our patent portfolio, but we believe that our investment in intellectual property protection can offer defenses to claims against us and may provide an additional source of future revenue. Where You Can Find More Information We make our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to such reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, available free of charge on or through our Internet website located at www.net.com., as soon as reasonably practical after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Stockholders may also access and download free of charge our corporate governance documents, including our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee Charters, and Code of Business Conduct, on or through this Internet website. In addition, any stockholder who wishes to obtain a printed copy of any of these documents should write to: Investor Relations, N.E.T., 6900 Paseo Padre Parkway, Fremont, California 94555. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to the risks and uncertainties described below. Although we have tried to identify the material risks to our business, this is not an all-inclusive list. There may be additional risks that have not yet been identified and risks that are not material now but could become material. Any one of these risks could hurt our business, results of operations or financial condition. We have incurred net losses in the past and may continue to incur losses in the future. For each of the last several fiscal years, we have incurred net losses. Although we have reduced operating expenses over the past several years, we will need revenue to grow in order to achieve profitability. Our circuit-switched product line, Promina, currently provides the majority of our revenue, but revenue from that product line has declined in recent years. Our newer IP-based products, have not yet achieved market acceptance or broad commercial sales, and we are incurring substantial product development and marketing expenses for those and other product lines that we do not expect to launch until fiscal 2007. Accordingly, we will not likely be profitable unless our newer product lines achieve commercial success that outpaces the anticipated decline of our Promina product line. In addition, we must contain our operating expenses, many of which are fixed in the short term making it difficult to reduce expenses rapidly in response t o shortfalls in revenue. Our operating results may continue to fluctuate. Our operating results vary significantly from quarter to quarter. These fluctuations may result from a number of factors, including: · changes in demand for our products, particularly our narrowband Promina product line, which has declined significantly in the last two fiscal years; · the timing of orders from, and shipments to, our customers; · the timing of the introduction of, and market acceptance for, new products and services; · variations in the mix of products and services we sell; · the timing and level of certain expenses, such as joint venture and development arrangements, marketing activities, prototype costs, write-offs of obsolete inventory, or potential write-downs of lease costs for facilities that we may cease to use; · the timing of revenue recognition, which depends on numerous factors, such as contractual acceptance provisions and separability of arrangements involving multiple elements, including some factors that are out of our control, such as assurance as to collectibility; · the timing and amounts of stock-based awards to employees; · the timing and size of Federal Government budget approvals and spending, and timing of government deployment schedules; and · economic conditions in the networking industry, including the overall capital expenditures of our customers. Due to the foregoing factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. Any shortfall in revenue may adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Investors should not rely on our results or growth for one quarter as any indication of our future performance. Our stock price is volatile and could decline substantially. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past, will likely continue to fluctuate in the future and may decline. Fluctuations or a decline in our stock price may occur regardless of our performance. Among the factors that could affect our stock price, in addition to our performance, are: · variations between our operating results and either the guidance we have furnished to the public or the published expectations of securities analysts; · changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts following our business; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new products or services, acquisitions, or other significant transactions; · sale of our common stock or other securities in the future; · the inclusion or exclusion of our stock in various indices or investment categories, especially as compared to the investment profiles of our stockholders at a given time; · changes in the stock prices of other telecommunications equipment companies, to the extent that some investors tend to buy or sell our stock based on segment trends; · the trading volume of our common stock; and · repurchases we make of our common stock. We are dependent on revenue from the Promina product line. Currently, we derive the majority of our product revenue from our Promina product line, a circuit-based narrowband technology. The market for our Promina product is declining as networks increasingly employ packet-based broadband technology. This technology migration resulted in a significant drop in sales of our Promina products over the last several years. If we are unable to develop substantial revenue from our newer packet-based broadband product lines, our business and results of operations will suffer. Although we have developed a migration path to broadband technology and have entered and expect to enter into development agreements with third parties to expand our broadband offerings, this strategy may not materially mitigate this decline. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from sales to governmental agencies. A significant portion of our total revenue from product sales comes from contracts with governmental agencies, most of which do not include long-term purchase commitments. Historically, the government has been slower to adopt new technology, such as packet-based technology, which has had the effect of extending the product life of our Promina product. While the government has purchased and is evaluating some of our new products for broader deployment, this new business may not develop quickly or be sufficient to offset future declines in sales of our Promina product. Furthermore, if the government accelerated adoption of new technology, and replaced the Promina product line in their networks with products other than ours, our product revenue would decline further. We anticipate that our past experience will result in future contracts with the government; however, we face significant competition in this endeavor. If we fail in developin g new products and successfully selling them to our government customers, our revenue may not increase to profitable levels. A substantial portion of the revenue generated from our government customers is based on our contract with the GSA, which is presently up for renewal. There is a possibility that the GSA will not renew the contract, which would make many of our government sales more difficult. We have also submitted a proposal to modify our GSA schedule to add some of our newer products, which certain government customers had been purchasing as “open market” items. If the GSA does not agree to add these products to our GSA schedule, or does not renew the contract, future sales of such products to government customer will be more difficult. and our revenue and results of operations may suffer. As part of the renewal process for our contract with the GSA, the government performed a pre-award audit, which identified a number of possible discrepancies regarding our compliance with the current GSA contract. In response to the pre-award audit, we conducted an internal review of our compliance with the contract, which provided an estimate of potential liabilities resulting from the discrepancies. We have accrued a liability in the amount of the estimated liability through fiscal 2006. However, the GSA could seek additional amounts if it disputes the results of our internal review, or could seek additional amounts for discrepancies following the review period. Also, if the GSA contract is renewed by the government, we expect the discount offered to government customers to be higher than it was for most of the term of the current contract. Through an agreement resulting from the sale of our Federal Services Business to CACI, CACI provides maintenance and other services to our Federal Government customers. If for any reason our mutual customers are unsatisfied with the services, it could adversely affect sales of our products. Our success depends on our ability to develop new products and product enhancements that will achieve market acceptance. Our operating results will depend on the successful design, development, testing, introduction, marketing, and broad commercial distribution of our newer IP-based products, as well as successful evolution of our Promina product line incorporating packet-based technology. The success of these products is dependent on several factors, including proper product definition, competitive pricing, timely completion and introduction to the market, differentiation from competitors’ products, and broad market acceptance. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and evolving methods of building and operating networks. We may not successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner, or achieve market acceptance of our products. Products and technologies developed by others may render our products or technologies obsolete or non-competitive, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to achieve profitability. Gross margins could decline over future periods. Gross margins may be adversely affected in the future due to increases in material and labor costs, increases in subcontractor charges, changes in the mix of products and services we sell, increased sales through resellers, increased warranty costs, or pressure on pricing and margins due to competition. As we introduce new products, our overall gross margins may decline, as new products typically have lower gross margins than established products, as a result of customary discounting for early customers and higher per-unit costs associated with low purchase volumes of components. A decline in our gross margins could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Regulations and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, could affect our ability to sell into international markets. We conduct sales and customer support operations in countries outside of the United States and depend on non-US operations of our subsidiaries and distribution partners. As a general rule, international sales tend to have risks that are difficult to foresee and plan for, including political and economic stability, regulatory changes, currency exchange rates, changes in tax rates and structures, and collection of accounts receivable. Further, our international markets are served primarily by non-exclusive resellers who themselves may be severely affected by economic or market changes within a particular country or region. Our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors that could affect these activities. Unforeseen or unpredictable changes in international markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. For sales w ithin the European Union, our products must comply with the Restriction on Hazardous Substances Directive (RoHS), any failure of which could result in fines, product seizures, or injunctions against sale. The market for our products is highly competitive and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. The market for networking equipment is highly competitive and dynamic, has been characterized by rapid technological changes and shifting customer requirements, and has seen a worldwide migration from existing circuit technology to the new packet-based technologies. We compete directly, both internationally and domestically, with many different companies, some of which are large, established suppliers of end-to-end solutions, such as Alcatel, Avaya, Cisco, Juniper, Nortel and Siemens. In addition to some of these large suppliers, a number of other smaller companies are targeting the same markets as we are. Our larger competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing and technical resources than we have and offer a wider range of networking products than we offer. They are often able to devote greater resources to the development, marketing and sale of their products and to use their equity or significant cash reserves to acquire other companies with technology and/or products that compete directly with ours. They often can compete favorably on price because their large product selection allows them to bundle multiple solutions together without significantly affecting their overall product margins. The smaller companies have more ability than we do to focus their resources on a particular product development unencumbered by the requirements to support an existing product line. As a result of the flexibility of their market strategies, our competitors may be able to obtain strategic advantages that may adversely affect our busine ss, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the networking equipment market has seen the constant introduction of new technologies that has reduced the value of older technology solutions. This has created pricing pressure on older products while increasing the performance expectations of newer networking equipment. Moreover, broadband technology standards are constantly evolving and alternative technologies or technologies with greater capability are constantly introduced and sought by our customers. It is possible that the introduction of other technologies will either supplant our current technologies and technologies we have in development, or will require us to significantly lower our prices in order to remain competitive. To remain competitive, we must continue to evolve our product lines to meet the ever-changing technology needs of the networking market while ensuring that they can be sold at a competitive price. We also must enhance our Promina product line to provide needed features that increase its overall value for the customer while keeping the price competitive. Due to the competitive nature of the market and the relative age of our Promina product offerings as well as the competitive pressure affecting all our products, we may not be able to maintain prices for them at levels that will sustain profitability. Also, we may not be successful in completing the development of, or commercializing, products under development. If we are unable to sign competitive resale partners, our future product and service revenue will be adversely affected. Our international sales are made almost entirely through indirect channels that include distributors and resellers worldwide, and our business strategy includes leveraging resale partners in the United States. In addition, many of our target customers, including the government, rely on systems integrators to incorporate new equipment or services into their networks. While we have begun the process of identifying and signing software application, system integrator and OEM or resale partners, more partners are necessary in these areas for us to be successful. We may also need to pursue strategic partnerships with vendors who have broader technology or product offerings in order to compete with the end-to-end solution providers. Failure to sign up new reseller and strategic partners could affect our ability to grow overall revenue. Our distributors and resellers often also resell product lines from other companies, including our competitors, some of whom have strong market position relative to the Company. Because of existing relationships that many of our competitors have with distributors and resellers, it is often difficult for us to find a distributor or reseller who is willing and contractually able to resell our products. If we cannot develop relationships with distributors and resellers that can effectively market and sell our products and services, our future revenue will be adversely affected. Our existing reseller agreements do not have minimum purchase requirements. Our products have long sales cycles, making it difficult to predict when a customer will place an order and when to forecast revenue from the related sale. Our products are very complex and represent a significant capital expenditure to our customers. The purchase of our products can have a significant impact on how a customer designs its network and provides services either within its own organization or to an external customer. Consequently, our customers often engage in extensive testing and evaluation of products before purchase. There are also numerous financial and budget considerations and approvals that the customer often must obtain before it will issue a purchase order. As a result, the length of our sales cycle can be quite long, extending beyond twelve months in some cases. In addition, our customers, including resellers, often have the contractual right to delay scheduled order delivery dates with minimal penalties and to cancel orders within specified time frames without penalty, which makes it difficult to predict whether or not an order may actually ship. We often must inc ur substantial sales and marketing expense to ensure a purchase order is placed. If the order is not placed in the quarter forecasted, our sales may not meet forecast and revenue may be insufficient to meet expenses. Because it is difficult for us to accurately forecast sales, particularly within a given time frame, we face a risk of carrying too much or too little inventory. Typically, the majority of our revenue in each quarter has resulted from orders received and shipped in that quarter. While we do not believe that backlog is necessarily indicative of future revenue levels, our customers’ ordering patterns and the possible absence of backlogged orders create a significant risk that we could carry too much or too little inventory if orders do not match forecasts. Rather than base forecasts on orders received, we have been forced to schedule production and commit to certain expenses based more upon forecasts of future sales, which are difficult to predict. If large orders do not close when forecasted or if near-term demand weakens for the products we have available to ship, our operating results for that quarter or subsequent quarters would be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, if there is an unexpected decrease in demand for certain products or there is an increased risk of inventory obsol escence, which can happen relatively quickly due to rapidly changing technology and customer requirements, adjustments may be required to write down or write off the inventory, which would adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to retain existing employees and attract, recruit and retain key personnel, then we may not be able to successfully manage our business. Our success continues to be dependent on our being able to attract and retain highly skilled engineers, managers and other key employees. In most cases, we face significant competition for the most qualified personnel for new positions and to replace departing employees. If we are not able to continue to attract, recruit and retain key personnel, particularly in engineering and sales and marketing positions, we may be unable to meet important company objectives such as product delivery deadlines and sales targets. Our ability to ship our products in a timely manner is dependent on the availability of component parts and other factors. Several key components of our products are available only from a single source, including certain integrated circuits and power supplies. Depending upon the component, there may or may not be alternative sources or substitutes. Some components are purchased through purchase orders without an underlying long-term supply contract, and some components are in short supply generally throughout the industry. If a required component were no longer available, we might have to significantly reengineer the affected product. Further, variability in demand and cyclical shortages of capacity in the semiconductor industry have caused lead times for ordering parts to increase from time to time. Delays may occur as a result of factors beyond our control, including weather-related delays. If we encounter shortages or delays in receiving ordered components or if we are not able to accurately forecast our ordering requirements, we may be unable to ship o rdered products in a timely manner, resulting in decreased revenue. Generally, our customer contracts allow the customers to reschedule delivery dates or cancel orders within certain time frames before shipment without penalty and outside those time frames with a penalty. Because of these and other factors, there are risks of excess or inadequate inventory that could negatively affect our expenses, revenue and earnings. Additionally, defense expedite (DX)-rated orders from the Federal Government, which by law receive priority, can interrupt scheduled shipments to our other customers. We single-source our manufacturing processes; a failure or delay by our contract-manufacturing vendor could affect our ability to ship our products timely. We outsource all product manufacturing, including assembly and structural test, as well as functional test, systems integration, and order fulfillment functions to a single vendor, located in the eastern United States. Any difficulties or failures to perform by our contract manufacturer could cause delays in customer product shipments or otherwise negatively affect our results of operations. We have agreed to compensate our contract manufacturer in the event of termination or cancellation of orders, discontinuance of product, or excess material created by an engineering change. Also, should a contract manufacturer in some future period decide not to renew our contract with them, it would be difficult for us to quickly transfer our manufacturing requirements to another vendor, likely causing substantial delays in customer product shipments and affecting our revenue and results of operations. If we transition product manufacturing to a n ew vendor, the transition itself and the lack of experience and adjustments to working with the new vendor could cause delays in customer product shipments or otherwise negatively affect our results of operations. Our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to protect our business. Our future success depends in part upon our proprietary technology. Although we attempt to establish and maintain rights in proprietary technology and products through patents, copyrights, and trade secrets laws, we cannot predict whether such protection will be adequate, or whether our competitors can develop similar technology independently without violating our proprietary rights. As competition in the communications equipment industry increases and the functionality of the products in this industry further overlap, we believe that companies in the communications equipment industry may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. We have received and may continue to receive notice from third parties, including some of our competitors, claiming that we are infringing their patents or their other proprietary rights. We cannot predict whether we will prevail in any litigation over third-party claims, or that we will be able to l icense any valid and infringed patents on commercially reasonable terms. Any of these claims, whether with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, divert our management’s time, attention and resources, delay our product shipments or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. In addition, a third party may not be willing to enter into a royalty or licensing agreement on acceptable terms, if at all. If a claim of product infringement against us is successful and we fail to obtain a license or develop or license non-infringing technology, we may be unable to market the affected product. Although we have a number of patent applications pending, we cannot guarantee that any will result in the issuance of a patent. Even if issued, the patent may later be found to be invalid or may be infringed without our knowledge. Our issued patents might not be enforceable against competitive products in every jurisdiction and it is difficult to monitor unauthorized use of our proprietary technology by others. Regardless of our efforts to protect our intellectual property, the rapidly changing technologies in the networking industry make our future success primarily a function of the skill, expertise and management abilities of our employees. Nonetheless, others may assert property rights to technologies that are relevant to our currently marketed products or our products under development. If our protected proprietary rights are challenged, invalidated or circumvented, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive positi on and sales of our products. We rely on technologies licensed from third parties. For each of our product lines, we license some of our technology from third parties. These licenses are generally limited in duration or by the volume of shipments of the licensed technology. In addition, some of these licenses contain limitations on distribution of the licensed technology or provide for expiration upon certain events, such as a change in control of the company. If the relevant licensing agreement expires or is terminated without our being able to renew that license on commercially reasonable terms, or if we cannot obtain a license for our products or enhancements on our existing products we may be unable to market the affected products. For many of these technologies, we rely on the third-party providers to update and maintain the technology, fixing errors and adding new features. If the third-party providers do not adequately update and maintain these technologies, whether due to changes in their product direction, t heir own financial difficulties, or other reasons, we would need to seek alternative means to fulfill the ongoing requirements for our products that incorporate the third-party technology. If we are unable to find alternative means of fulfilling the ongoing requirements, we may be unable to market the affected products. We have also begun to outsource some of our product development activities, which carries inherent risks such as reduced ability to control the timing and quality of the work product, uncertain continuity and availability of skills and knowledge, difficulties of managing and integrating the third-party development, and potential disputes over intellectual property. In using third parties for product development, we must share with them and will receive from them various intellectual property, which increases the risk of misuse of our intellectual property, as well as the risk that the resulting product might contain items that infringe the intellectual property rights of others. We face risks associated with changes in telecommunications regulations and tariffs, including regulation of the Internet. The demand for our broadband products could be affected by rulings of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and federal courts regarding services offered in the United States by telecommunications carriers to their customers. Significant regulatory issues include rules regarding the unbundling of broadband and new fiber facilities and equipment used to provide services such as DSL, and whether wireline broadband Internet access services are “telecommunication” services or “information” services, could result in more or less regulation. Changes in domestic and international telecommunications equipment requirements could affect the sales of our products. In the United States, our products must comply with various FCC requirements and regulations. In countries outside of the United States, our products must meet various requirements of local telecommunications authorities. Changes in tariffs or failure by us to obtain timely approval of products could impact our ability to market the affected product. New restrictions on trade, such as in response to transfers of jobs from the United States to lower-cost foreign locations, could limit our ability to purchase components from, or outsource functions to, foreign entities, which would likely make it more difficult to maintain competitiveness in the global market. As a result of our current concentration of business to the Federal Government, we are more sensitive to these trade restrictions, whether tariffs, incentives, or government purchasing requirements such as the “Buy American Act,” than we would be with a more diversified customer base. We are exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currency. As a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse affect on our financial results. We use foreign exchange contracts to hedge significant accounts receivable and intercompany account balances denominated in foreign currencies. Although we have established foreign exchange contracts for non-dollar denominated sales and operating expenses in the United Kingdom, France, and Japan, exposures remain for non-dollar denominated operating expenses in Asia and Latin America. We will continue to monitor our exposure and may hedge against these or any other emerging market currencies as necessary. Market value gains and losses on hedge contracts are substantially offset by fluctuations in the underlying balances being hedged. The location of our facilities subjects us to the risk of earthquake and floods. Our corporate headquarters, including most of our research and development operations, are located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. These facilities are located near the San Francisco Bay where the water table is quite close to the surface and where tenants have experienced water intrusion problems in the facilities nearby. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake or flood, could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We may engage in acquisitions or similar transactions that could disrupt our operations, cause us to incur substantial expenses, result in dilution to our stockholders, and harm our business if we cannot successfully integrate the acquired business, products, technologies or personnel. Although historically we have focused on internal product development and growth, we may learn of acquisition prospects that would complement our existing business or enhance our technological capabilities. Any acquisition by us could result in large and immediate write-offs, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses related to amortizable intangible assets, any of which could negatively affect our results of operations. Furthermore, acquisitions involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including difficulties in the assimilation of products, operations, personnel and technologies; diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; disruptions to our operations; risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and potential loss of key employees. Any material weakness or significant deficiency identified in our internal controls could have an adverse effect on our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that companies evaluate and report on their internal control structure and procedures over financial reporting. In addition, our independent accountants must report annually on management's evaluation as well as evaluate our internal control structure and procedures. Due to the ongoing evaluation and testing of our internal controls, there can be no assurance that there may not be significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that would be required to be reported in the future. In addition, the evaluation process and any required remediation, if applicable, may increase our accounting, legal and other costs, and may divert management resources from other business objectives and concerns. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 