Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are certain risk factors that we believe could materially affect our business, financial condition and prospects. These risk factors are in addition to those mentioned in other parts of this report and are not the only risks we face. Competition The medical/surgical supply distribution industry in the United States is highly competitive and characterized by intense pricing pressure. We compete with other national distributors and a number of regional and local distributors, as well as customer self-distribution models. Competitive factors within the medical/surgical supply distribution industry include market pricing, total delivered product cost, product availability, the ability to fill and invoice orders accurately, delivery time, range of services provided, efficient product sourcing, inventory management, information technology, electronic commerce capabilities, and the ability to meet special requirements of customers. Our success is dependent on the ability to compete on the above factors, while managing internal costs and expenses. These competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Dependence on Significant Customers In 2011, our top ten customers represented approximately 23% of our revenue. In addition, in 2011, approximately 78% of our revenue was from sales to member hospitals under contract with our largest group purchasing organizations (GPO): Novation, Premier, Broadlane and MedAssets. We could lose a significant customer or GPO relationship if an existing contract expires without being replaced or is terminated by the customer or GPO prior to its expiration (if permitted by the applicable contract). Although the termination of our relationship with a given GPO would not necessarily result in the loss of all of the member hospitals as customers, any such termination of a GPO relationship, or a significant individual customer relationship, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Dependence on Significant Suppliers We distribute products from nearly 1,200 suppliers and are dependent on these suppliers for the continuing supply of products. In 2011, sales of products of our ten largest suppliers accounted for approximately 54% of revenue. We rely on suppliers to provide agreeable purchasing and delivery terms and performance incentives. Our ability to sustain adequate operating earnings has been, and will continue to be, partially dependent upon our ability to obtain favorable terms and incentives from suppliers, as well as suppliers’ continuing use of third-party distributors to sell and deliver their products. A change in terms by a significant supplier, or the decision of such a supplier to distribute its products directly to healthcare providers rather than through third-party distributors, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Operating Margin Initiatives In response to increasing competitive pricing pressure in the medical/surgical supply distribution market, we are working to counteract the effects of lower pricing on operating margin through several initiatives. These initiatives include, but are not limited to (i) expansion and improved sourcing of our MediChoice® private-label brand of medical and surgical products, (ii) implementation of new funding programs with our suppliers, (iii) modernizing our infrastructure for core distribution through standardization and technology enhancements designed to increase operational and data management efficiencies and improve customer service, (iv) growth and management of third-party logistics services through OM HealthCare Logistics, (v) growth in consulting and value-added supply chain management services offered through OMSolutionsSM and (vi) continued expansion in non acute-care markets in healthcare. If one or more of these initiatives is unsuccessful, it could have an adverse effect on our future performance. Bankruptcy, Insolvency or other Credit Failure of Customers We provide credit in the normal course of business to customers. We perform initial and ongoing credit evaluations of customers and maintain reserves for credit losses. The bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of one or more customers with substantial balances due to us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in the Healthcare Environment We along with our customers and suppliers are subject to extensive federal and state regulations relating to healthcare as well as the policies and practices of the private healthcare insurance industry. In recent years, there have been a number of government and private initiatives to reduce healthcare costs and government spending. These changes have included an increased reliance on managed care; consolidation of competitors, suppliers and customers; and the development of larger, more sophisticated purchasing groups. All of these changes place additional financial pressure on healthcare providers, who in turn seek to reduce the costs and pricing of products and services provided by us. We expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly and these potential changes, which may include a reduction in government support of healthcare services, adverse changes in legislation or regulations, and reductions in healthcare reimbursement practices, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In March 2010, Congress passed and President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and related Reconciliation Bill, which includes a variety of healthcare reform provisions and requirements that will become effective at varying times from 2010 to 2018. This healthcare reform legislation includes, among other things, provisions for expanded Medicaid eligibility and access to healthcare insurance as well as increased taxes and fees on certain corporations and medical products. The uncertainties surrounding the components of this legislation and the impact of its implementation on the healthcare industry may have an adverse effect on both customer purchasing and payment behavior and supplier product prices and terms of sale, and may require excise taxes to be paid on sales of certain medical products, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Reliance on Information Systems and Technological Advancement We rely on information systems to receive, process, analyze and manage data in distributing thousands of inventory items to customers from numerous distribution centers across the country. These systems are also relied upon for billings to and collections from customers, as well as the purchase of and payment for inventory and related transactions from our suppliers. In addition, the success of our long-term growth strategy is dependent upon the ability to continually monitor and upgrade our information systems to provide better service to customers. A third-party service provider, Dell Perot Systems, is responsible for managing a significant portion of our information systems, including key operational and financial systems. Our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected if systems are interrupted or damaged by unforeseen events or fail to operate for an extended period of time, if we fail to appropriately enhance our systems to support growth and strategic initiatives or if our third-party service provider does not perform satisfactorily. Regulatory Requirements We must comply with numerous laws and regulations, including those of the Food and Drug Administration, the Drug Enforcement Agency, the Department of Transportation, the Department of Homeland Security, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and state boards of pharmacy, or similar state licensing boards, and other regulatory agencies. Also, we are subject to various federal and state laws intended to protect the privacy of health or other personal information and prevent healthcare fraud and abuse. Although we believe we are in material compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, any failure to comply with existing laws and regulations or the imposition of any additional laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes in Tax Laws We operate throughout the United States. As a result we are subjected to the tax laws and regulations of many jurisdictions. From time to time, legislative and regulatory initiatives are proposed, including proposals to repeal LIFO (last-in, first-out) treatment of inventory or change tax accounting methods for inventory or other tax items, that could adversely affect our tax positions, tax rate or cash payments for taxes. General Economic Climate Deterioration in the financial and economic climate in recent years is continuing to have a negative impact on most sectors of the U.S. economy. This deterioration in the financial and economic climate has reduced patient demand for healthcare services, intensified pressures on healthcare providers to reduce both costs and purchases of our products and services and could compromise customers’ ability to timely pay for their purchases. Poor economic conditions could lead our suppliers to offer less favorable terms of purchase to distributors, which would negatively affect our profitability. These and other possible consequences of financial and economic changes including, but not limited to, the ability of banks to honor commitments under our credit facility, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 