Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are certain risk factors that the company believes could materially affect its business, financial condition and prospects. These risk factors are in addition to those mentioned in other parts of this report and are not the only risks the company faces. Competition The medical/surgical supply distribution industry in the United States is highly competitive and characterized by intense pricing pressure. The company competes with other national distributors and a number of regional and local distributors as well as customer self-distribution models. Competitive factors within the medical/surgical supply distribution industry include market pricing, total delivered product cost, product availability, the ability to fill and invoice orders accurately, delivery time, range of services provided, efficient product sourcing, inventory management, information technology, electronic commerce capabilities, and the ability to meet special requirements of customers. The company’s success is dependent on its ability to compete on the above factors, while managing internal costs and expenses. These competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations. Dependence on Significant Customers In 2009, the company’s top ten customers represented approximately 20% of its revenue. In addition, in 2009, approximately 70% of the company’s revenue was from sales to member hospitals under contract with its three largest GPOs: Novation, Premier and Broadlane. The company could lose a significant customer or GPO relationship if an existing contract expires without being replaced or is terminated by the customer or GPO prior to its expiration (if permitted by the applicable contract). Although the termination of the company’s relationship with a given GPO would not necessarily result in the loss of all of the member hospitals as customers, any such termination of a GPO relationship or a significant individual customer relationship could have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations. The company has a contract with Defense Supply Center, Philadelphia (DSCP) under which the U.S. Department of Defense, the company’s largest customer, and other federal agencies purchase supplies and services. The DSCP contract expires in October 2010. A significant decline in volume of sales under this contract, less favorable terms or a failure to renew the contract upon expiration could have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations. Dependence on Significant Suppliers The company distributes products from over 1,400 suppliers and is dependent on these suppliers for the continuing supply of products. In 2009, sales of products of the company’s ten largest suppliers accounted for approximately 54% of revenue. The company relies on suppliers to provide agreeable purchasing and delivery terms and performance incentives. The company’s ability to sustain adequate operating earnings has been, and will continue to be, partially dependent upon its ability to obtain favorable terms and incentives from suppliers, as well as suppliers’ continuing use of third-party distributors to sell and deliver their products. A change in terms by a significant supplier, or the decision of such a supplier to distribute its products directly to healthcare providers rather than through third-party distributors, could have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations. Bankruptcy, Insolvency or other Credit Failure of Customers The company provides credit in the normal course of business to its customers. The company performs initial and ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and maintains reserves for credit losses. The bankruptcy, 10 Table of Contents insolvency or other credit failure of one or more customers with substantial balances due to the company could have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations. Changes in the Healthcare Environment O&M, its customers and its suppliers are subject to extensive federal and state regulations relating to healthcare as well as the policies and practices of the private healthcare insurance industry. In recent years, there have been a number of government and private initiatives to reduce healthcare costs and government spending. These changes have included an increased reliance on managed care; consolidation of competitors, suppliers and customers; and the development of larger, more sophisticated purchasing groups. All of these changes place additional financial pressure on healthcare providers, who in turn seek to reduce the costs and pricing of products and services provided by the company. The company expects the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly and these potential changes, which may include a reduction in government support of healthcare services, adverse changes in legislation or regulations, and reductions in healthcare reimbursement practices, could have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations. In addition, several healthcare reform initiatives are currently pending in Congress that, if passed, could fundamentally change current healthcare delivery and payment systems while expanding access to healthcare. The uncertainties surrounding the components of reform legislation and the effects any adopted legislation would ultimately have on the healthcare industry may have an adverse effect on both customer purchasing and payment behavior and supplier product prices and terms of sale, which would adversely affect the company’s results of operations. Operating Margin Initiatives Competitive pricing pressure has been a significant factor in recent years and management expects this trend to continue. In addition, suppliers continue to seek more restrictive agreements with distributors. The company is working to counteract the effects of these trends through several profitability improvement initiatives, including resource management outsourcing and consulting services offered through OMSolutionsSM, its MediChoice® private label brand of select medical and surgical products, the company’s provision of third-party logistics services through OM Healthcare LogisticsSM and investments in technology enhancements to increase operational efficiency in its distribution centers and to improve customer service support. In addition, the company offers customers a wide range of value-added services, including PANDAC®, Wisdom GoldSM, Clinical Supply SolutionsSM and others, all of which enhance profitability. If these initiatives fail to produce anticipated results, the company’s results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Reliance on Information Systems and Technological Advancement The company relies on information systems to receive, process, analyze and manage data in distributing thousands of inventory items to customers from numerous distribution centers across the country. These systems are also relied upon for billings to and collections from customers, as well as the purchase of and payment for inventory and related transactions from its suppliers. In addition, the success of the company’s long-term growth strategy is dependent upon its ability to continually monitor and upgrade its information systems to provide better service to customers. A third-party service provider, Dell Perot Systems, is responsible for managing a significant portion of the company’s information systems, including key operational and financial systems. The company’s business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected if its systems are interrupted or damaged by unforeseen events or fail to operate for an extended period of time, if it fails to appropriately enhance its systems to support growth and strategic initiatives or if its third-party service provider does not perform satisfactorily. Regulatory Requirements The company must comply with numerous laws and regulations, including those of the Food and Drug Administration, the Department of Transportation, the Department of Homeland Security, the Occupational 11 Table of Contents Safety and Health Administration, state boards of pharmacy, or similar state licensing boards, and other regulatory agencies. Also, the company is subject to various federal and state laws intended to protect the privacy of health or other personal information and prevent healthcare fraud and abuse. Although the company believes it is in material compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, any failure to comply with existing laws and regulations or the imposition of any additional laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business. Strategic Initiatives The company has made and is continuing to make substantial investments in the development and implementation of certain strategic initiatives designed to produce long-term growth in profitability and shareholder value. There can be no assurance that the company will be able to successfully implement its strategic initiatives or that they will produce the desired results. If the company is unsuccessful it could have an adverse effect on the company’s future performance. General Economic Climate Deterioration in the financial and economic climate in recent years is continuing to have a negative impact on most sectors of the U.S. economy. This deterioration in the financial and economic climate could reduce patient demand for healthcare services, intensify pressures on healthcare providers to reduce both costs and purchases of products and services of the company and compromise customers’ ability to timely pay for their purchases. Poor economic conditions could lead the company’s suppliers to offer less favorable terms of purchase to distributors, which would negatively affect the company’s profitability. These and other possible consequences of financial and economic changes including, but not limited to, the ability of banks to honor commitments under the company’s credit facility, as well as the company’s ability to renew or replace its credit facility under favorable terms, could materially and adversely affect the company’s business and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 