Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are certain risk factors that we currently believe could materially affect our business, financial condition and prospects. These risk factors are in addition to those mentioned in other parts of this report and are not all of the risks that we face. Competition in the United States The medical/surgical supply distribution industry in the United States is highly competitive and characterized by intense pricing pressure. We compete with other national distributors and a number of regional and local distributors, as well as customer self-distribution models. Competitive factors within the medical/surgical supply distribution industry include market pricing, total delivered product cost, product availability, the ability to fill and invoice orders accurately, delivery time, range of services provided, efficient product sourcing, inventory management, information technology, electronic commerce capabilities, and the ability to meet customer-specific requirements. Our success is dependent on the ability to compete on the above factors, while managing internal costs and expenses. These competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, in recent years, the healthcare industry in the United States has experienced and continues to experience significant consolidation in response to cost containment legislation and general market pressures to reduce costs. This consolidation of our customers and suppliers generally gives them greater bargaining power to reduce the pricing available to them, which may adversely impact our results of operations. Dependence on Significant Healthcare Provider Customers In 2012, our top ten customers in the United States represented approximately 23% of our consolidated net revenue. In addition, in 2012, approximately 80% of our consolidated net revenue was from sales to member hospitals under contract with our largest group purchasing organizations (GPO): Novation, Premier, Broadlane and MedAssets. We could lose a significant customer or GPO relationship if an existing contract expires without being replaced or is terminated by the customer or GPO prior to its expiration (if permitted by the applicable contract). Although the termination of our relationship with a given GPO would not necessarily result in the loss of all of the member hospitals as customers, any such termination of a GPO relationship, or a significant individual customer relationship, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Dependence on Significant Domestic Suppliers In the United States, we distribute products from nearly 1,300 suppliers and are dependent on these suppliers for the continuing supply of products. In 2012, sales of products of our ten largest domestic suppliers accounted for approximately 55% of revenue. We rely on suppliers to provide agreeable purchasing and delivery terms and performance incentives. Our ability to sustain adequate operating earnings has been, and will continue to be, partially dependent upon our ability to obtain favorable terms and incentives 9 Table of Contents from suppliers, as well as suppliers continuing use of third-party distributors to sell and deliver their products. A change in terms by a significant supplier, or the decision of such a supplier to distribute its products directly to healthcare providers rather than through third-party distributors, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Integration of Acquisitions In connection with our growth strategy, we from time to time acquire other businesses that we believe will expand or complement our existing businesses and operations. On August 31, 2012, we completed our first international acquisition through our purchase of Movianto, which has facilities in 11 European countries and operates throughout the European marketplace. The integration of acquisitions, particularly international acquisitions, involves a number of significant risks, which may include but are not limited to, the following: • Expenses and difficulties in the transition and integration of operations and systems • The assimilation and retention of personnel, including management personnel, in the acquired businesses • Accounting, tax, regulatory and compliance issues that could arise • Difficulties in implementing uniform controls, procedures and policies in our acquired companies, or in remediating control deficiencies in acquired companies not formerly subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 • Retention of current customers and the ability to obtain new customers • Unanticipated expenses incurred or charges to earnings based on unknown circumstances or liabilities • Failure to realize the synergies and other benefits we expect from the acquisition at the pace we anticipate • General economic conditions in the markets in which the acquired businesses operate • Difficulties encountered in conducting business in markets where we have limited experience and expertise If we are unable to successfully complete and integrate our strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our business, growth strategies and results of operations could be adversely affected. International Operations Our acquisition of Movianto represents our first significant movement into the international marketplace. Additionally, in 2011, we entered into a joint venture in China to provide product sourcing services. Operations outside the United States involve issues and risks, including but not limited to the following, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations: • Lack of familiarity with and expertise in conducting business in foreign markets • Foreign currency fluctuations and exchange risk • Unexpected changes in foreign regulations or conditions relating to labor, economic or political environment, and social norms or requirements • Adverse tax consequences and difficulties in repatriating cash generated or held abroad • Local economic environments, such as in the European markets served by Movianto, including recession, inflation, indebtedness, currency volatility and competition • Changes in trade protection laws and other laws affecting trade and investment, including import/export regulations in both the United States and foreign countries International operations are also subject to risks of violation of laws that prohibit improper payments to and bribery of government officials and other individuals and organizations for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. These laws include the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other similar laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions, any violation of which could result in substantial liability and a loss of reputation in the marketplace. Failure to comply with these laws also could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Healthcare Third Party Logistics Business The healthcare third party logistics business in both the United States and abroad is characterized by intense competition from a number of international, regional and local companies, including large conventional logistics companies that are moving into healthcare and pharmaceutical distribution business. This competitive market places continuous pricing pressure on us from customers and suppliers that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to continue to increase our revenues and to offset margin reductions caused by pricing pressures through cost control measures. Changes in the Healthcare Environment in the United States We, along with our customers and suppliers, are subject to extensive federal and state regulations relating to healthcare as well as the policies and practices of the private healthcare insurance industry. In recent years, there have been a number of government and private initiatives to reduce healthcare costs and government spending. These changes have included an increased reliance on managed care; reductions in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement levels; consolidation of competitors, suppliers and customers; and the development of larger, more sophisticated purchasing groups. All of these changes place additional financial pressure on healthcare providers, who in turn seek to reduce the costs and pricing of products and services provided by us. We expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly and these potential changes, which may include a reduction in government support of healthcare services, adverse changes in legislation or regulations, and further reductions in healthcare reimbursement practices, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In March 2010, federal healthcare legislation known as the Affordable Care Act was enacted. This healthcare reform legislation includes, among other things, provisions for expanded Medicaid eligibility and access to healthcare insurance as well as increased taxes and fees on certain corporations and medical products. Effective January 1, 2013, the Affordable Care Act imposes a 2.3% federal excise tax on manufacturers for sales of certain medical devices. In the event these manufacturers attempt to pass all or a portion of this excise tax through to us, or in the event such tax leads manufacturers to offer less favorable terms and incentives to distributors, our profitability could be adversely impacted. The provisions of the Affordable Care Act will not be fully implemented until 2018 and, although there is no way to predict the full impact of the law on the healthcare industry and our operations, its implementation may have an adverse effect on both customer purchasing and payment behavior and supplier product prices and terms of sale, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. Regulatory Requirements We must comply with numerous laws and regulations in the United States, Europe and China. We also are required to hold permits and licenses and to comply with the operational and security standards of various governmental bodies and agencies. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations or any failure to maintain the necessary permits, licenses or approvals, or to comply with the required standards, could disrupt our operations and/or adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. In addition, we are subject to various federal and state laws intended to prevent healthcare fraud and abuse. The requirements of these fraud and abuse laws are complicated and subject to interpretation and may be applied by a regulator, prosecutor or judge in a manner that could negatively impact us financially or operationally. General Economic Climate The deteriorating or stagnant financial and economic climate in recent years continues to have a negative impact on most sectors of the domestic economy and the international markets in which Movianto operates. This uncertain financial and economic climate has reduced patient demand for healthcare services, reduced product price inflation, intensified pressures on healthcare providers to reduce both costs and purchases of our products and services and could compromise our customers’ ability to timely pay for their purchases. Poor economic conditions could lead our suppliers to offer less favorable terms of purchase to distributors, which would negatively affect our profitability. These and other possible consequences of financial and economic changes, including, but not limited to, the ability of banks to honor commitments under our credit facility, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Bankruptcy, Insolvency or other Credit Failure of Customers We provide credit in the normal course of business to customers. We perform initial and ongoing credit evaluations of customers and maintain reserves for credit losses. The bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of one or more customers with substantial balances due to us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Reliance on Information Systems and Technological Advancement We rely on information systems to receive, process, analyze and manage data in distributing thousands of inventory items to customers from numerous distribution and logistics centers. These systems are also relied upon for billings to and collections from customers, as well as the purchase of and payment for inventory and related transactions from our suppliers. In addition, the success of our long-term growth strategy is dependent upon the ability to continually monitor and upgrade our information systems to provide better service to customers. A third-party service provider in the United States, Dell Perot Systems, is responsible for managing a significant portion of our domestic information systems, including key operational and financial systems. Our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected if systems are interrupted or damaged by unforeseen events (including cyber attacks) or fail to operate for an extended period of time, if we fail to appropriately enhance our systems to support growth and strategic initiatives or if our third-party service provider does not perform satisfactorily. Changes in Tax Laws We operate throughout the United States, Europe, and China. As a result we are subjected to the tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments and of various foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, legislative and regulatory initiatives are proposed, including but not limited to proposals to repeal LIFO (last-in, first-out) treatment of domestic inventory or changes in tax accounting methods for inventory or other tax items, that could adversely affect our tax positions, tax rate or cash payments for taxes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 