Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information in this Annual Report, including the risk factors listed below. While we describe each risk separately, some of these risks are interrelated and certain risks could trigger the applicability of other risks described below. Also, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently do not consider significant, could also potentially impair, and have a material adverse effect on, our business, results of operations and financial condition. If any of these risks occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed, the price of our common stock could decline, and future events and circumstances could differ significantly from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. Risks Related to Our Business There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued a report on our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, that states that our recurring losses from operations and net capital deficiency raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our plans concerning these matters are discussed in the section captioned “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 1, “Nature of Operations and Going Concern Uncertainty” to the financial statements filed as part of this Annual Report. Our ability to operate is dependent on meeting our cash obligations as they become due which will depend on our ability to secure debt or equity financing on acceptable terms or otherwise address these matters. If we fail to do so for any reason, we would not be able to continue as a going concern and could potentially be forced to seek relief through a filing under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. We need financing to continue our ongoing operations and will need additional financing in the future. We need financing to continue our ongoing operations and pay our liabilities and we will need additional financing to maintain and expand our business, and financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. We may finance our business through the private placement or public offering of equity or debt securities. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, such financing may result in further dilution to our stockholders. Any equity securities issued also may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional debt securities, these debt securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. If we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we might be required to relinquish significant rights to our technology or products, or to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we need funds and cannot raise them on acceptable terms, we may not be able to execute our business plan and our stockholders may lose substantially all of their investment. 11 We expect to continue to incur operating losses, and if we are not able to raise necessary additional funds we may have to reduce or stop operations. We have not generated revenues or become profitable, may never do so, and may not generate sufficient working capital to cover the cost of operations. Our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities may not be sufficient to fund our business until we can become cash flow positive and we may never become cash flow positive. No party has guaranteed to advance additional funds to us to provide for any operating deficits. Until we begin generating revenue, we may seek funding through the sale of equity, or securities convertible into equity, which could result in further dilution to our then existing stockholders. If we raise additional capital through the incurrence of debt, our business may be affected by the amount of leverage we incur, and our borrowings may subject us to restrictive covenants. Such funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing on a timely basis, we may be required to delay, reduce or stop operations, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. An unfavorable result in the pending arbitration could have a material adverse effect on our business. We consider the protection of our proprietary technology for treatment of kidney failure, which we have licensed and are developing, to be critical to our business prospects. We obtained the rights to some of our most significant patented and patent-pending technologies through a License Agreement with NQCI. On December 1, 2006, Operations initiated arbitration against NQCI for its breach of the License Agreement, which remains pending. NQCI subsequently filed counterclaims seeking to invalidate the License Agreement and claiming monetary damages against us. On June 9, 2008, the arbitrator issued an Interim Award granting specific performance of the Technology Transaction in consideration of NQCI stockholders receiving 48% of all Operations shares outstanding as of the date of the Merger Agreement. On August 4, 2008, the arbitrator issued a Second Interim Award, modifying the initial Interim Award, stating that, if we desire to close the Technology Transaction, we must obtain approval from a majority of our stockholders and issue 9,230,000 shares of our common stock to NQCI. On August 15, 2008, the arbitrator awarded NQCI $1.87 million of over $4 million it claimed in attorneys’ fees and costs. The award has no effect on the additional amount of approximately $690,000 claimed by NQCI in unpaid royalties and alleged expenses under the License Agreement. The arbitrator has not yet ruled on this claim. On September 4, 2008, the arbitrator issued an order that we should issue and deliver the 9,230,000 shares directly to NQCI, rather than directly to NQCI stockholders, if we obtain stockholder approval and elect to proceed with the Technology Transaction. On January 30, 2009, the arbitrator issued the Order, which provides, among other things, that if we file the Proxy Statement, obtain stockholder approval to issue to NQCI 9,230,000 shares of our common stock as consideration for the closing of the Technology Transaction and issue such shares to NQCI, the arbitrator anticipates confirming that all of the Technology covered by the License Agreement shall be declared our sole and exclusive property. The arbitrator held a conference call hearing with the Company and NQCI on March 13, 2009 in which the parties discussed the reasons for the difficulties in closing the Technology Transaction and explored potential alternatives. The parties were asked to submit letter briefs outlining their suggested alternatives for consideration by the arbitrator. The parties submitted their respective letter briefs on March 24, 2009. The arbitrator has stated that he has not yet issued a final award that may be confirmed or challenged in a court of competent jurisdiction. A party to the arbitration could challenge the interim award in court, even after stockholders approve the transaction. In addition, the arbitrator could again change the award by granting different or additional remedies, even after stockholders approve the transaction. We cannot guarantee that the arbitrator would order that stockholders be given another opportunity to vote on the transaction, even if such changes are material. Arbitrators have broad equitable powers, and arbitration awards are difficult to challenge in court, even if the arbitrator makes rulings that are inconsistent or not in accordance with the law or the evidence. Should the arbitrator order a material change to the Second Interim Award, as modified by the Order, after the vote of our stockholders, and further order that our stockholders not be given another opportunity to vote on such proposal or on such material change, such order could conflict with applicable federal securities laws or NYSE Amex rules to which we are subject. In such event, we would ask the arbitrator to amend such changed award or attempt to seek review of the changed award in a court of competent jurisdiction. The closing of the Technology Transaction may render any court review or appeal moot, effectively preventing us from challenging any of the arbitrator’s awards in court. 12 If the arbitrator were to further modify any interim awards or orders, or if NQCI were to prevail on some or all of its claims, we could be prevented from using some or all of the patented technology we licensed from NQCI. That could significantly impact our ability to use and develop our technologies, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our limited operating history may make it difficult to evaluate our business to date and our future viability. We are in the early stage of operations and development, and have only a limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of our business and prospects, having commenced operations in August 2006 in accordance with our new business plan and entry into the medical devices industry. In addition, our operations and developments are subject to all of the risks inherent in the growth of an early stage company. We will be subject to the risks inherent in the ownership and operation of a company with a limited operating history such as regulatory setbacks and delays, fluctuations in expenses, competition, the general strength of regional and national economies, and governmental regulation. Any failure to successfully address these risks and uncertainties would seriously harm our business and prospects. We may not succeed given the technological, marketing, strategic and competitive challenges we will face. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the expenses, difficulties, complications, problems and delays frequently encountered in connection with the growth of a new business, the continuing development of new technology, and the competitive and regulatory environment in which we operate or may choose to operate in the future. We have generated no revenues to date, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop our products and penetrate our target markets. Our success will depend on our ability to retain our managerial personnel and to attract additional personnel. Competition for desirable personnel is strong, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract and retain the necessary staff. The loss of members of managerial, sales or scientific staff could have a material adverse effect on our future operations and on successful development of products for our target markets. The failure to maintain our management, particularly Kelly J. McCrann, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Robert Weinstein, our Chief Financial Officer and Secretary, and Victor Gura, M.D., our Chief Medical and Scientific Officer, and to attract additional key personnel could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we will provide incentive compensation to attract and retain our key personnel, we cannot guarantee that these efforts will be successful. We will need to expand our finance, administrative, product development, sales and marketing, and operations staff. There are no assurances that we will be able to make such hires. However, as discussed above in the section captioned “Recent Developments,” during the first quarter of 2009, we had to adjust our employee headcount to more closely match our capital availability and, as a result, terminated the employment of 19 employees. Assuming that we have sufficient resources, we hope to increase our headcount in the future. In addition, we may be required to enter into relationships with various strategic partners and other third parties necessary to our business. Planned personnel may not be adequate to support our future operations, management may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel or management may not be able to identify, manage and exploit existing and potential strategic relationships and market opportunities. If we fail to manage our growth or personnel needs effectively, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We need to develop our financial and reporting processes, procedures and controls to support our anticipated growth. We have begun investing in our financial and reporting systems. To comply with our public reporting requirements, and manage the anticipated growth of our operations and personnel, we will be required to continue to improve existing or implement new operational and financial systems, processes and procedures, and to expand, train and manage our employee base. Our current and planned systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. The laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted or proposed by the SEC, will result in increased costs to us as we evaluate the implications of any new rules and respond to their requirements. New rules could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. In addition, the need to comply with any new rules and regulations will continue to place significant demands on our financial and accounting staff, financial, accounting and information systems, and our internal controls and procedures, any of which may not be adequate to support our anticipated growth. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs to comply with any new rules and regulations, or if compliance can be achieved. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete development and obtain necessary approvals for our proposed products even if we obtain sufficient funding. We will need additional financing to maintain and expand our business, and such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. Even if we obtain sufficient funding, no assurance can be given that we will be able to design or have designed parts necessary for the manufacture of our products or complete the development of our proposed products within our anticipated time frames, if at all. Such a situation could have a material adverse effect upon our ability to remain in business. For additional risks that we may encounter as a result of our need for additional financing, please see risk factor below captioned “We need financing to continue our ongoing operations and will need additional financing in the future”. 13 The success of our business will depend on our ability to develop and protect our intellectual property rights, which could be expensive. Patent and other proprietary rights are essential to our business. Our success and the competitiveness of our products are heavily dependent upon our proprietary technology and our ability to obtain and enforce patents and licenses to patent rights, both in the U.S. and in other countries. We cannot be certain that the patents that we license from others will be enforceable and afford protection against competitors. We rely on a combination of trademark and copyright laws, trade secrets and know-how to develop, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to maintain and strengthen our competitive position. Such means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate because such laws provide only limited protection. While we protect our proprietary rights to the extent possible, we cannot guarantee that third parties will not know, discover or develop independently equivalent proprietary information or techniques, that they will not gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our trade secrets to the public. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that we can maintain and protect unpatented proprietary information and trade secrets. Misappropriation of our intellectual property would have an adverse effect on our competitive position, may cause us to incur substantial litigation costs and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and your investment. Generally, we enter into confidentiality and non-disclosure of intellectual property agreements with our employees, consultants and many of our vendors, and generally control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Notwithstanding these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without authorization or to develop similar information independently. Additionally, our patent rights may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technologies. Even if such patents are valid, we cannot guarantee that competitors will not independently develop alternative technologies that duplicate the functionality of our technology. Our competitors may independently develop similar or superior technology. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary rights is difficult, and some international laws do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as United States laws. Litigation periodically may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation is costly and may not be successful. Our failure to protect our proprietary technology or manufacturing processes could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and your investment. We may be subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others and unfavorable outcomes could harm our business. Our future operations may be subject to claims, and potential litigation, arising from our alleged infringement of patents, trade secrets or copyrights owned by other third parties, including third party rights in patents that have not yet been issued. We intend to fully comply with the law in avoiding such infringements. However, within the medical devices industry, established companies have actively pursued such infringements, and have initiated such claims and litigation, which has made the entry of competitive products more difficult. We may experience such claims or litigation initiated by existing, better-funded competitors. If we do infringe, the holder of the patent may seek to cause us to cease using the technology subject to the patent, or require us to enter into a license or other similar agreement and pay for our use of the intellectual property. In either case, such event may have a material negative impact on our performance. Court-ordered injunctions may prevent us from bringing new products to market, and the outcome of litigation and any resulting loss of revenues and expenses of litigation may substantially affect our ability to meet our expenses and continue operations. Also, since we rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, there is no assurance that others may not acquire or independently develop the same or similar technology. Patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until patents are issued, and the publication of discoveries in the scientific literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that we will be the first creator of future inventions for which we seek patents or the first to file patent applications for any of our inventions. Patent applications filed in foreign countries are subject to laws, rules and procedures which differ from those of the United States. We cannot be certain that: · patents will be issued from future applications; · any future patents will be sufficient in scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercialadvantage to us; · foreign intellectual property laws will protect our intellectual property; or · others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around any patentswhich may be issued to us. Policing unauthorized use of intellectual property is difficult. The laws of other countries may afford little or no effective protection of our technology. We cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology, which may cause us to lose customers and revenue opportunities. In addition, pursuing persons who might misappropriate our intellectual property could be costly and divert the attention of management from the operation of our business. 14 We are not aware and do not believe that any of our technologies or products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. Nevertheless, third parties may claim infringement with respect to our current or future technologies or products or products manufactured by others and incorporating our technologies. Responding to any such claims, whether or not they are found to have merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause development delays, require us to enter into royalty or license agreements, or require us to cease using the technology that is the intellectual property of a third party. Royalty or license agreements may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. As a result, infringement claims could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Confidentiality agreements with employees, licensees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality provisions in our agreements with employees, licensees, and others. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. We compete against other dialysis equipment manufacturers with much greater financial resources and better established products and customer relationships, which may make it difficult for us to penetrate the market and achieve significant sales of our products. Our proposed products will compete directly against equipment produced by Fresenius Medical Care AG, Baxter Healthcare Corporation, Gambro AB, NxStage Medical, Inc., B Braun and others, each of which markets one or more FDA-cleared medical devices for the treatment of acute or chronic kidney failure. Each of these competitors offers products that have been in use for a longer time than our products and are more widely recognized by physicians, patients and providers. Most of our competitors have significantly more financial and human resources, more established sales, service and customer support infrastructures and spend more on product development and marketing than we do. Many of our competitors also have established relationships with the providers of dialysis therapy. Most of these companies manufacture additional complementary products enabling them to offer a bundle of products and have established sales forces and distribution channels that may afford them a significant competitive advantage. The healthcare business in general, and the market for our products in particular, is competitive, subject to change and affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants, including increased consolidation of ownership of clinics by large dialysis chains. If we are successful, our competitors are likely to develop products that offer features and functionality similar to our proposed products. Improvements in existing competitive products or the introduction of new competitive products may make it more difficult for us to compete for sales, particularly if those competitive products demonstrate better safety, convenience or effectiveness or are offered at lower prices. If we are unable to compete effectively against existing and future competitors and existing and future alternative treatments and pharmacological and technological advances, it will be difficult for us to penetrate the market and achieve significant sales of our products. We have not commissioned or obtained marketing studies which support the likelihood of success of our business plan. No independent studies with regard to the feasibility of our proposed business plan have been conducted by any independent third parties with respect to our present and future business prospects and our capital requirements. In addition, there can be no assurances that our products or our treatment modality for ESRD will find sufficient acceptance in the marketplace to enable us to fulfil our long and short term goals, even if adequate financing is available and our products are approved to come to market, of which there can be no assurance. Our ability to utilize net operating loss carry forwards may be limited. At December 31, 2008, we had net operating loss carry forwards (NOLs) for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes of approximately $24.3 million. These NOLs may be used to offset future taxable income, to the extent we generate any taxable income, and thereby reduce or eliminate our future U.S. federal and California income taxes otherwise payable. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the “Code”, imposes limitations on a corporation’s ability to utilize NOLs if it experiences an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Code. In general terms, an ownership change may result from transactions that have the effect of increasing the percentage ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. In the event of an ownership change, a corporation’s utilization of NOLs generated prior to the ownership change is subject to an annual limitation determined by multiplying the value of the corporation at the time of the ownership change by the “applicable long-term tax-exempt rate,” as defined in the Code. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years. Our NOLs for federal and state income tax purposes begin to expire in 2021. 15 In 2007, we determined that an ownership change occurred under Section 382. The utilization of our federal NOLs, capital loss carryforwards and other tax attributes related to our company prior to the merger with pre-merger Xcorporeal therefore will be limited to zero. Accordingly, we have reduced our NOLs and capital loss and minimum tax credit carryforwards to the amount that we estimate that we would be able to utilize in the future, if profitable, considering the above limitations. At December 31, 2008, after Section 382 reductions we had NOLs for U.S. federal income tax purposes of approximately $24.3 million which NOLs will begin to expire in 2021. $24.3 million of the net NOLs are also valid for state income tax purposes and will begin to expire in 2021. The occurrence of one or more natural disasters or acts of terrorism could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. The occurrence of one or more natural disasters or acts of terrorism could result in physical damage to or the temporary closure of our corporate office and/or operating facility. It may also result in the temporary lack of an adequate work force in a market and/or the temporary or long term disruption in the supply of materials (or a substantial increase in the cost of those materials) from suppliers. One or more natural disasters or acts of terrorism could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Furthermore, insurance costs associated with our business may rise significantly in the event of a large scale natural disaster or act of terrorism. Terrorist attacks and other attacks or acts of war may adversely affect the markets on which our common stock trades, which could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations and the price of our common stock. On September 11, 2001, the United States was the target of terrorist attacks of unprecedented scope. In March 2003, the United States and allied nations commenced a war in Iraq. These attacks and the war in Iraq caused global instability in the financial markets. There could be further acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere that could have a similar impact. Armed hostilities or further acts of terrorism could cause further instability in financial markets and could directly impact our financial condition, our results of operations and the price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industry Our business will always be strictly regulated by the federal and other governments and we cannot assure you that we will remain in compliance with all applicable regulation. The healthcare industry is highly regulated and continues to undergo significant changes as third-party payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, traditional indemnity insurers, managed care organizations and other private payers increase efforts to control cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare services. Healthcare companies are subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local laws, regulations and judicial decisions. In addition, clinical testing, manufacture, promotion and sale of our proposed products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S., principally the FDA, and corresponding foreign regulatory agencies. Compliance with laws and regulations enforced by regulatory agencies who have broad discretion in applying them may be required for the medical products developed or used by us. Many healthcare laws and regulations applicable to our business are complex, applied broadly and subject to interpretation by courts and government agencies. Regulatory, political and legal action and pricing pressures could prevent us from marketing some or all of our products and services for a period of time or permanently. Moreover, changes in existing regulations or adoption of new regulations or policies could prevent us from obtaining, or affect the timing of, future regulatory approvals or clearances. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals on a timely basis, or if at all, or that we will not be required to incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining such foreign regulatory approvals. Delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, such approvals or clearances, the loss of previously obtained approvals or clearances or the failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any enforcement action by regulatory authorities with respect to past or future regulatory non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Non-compliance with applicable requirements can result in fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusal to authorize the marketing of new products or to allow us to enter into supply contracts and criminal prosecution. Even if our proposed products are approved for sale, we will be subject to continuing regulation. We continuously will be subject to routine inspection by the FDA and will have to comply with the host of regulatory requirements that usually apply to medical devices marketed in the U.S. including labelling regulations, Quality System requirements, MDR regulations (which requires a manufacturer to report to the FDA certain types of adverse events involving its products), and the FDA’s prohibitions against promoting products for unapproved or “off-label” uses. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, foreign laws, regulations and requirements applicable to our business and products are often vague and subject to change and interpretation. Failure to comply with applicable international regulatory requirements can result in fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls or seizures of products, total or partial suspensions of production, refusals by foreign governments to permit product sales and criminal prosecution. Furthermore, changes in existing regulations or adoption of new regulations or policies could prevent us from obtaining, or affect the timing of, future regulatory approvals or clearances. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals on a timely basis, or if at all, or that we will not be required to incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining such foreign regulatory approvals. Delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, such approvals or clearances, the loss of previously obtained approvals or clearances or the failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any enforcement action by regulatory authorities with respect to past or future regulatory non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Our failure to respond to rapid changes in technology and its applications and intense competition in the medical devices industry could make our treatment system obsolete. The medical devices industry is subject to rapid and substantial technological development and product innovations. To be successful, we must respond to new developments in technology, new applications of existing technology and new treatment methods. Our response may be stymied if we require, but cannot secure, rights to essential third-party intellectual property. We may compete against companies offering alternative treatment systems to ours, some of which have greater financial, marketing and technical resources to utilize in pursuing technological development and new treatment methods. Our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected if our medical device products fail to compete favorably with these technological developments, or if we fail to be responsive on a timely and effective basis to competitors’ new devices, applications, treatments or price strategies. Product liability claims could adversely affect our results of operations. The risk of product liability claims, product recalls and associated adverse publicity is inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical products. In an effort to minimize our liability we purchase product liability insurance coverage. In the future, we may not be able to secure product liability insurance coverage on acceptable terms or at reasonable costs when needed. Any liability for mandatory damages could exceed the amount of our coverage. A successful product liability claim against us could require us to pay a substantial monetary award. Moreover, a product recall could generate substantial negative publicity about our products and business and inhibit or prevent commercialization of other future product candidates. Risks Related to Our Common Stock If we fail to meet continued listing standards of NYSE Amex, our common stock may be delisted which would have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Our common stock is currently traded on the NYSE Amex under the symbol “XCR”. In order for our securities to be eligible for continued listing on NYSE Amex, we must remain in compliance with certain NYSE Amex continued listing standards. As of December 31, 2008 we were not in compliance with Sections 1003(a)(i), 1003(a)(ii) and 1003(a)(iii) of the Amex Company Guide because our stockholders’ equity was below the level required by the NYSE Amex continued listing standards. Our stockholders’ equity fell below the required standard due to several years of operating losses. NYSE Amex will normally consider suspending dealings in, or removing from the listing of, securities of a company under Section 1003(a)(i) for a company that has stockholders’ equity of less than $2,000,000 if such company has sustained losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in two of its three most recent fiscal years, under Section 1003(a)(ii) for a company that has stockholders’ equity of less than $4,000,000 if such company has sustained losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in three of its four most recent fiscal years or under Section 1003(a)(iii) for a company that has stockholders’ equity of less than $6,000,000 if such company has sustained losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in its five most recent fiscal years. As of December 31, 2008, our stockholders' equity was below that required under Sections 1003(a)(i), 1003(a)(ii) and 1003(a)(iii) of the Amex Company Guide and we have sustained net losses in our five most recent fiscal years. If we receive notification from the NYSE Amex that we are no longer in compliance with their minimum listing requirements and if we fail to regain compliance with such continued listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted which would have a material adverse affect on the price and liquidity of our common stock. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will continue to satisfy other requirements necessary to remain listed on the NYSE Amex or that the NYSE Amex will not take additional actions to delist our common stock. As a result of the resignation of Marc Cummins from his positions of a member of our Board of Directors and a member of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, effective March 6, 2009, we are no longer in compliance with Section 803(A)(1) of the Amex Company Guide because a majority of the members of our Board of Directors are not independent directors. In order to fill the vacancy in the Audit Committee created by such resignation, effective March 26, 2009, Hans-Dietrich Polaschegg, a member of our Board of Directors, was appointed to the Audit Committee. If for any reason, our common stock were to be delisted from the NYSE Amex, we may not be able to list our common stock on another national exchange or market. If our common stock is not listed on a national exchange or market, the trading market for our common stock may become illiquid. 17 If we are delisted from NYSE Amex, our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules of the SEC, which would make transactions in our common stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our stock. The SEC has adopted Rule 3a51-1 under the Exchange Act which establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, Rule 15g-9 requires: · that a broker or dealer approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks; and · the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: · obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and · make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: · sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and · that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. This may make it more difficult for our investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent to investors disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Our stock price is volatile and accordingly, you could lose all or part of the value of your shares of our common stock. Our common stock is traded on the NYSE Amex and trading volume is often limited and sporadic. As a result, the trading price of our common stock on NYSE Amex is not necessarily a reliable indicator of our fair market value. The market price of our common stock has historically been highly volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: · the number of shares available for sale in the market; · sales of our common stock by shareholders because our business profile does not fit their investment objectives; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; · developments relating to our products and related proprietary rights; · actual or anticipated announcements of new data and announcements relating to our operating performance; · government regulations and changes thereto and regulatory investigations or determinations; · our ability to meet continued listing standards of NYSE Amex · announcements of our competitors or their success in the biotechnology and healthcare equipment business, including those in the dialysis industry; · recruitment or departures of key personnel; · the gain or loss of significant customers; · the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; · developments and publicity regarding our industry; and · general economic and market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual performance, and could enhance the effect of any fluctuations that do relate to our operating results. 18 Over 42% of our stock is controlled by a single stockholder which has the ability to substantially influence the election of directors and the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2008, Consolidated National, LLC, a limited liability company, or “CNL”, of which Terren S. Peizer, a member of our Board of Directors, is the sole managing member and beneficial owner, directly owned approximately 6.23 million shares, representing approximately 42.2% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, CNL and Mr. Peizer presently have and are expected to continue to have the ability to determine the outcome of issues submitted to our stockholders. The interests of CNL or Mr. Peizer, acting in his capacity as a stockholder, may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of our other stockholders and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of our stockholders. The ownership position of CNL and Mr. Peizer may make it difficult for our stockholders to remove our management from office should they choose to do so. It could also deter unsolicited takeovers, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. Pursuant to the terms of the Second Interim Award, as modified by the Order, if we desire to close the Technology Transaction, we will be required to issue 9,230,000 shares of our common stock to NQCI and a result, NQCI would own approximately 39% of our total outstanding shares, making NQCI our largest stockholder and giving NQCI the ability to substantially influence the election of directors and the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders. On August 4, 2008, the arbitrator issued a Second Interim Award, modifying the initial Interim Award, stating that, if we desire to close the Technology Transaction, we must, among other things, issue to NQCI 9,230,000 shares of our common stock. Accordingly, following the closing of the Technology Transaction, NQCI would own approximately 39% of our total outstanding shares, making NQCI our largest stockholder. As a result, NQCI would have the ability to determine the outcome of issues submitted to our stockholders. The interests of NQCI may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of our other stockholders and it may act in a manner that advances its best interests and not necessarily those of our stockholders. The ownership position of NQCI may make it difficult for our stockholders to remove our management from office should they choose to do so. It could also deter unsolicited takeovers, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. Sales of common stock by our large stockholders, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by, or the perceived possibility of sales by, our large stockholders, including NQCI in the event that the Technology Transaction closes. Most of our outstanding shares were registered on a Form S-4 registration statement in connection with our merger with pre-merger Xcorporeal, and are eligible for public resale. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 58% of our outstanding common stock was held by our officers, directors and affiliates and may be sold pursuant to an effective registration statement or in accordance with Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act or pursuant to other exempt transactions. Pursuant to the terms of the Second Interim Award, as modified by the order, we are required to issue NQCI 9,230,000 shares of our common stock if we want to close the Technology Transaction. Future sales of our common stock by our significant stockholders, including NQCI if it acquires these shares, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the market price of our common stock. Investors’ interests in our company will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share if we issue additional shares of stock or raise funds through the sale of equity securities. In the event that we are required to issue any additional shares of stock or enter into private placements to raise financing through the sale of equity securities, investors’ interests in our company will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share depending on the price at which such securities are sold. If we issue any such additional shares, such issuances also will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all of our other stockholders. Further, any such issuance may result in a change in our control of our company. We have never paid cash dividends and do not intend to do so. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently plan to retain any earnings to finance the growth of our business rather than to pay cash dividends. Payments of any cash dividends in the future will depend on our financial condition, results of operations and capital requirements, as well as other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. There is an increased potential for short sales of our common stock due to the sales of shares issued upon exercise of the warrants or options, which could materially affect the market price of the stock. Downward pressure on the market price of our common stock that likely will result from sales of our common stock issued in connection with an exercise of warrants or options could encourage short sales of our common stock by market participants. Generally, short selling means selling a security, contract or commodity not owned by the seller. The seller is committed to eventually purchase the financial instrument previously sold. Short sales are used to capitalize on an expected decline in the security’s price. As the holders exercise their warrants or options, we issue shares to the exercising holders, which such holders may then sell into the market. Such sales could have a tendency to depress the price of the stock, which could increase the potential for short sales. 19 We became a publicly traded company through a merger with a public shell company, and we could be liable for unanticipated liabilities of our predecessor entity. We became a publicly traded company through a merger between Xcorporeal, Inc. and CT Holdings Enterprises, Inc., a publicly traded “shell company” that had previously provided management expertise including consulting on operations, marketing and strategic planning and a single source of capital to early stage technology companies. Although we believe the shell company had substantially no assets and liabilities as of the merger, we may be subject to claims related to the historical business of the shell, as well as costs and expenses related to the merger. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 