Item 1A. Risk Factors The Trustee does not know the exact amount or timing, if any, of the final liquidation distribution. The Trustee cannot assure you of the nature and amount of any distribution to the Beneficiaries. The methods used by the Trustee in estimating liabilities are based on estimates and may not approximate the actual costs incurred. The Trustee’s assessment assumes that the estimates of liabilities and operating costs are accurate, but those estimates are subject to numerous uncertainties beyond the Trustee’s control, including any new contingent liabilities that may materialize. The Trust is currently unable to predict any distributions to the Beneficiaries. If the Trust is unable to satisfy all of the obligations to creditors, or if the future expenses have been underestimated, the amount of liquidation proceeds will be reduced. Claims, liabilities and expenses from operations (such as operating costs, taxes, legal and accounting fees and miscellaneous office expenses) will continue to be incurred through the liquidation process. These expenses will reduce the amounts ultimately available for distribution to the Beneficiaries, if any. To the extent the liabilities exceed the estimates, the amount of liquidation proceeds, if any, will be reduced. If the liquidation costs or unpaid liabilities are greater than expected, distribution(s) may be delayed or reduced, if any. Before making any final distribution, the Trust will need to pay or arrange for the payment of all costs in the liquidation and all valid claims of creditors. The Trustee may also decide to establish a reserve fund to pay for any contingent claims. To the extent of any underestimated claims or liabilities, the actual aggregate liquidating distributions, if any, will be reduced. Further, if a reserve fund is established, payment of any final distribution to the Beneficiaries may be delayed or reduced. Distributions to the Beneficiaries could be delayed. All or a portion of the distribution(s), if any, from the Trust to its Beneficiaries could be delayed, depending on many factors, including if a creditor seeks an injunction against the making of distributions to the Beneficiaries on the ground that the amounts to be distributed were needed to provide for the payment of our liabilities and expenses. Any action of this type could delay or substantially diminish the amount available for distribution to the beneficiaries. As a result of these and other factors, the Trustee may need to hold back, for transfer to the Beneficiaries at a later date, if at all, some or all of such distributions. The liquidation of the assets may result in the expedited filing of lawsuits against the Trust. Because the Trust is continuing to liquidate the assets formerly owned by the Company, it may be more likely that third parties will decide to file lawsuits against the Trust and that they will expedite the filing of such lawsuits. There can be no assurance that the costs related to the defense against and the outcome of any such lawsuits will not have a material adverse effect on the amounts and timing of any distributions made to the Beneficiaries. 3 Beneficiaries may be liable to creditors for amounts received from the Trust, or the Company prior to its dissolution, if the reserves are inadequate. If the Trust makes distributions to the Beneficiaries without making adequate provisions for payment of creditors’ claims, the Beneficiaries would be liable to the creditors to the extent of the unlawful distributions. The liability of a Beneficiary is, however, limited to the amounts previously received by such Beneficiary from the Trust (or from the Company prior to its dissolution). Accordingly, in such event, a Beneficiary could be required to return all liquidating distributions previously made to such Beneficiary. Moreover, in the event a Beneficiary has paid taxes on amounts previously received as a liquidation distribution, a repayment of all or a portion of such amount could result in a Beneficiary incurring a net tax cost if the Beneficiary’s repayment of an amount previously distributed does not cause a commensurate reduction in taxes payable. Therefore, to the extent that the Trust has underestimated any liabilities and distributions to the Beneficiaries have already been made (either by us or by the Company prior to its dissolution), the Beneficiaries may be required to return some or all of such distributions. Recordation of transfers of the common stock on the stock transfer books has been restricted as of March 25, 2010, and as a result it is not possible for the Company’s former stockholders to change record ownership of the stock. Since March 25, 2010, recording of transfers of the common stock has been discontinued. Certificates representing the common stock have been deemed cancelled and are not assignable or transferable on the books of the Company’s transfer agent except by will, intestate succession or operation of law, and are no longer traded in the open market. Further, the common stock has been deregistered with the SEC thereby discontinuing the Company’s reporting obligations under the Exchange Act. From and after March 25, 2010, and subject to applicable law, the common stock is treated as no longer being outstanding and each holder of the common stock ceased to have any rights in respect thereof, except the right to receive distributions pursuant to and in accordance with the Plan of Liquidation. The proportionate interests of all of the stockholders have been fixed in the books on the basis of their respective stock holdings at the close of business on March 25, 2010. Further, after March 25, 2010, any transfers to the Liquidating Trust that are made for eventual distributions to the beneficiaries of the trust, if any, will be made solely to the stockholders of record at the close of business on March 25, 2010 (except as may be necessary to reflect subsequent transfers recorded on the Trust’s books as a result of any assignments by will, intestate succession or operation of law). The Trust may be required to continue to incur the expenses of complying with public company reporting requirements. During the three-year period from the date of the transfer of the Remaining Assets to the Trust, the Trustee anticipates to continue to file Current Reports on Form 8-K to disclose material events relating to the liquidation and to distribute to holders of beneficial interests of the Trust annual reports containing unaudited financial statements of the Liquidating Trust similar in content to this Annual Report. The Trustee will file such reports under the cover of Form 10-K and each Form 10-K will include as an exhibit a customary certification of the Trustee similar in form to those described in such no-action letters. In order to fulfill such filings, the Trust may incur related expenses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 