Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below highlight some of the factors that could materially affect our operations. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results may be adversely affected. These are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. We operate in a competitive and rapidly changing business environment, and additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impact us. We operate in a highly competitive industry and our success depends on the reputation and value of our brand names and our ability to offer innovative and market appropriate products that respond to rapidly changing fashion trends; any failure to maintain the reputation or value of our brands, to offer innovative, fashionable and desirable brands and products and/or to appropriately respond to competitive factors within our industry could adversely affect our business operations and financial condition. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the apparel industry are the reputation, value and image of our brand names; design; consumer preference; price; quality; marketing; and customer service. The value of our brands could be diminished by actions taken by us or by our wholesale customers or others, including marketing partners, who have interests in the brands, including by failing to respond to emerging fashion trends or by becoming overly promotional. We cannot always control the marketing and promotion of our products by our wholesale customers or other third parties and actions by such parties that are inconsistent with our own marketing efforts or that otherwise adversely affect the appeal of our products could diminish the value or reputation of one or more of our brands and have an adverse effect on our sales and business operations. During fiscal 2011, Tommy Bahama's net sales represented approximately 60% of our consolidated net sales, while Lilly Pulitzer's and Ben Sherman's net sales represented approximately 12% and 12%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. The limited diversification in our portfolio may heighten the risks we face if one of our brands fails to meet our expectations and/or is adversely impacted by any actions we or third parties take with respect to that brand or by competitive conditions in the apparel industry. Although certain of our products carry over from season to season, the apparel industry in general, and to a heightened degree in recent years due to the emergence of social media tools, is subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and shifting consumer demands, particularly for our lifestyle branded Tommy Bahama, Lilly Pulitzer and Ben Sherman products. Accordingly, we must anticipate, identify and capitalize upon emerging fashion trends. Due to the competitive nature of the apparel industry, there can be no assurance that the demand for our products will not decline or that we will be able to successfully evaluate and adapt our products to align with consumers' preferences, fashion trends and changes in consumer demographics. As is typical with new products, market acceptance of new price points and designs is subject to uncertainty. The introduction or repositioning of new lines and products and the entry of our products into new geographic territories often requires substantial costs in design, marketing and advertising, which may not be recovered if the products are not successful. Any failure on our part to develop appealing products and update core products could result in lower sales, operating losses and/or harm the reputation and desirability of our brands. Additionally, since we generally make decisions regarding product designs several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be measured, such a failure could leave us with a substantial amount of unsold excess inventory, which we may be forced to sell at lower price points. The highly competitive apparel industry includes numerous domestic and foreign apparel designers, manufacturers, distributors, importers, licensors and retailers, some of whom may also be our customers and some of whom are significantly larger, more diversified and have significantly greater financial resources than we do. The level and nature of our competition varies, and the number of our direct competitors and the intensity of competition may increase as we expand into other markets or product lines or as other companies expand into our markets or product lines. Certain of our competitors offer apparel for sale at significant discounts, particularly in response to weak economic conditions, which 25 Table of Contents results in more pressure to reduce prices or the risk that our products may not be as desirable as lower priced products. Competitive factors within the apparel industry may result in reduced sales, increased costs, lower prices for our products and/or decreased margins. We also license certain of our brands, including Tommy Bahama, Lilly Pulitzer and Ben Sherman, to third party licensees. While we enter into comprehensive license agreements with these third parties covering product design, product quality, sourcing, manufacturing and marketing requirements and approvals, there can be no guarantee our brands will not be negatively impacted through our association with products outside of our core apparel products or due to the actions of a licensee. The improper or detrimental actions of a licensee could significantly impact the perception of our brands. In addition, the reputation of our brands could be harmed if our third party manufacturers and vendors, substantially all of which are located outside the United States, fail to meet our product safety, product quality and social compliance standards. We cannot assure that our manufacturers and vendors will at all times conduct their operations in accordance with ethical practices or that the products we purchase will always meet our safety and quality control standards. Any violation of our applicable codes of conduct or local laws relating to labor conditions by our manufacturers or vendors or other actions or failures by us or such parties may result in negative public perception of our brands or products, as well as disrupt our supply chain, adversely affecting our business operations. The apparel industry is heavily influenced by general economic conditions, and a deterioration or worsening of consumer confidence or consumer purchases of discretionary products may adversely affect our business and financial condition. The apparel industry is cyclical and dependent upon the overall level of discretionary consumer spending, which changes as regional, domestic and international economic conditions change. Demand for our products is significantly impacted by trends in consumer confidence and discretionary consumer spending, which may be influenced by employment levels, recessions, fuel and energy costs, availability of personal credit, interest rates, tax rates and changes in tax laws, personal debt levels, housing prices, stock market volatility, general political conditions and other factors. The factors impacting consumer confidence and discretionary consumer spending are outside of our control and difficult to predict, and, often, the apparel industry experiences longer periods of recession and greater declines than the general economy. Starting in 2008 and continuing through 2009, the economies of the United States, United Kingdom and other parts of the world weakened as a result of the global economic crisis. We saw modest improvement in economic conditions in the United States during fiscal 2010 and through fiscal 2011. However, the European sovereign debt crisis and its impact on global financial systems continues to result in volatility in the European markets, and unstable political conditions in the Middle East and some other parts of the world have created significant global economic and political uncertainties, which could have an adverse impact on consumer demand for our products and also result in disruptions to sourcing of our products from foreign markets. There are no assurances that the United States or global economy will recover in the near future or that recessionary conditions will not return to these markets, and any deterioration or worsening of consumer confidence or discretionary consumer spending could reduce our sales, increase our costs of goods sold or require us to significantly modify our current business practices. Additionally, significant changes in the operations or liquidity of any of the parties with which we conduct our business, including suppliers, customers, trademark licensees and lenders, among others, now or in the future, or in the access to capital markets for any such parties, could result in lower demand for our products, lower sales, higher costs or other disruptions in our business. 26 Table of Contents Changes in international trade regulation and risks relating to the importation of our products may cause our products to become less competitive, disrupt our supply chain and/or adversely affect our operations. As we source substantially all of our products from foreign countries, including making approximately 70% of our product purchases from China during fiscal 2011, we are exposed to risks associated with changes in the laws and regulations governing the importing and exporting of apparel products into and from the countries in which we operate. Some of the risks associated with importing our products from foreign countries include quotas imposed by countries in which our products are manufactured or countries into which our products are imported, which limit the amount and type of goods that may be imported annually from or into these countries; changes in social, political, labor and economic conditions or terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers are located; the imposition of additional or new duties, tariffs, taxes or other changes and shifts in sourcing patterns as a result of such changes; significant delays in the delivery of our products, due to security or other considerations; fluctuations in sourcing costs; the imposition of antidumping or countervailing duties; fluctuations in the value of the dollar against foreign currencies; and restrictions on the transfer of funds to or from foreign countries. Our, or any of our suppliers', failure to comply with customs or similar laws or any other applicable regulations could restrict our ability to import products or lead to fines, penalties or adverse publicity, and future regulatory actions or trade agreements may provide our competitors with a material advantage over us or materially increase our costs. We rely to a large extent on third party producers in foreign countries to meet our production demands and failures by these producers to meet our requirements, or the unavailability of suitable producers at reasonable prices, may negatively impact our ability to deliver quality products to our customers on a timely basis or result in higher costs or reduced net sales. We source substantially all of our products from non-exclusive, third party producers located in foreign countries. Although we place a high value on long-term relationships with our suppliers, generally we do not have long-term contracts but, instead, conduct business on an order-by-order basis. Therefore, we compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers. We regularly depend upon the ability of third party producers to secure a sufficient supply of raw materials, adequately finance the production of goods ordered and maintain sufficient manufacturing and shipping capacity. Although we monitor production in third party manufacturing locations, we cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with our manufacturers, such as the reduction of availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications, insufficient quality control, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. Such difficulties may negatively impact our ability to deliver quality products to our customers on a timely basis, which may, in turn, have a negative impact on our customer relationships and result in lower net sales. Loss of one or more of our key wholesale customers, or a significant adverse change in a customer's financial performance or financial position could negatively impact our net sales and profitability. We generate a significant percentage of our wholesale sales from a few major customers. During fiscal 2011, sales to our five largest customers accounted for approximately 40% of our consolidated wholesale sales and sales to our largest wholesale customer represented approximately 14% of our consolidated wholesale sales. A decrease in the number of stores that carry our products, restructuring of our customers' operations, more centralized purchasing decisions, direct sourcing and greater leverage by customers, as a result of further consolidation in the retail industry or otherwise could 27 Table of Contents result in lower prices, realignment of customer affiliations or other factors which could negatively impact our net sales and profitability. We generally do not have long-term contracts with any of our customers. Instead, we rely on long-standing relationships with these customers and our position within the marketplace. As a result, purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis, and each relationship can generally be terminated by either party at any time. A decision by one or more of our major customers to terminate its relationship with us or to reduce its purchases from us, whether motivated by competitive considerations, quality or style issues, financial difficulties, economic conditions or otherwise, could adversely affect our net sales and profitability, as it would be difficult to immediately, if at all, replace this business with new customers or increase sales volumes with other existing customers. In addition, due to long product lead times, our product lines are typically designed and manufactured in anticipation of orders for sale. We make commitments for production in connection with these lines. These commitments can be made up to several months prior to the receipt of firm orders from customers, and if orders do not materialize or are canceled, we may incur expenses to terminate our production commitments or to dispose of excess inventories. We also extend credit to several of our key customers without requiring collateral, which results in a large amount of receivables from just a few customers. Companies in the apparel industry, including some of our customers, may continue to experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcies, restructurings and reorganizations, tightened credit markets and/or declining sales and profitability on a comparable store basis. A significant adverse change in a customer's financial position could cause us to limit or discontinue business with that customer, require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer's receivables or limit our ability to collect amounts related to previous shipments to that customer. Our operations are reliant on information technology and any interruption or other failure, including at one of our principal distribution facilities, may impair our ability to provide products to our customers and meet the needs of management. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on information technology. Information systems are used in all stages of our operations from design to distribution and as a method of communication with our customers and suppliers. Additionally, certain of our operating groups utilize e-commerce websites to sell goods directly to consumers. Our management also relies on information systems to provide relevant and accurate information in order to allocate resources and forecast and report our operating results. Service interruptions may occur as a result of a number of factors, including power outages, computer viruses, hacking or other unlawful activities by third parties, disasters, or failures to properly install, upgrade, integrate, protect, repair or maintain our systems and e-commerce websites. We regularly evaluate upgrades or enhancements to our information systems to more efficiently and competitively operate our business and are in the process of upgrading certain of our businesses' systems to an integrated financial system. We may experience difficulties during this implementation and/or not be equipped to address system problems. Any material disruption in our information technology systems, or any failure to timely, efficiently and effectively integrate new systems, could have an adverse affect on our business or results of operations. In addition, our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies depends on the proper operation of our primary distribution facilities, some of which are owned and others of which are operated by third parties. Finished garments from our contractors are inspected and stored at these distribution facilities. If any of these distribution facilities were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, including as a result of natural or man-made disasters, cybersecurity attacks, computer viruses or otherwise, if our 28 Table of Contents distribution facilities fail to upgrade their technological systems to ensure efficient operations, or if the goods in the distribution center were otherwise unavailable for shipment, as a result of a technology failure or otherwise, we could experience a reduction in sales, a substantial loss of inventory or higher costs and longer lead times associated with the distribution of our products during the time it takes to reopen or replace the facility or to restore the technological capabilities of the facility. This could negatively affect our operating results and our customer relationships. Breaches of information security or privacy could damage our reputation or credibility. As an ongoing part of our business operations, including marketing through various social media tools, we regularly collect and utilize sensitive and confidential personal information. The regulatory environment governing our use of individually identifiable data of customers, employees and others is complex, and the security of personal information is a matter of public concern. Despite our implementation of security measures, if an actual or perceived data security breach occurs, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks, computer viruses, vandalism, human error or otherwise, our reputation and credibility could be damaged and we could experience lost sales. In addition, privacy and information security laws and requirements change frequently, and compliance with them may require us to modify our operations and/or incur costs to make necessary systems changes and implement new administrative processes, or our failure with these laws and regulations could lead to fines, penalties or adverse publicity. Our business is subject to various federal, foreign, state and local laws and regulations, and the costs of compliance with, or the violation of, such laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our costs or operations. In the United States, we are subject to increasingly stringent and complex standards, laws and other regulations, including those relating to health, product performance and safety, labor, employment, privacy and data security, consumer protection, taxation, logistics and similar operational issues. These laws and regulations include among others the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 and California Proposition 65, particularly given the concentration of our retail stores in the State of California, as well as a wide range of state and local laws and regulations governing employment, safety and other matters that impact our retail and restaurant operations. In addition, operating in foreign jurisdictions, including those where we may open retail stores in the future, requires compliance with similar laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are complex and often vary widely by jurisdiction, making it difficult for us to ensure that we are currently or will be in the future compliant with all applicable laws and regulations. We may be required to make significant expenditures or modify our business practices to comply with existing or future laws or regulations, and unfavorable resolution to litigation or a violation of applicable laws and regulations may increase our costs and materially limit our ability to operate our business. In addition, the restaurant industry is highly competitive and requires compliance with a variety of federal, state and local regulations. In particular, all of our Tommy Bahama restaurants serve alcohol and, therefore, maintain liquor licenses. Our ability to maintain our liquor licenses depends on our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The loss of a liquor license would adversely affect the profitability of a restaurant. Additionally, as a participant in the restaurant industry, we face risks related to food quality, food-borne illness, injury, health inspection scores and labor relations. Regardless of whether allegations related to these matters are valid or whether we become liable, we may be materially affected by negative publicity associated with these issues. The negative impact of adverse publicity relating to one restaurant may extend beyond the restaurant involved to affect some or all of the other restaurants, as well as the image of the Tommy Bahama brand as a whole. 29 Table of Contents Our business depends on our senior management and other key personnel, and the unexpected loss of individuals integral to our business, our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future or our failure to successfully plan for and implement succession of our senior management and key personnel may have an adverse effect on our operations, business relationships and ability to execute our strategies. Our senior management has substantial experience and expertise in the apparel and related industries. Our success depends upon disciplined execution at all levels of our organization, including the members of our senior management. Competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense, and we compete to attract and retain these individuals with other companies which may have greater financial resources. In addition, we will need to plan for the succession of our senior management and successfully integrate new members of management within our organization. This may include situations in which individuals join our company as a result of acquisitions that we make and may be more familiar with certain of the operational aspects of acquired businesses than other members of our management, such as our employment of the pre-acquisition principals of the Lilly Pulitzer brand and operations to lead our Lilly Pulitzer Group. The unexpected loss of any of our senior management, or the unsuccessful integration of new leadership, could negatively affect our operations, business relationships and ability to execute our strategies. The acquisition of new businesses has certain inherent risks, including, for example, strains on our management team, unexpected acquisition costs, and, in some instances, contingent payments. From time to time, we acquire new businesses or product lines when we believe appropriate investment opportunities are available. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we acquired the Lilly Pulitzer brand and operations. As a result of acquisitions, we may become responsible for unexpected liabilities that we failed or were unable to discover in the course of performing due diligence. Although we may be entitled to indemnification against undisclosed liabilities from the sellers of the acquired business, we cannot be certain that the indemnification, even if obtained, will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with the business or assets acquired. Any of these liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, integrating acquired businesses is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. The integration process for newly acquired businesses could create for us a number of challenges and adverse consequences associated with the integration of product lines, employees, sales teams and outsourced manufacturers; employee turnover, including key management and creative personnel of the acquired and existing businesses; disruption in product cycles for newly acquired product lines; maintenance of acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies; and the impairment of relationships with customers of the acquired and existing businesses. Further, we may not be able to manage the combined operations and assets effectively or realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. In connection with our acquisition of the Lilly Pulitzer brand and operations, we entered into a contingent consideration agreement with the selling shareholders that may require us to pay up to an aggregate of $20 million in performance-based contingent payments over a period ending in 2015. Although we are only required to make these payments if the acquired business is successful, the contingent payments are payable based on that business achieving earnings targets. As of January 28, 2012, the selling shareholders had earned $2.5 million in contingent consideration payments under this agreement based on our Lilly Pulitzer Group's financial results during fiscal 2011. If Lilly Pulitzer is successful but the rest of our business is not successful, we may have difficulty making the contingent payments. The principal shareholders from whom we acquired the Lilly Pulitzer brand and operations, 30 Table of Contents are key members of management of our Lilly Pulitzer Group. It is possible that their interests with respect to the contingent payments will differ from our interests or those of our shareholders. We may be unable to grow our business through organic growth and/or, if and when appropriate, acquisitions of lifestyle brands that fit within our business model, and any failure to successfully execute this aspect of our business strategy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. One component of our business strategy is to grow our business through organic growth and/or, if and when appropriate, acquisitions of lifestyle brands that fit within our business model, such as our acquisition of the Lilly Pulitzer brand and operations in December 2010. Organic growth may be achieved by, among other things, increasing our market share in existing markets, including to existing wholesale customers; selling our products in new markets, including international markets; increasing sales in our direct to consumer channels; and increasing the product offerings within our various operating groups. Successful growth of our business through organic growth and/or acquisitions is subject to, among other things, the ability of our management to implement plans for expanding our existing businesses and our ability to find suitable acquisition candidates at reasonable prices in the future. We may not be successful in this regard, and our inability to grow our business may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We make use of debt to finance our operations, which exposes us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial position and operating results. Our levels of debt vary as a result of the seasonality of our business, investments in acquisitions and working capital and divestitures. As of January 28, 2012, we had $105 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of our 113/8% Senior Secured Notes, no borrowings outstanding under our U.S. Revolving Credit Agreement and $2.6 million in borrowings outstanding under our U.K. Revolving Credit Agreement. Our debt levels may increase in the future under our existing facilities or potentially under new facilities, or the terms or forms of our financing arrangements in the future may change. Our indebtedness includes, and any future indebtedness may include, certain obligations and limitations, including the periodic payment of principal and interest, maintenance of certain covenants and certain other limitations related to additional debt, dividend payments, investments and dispositions of assets. Our ability to satisfy these obligations will be dependent upon our business, financial condition and operating results, and obligations and limitations under future financing arrangements may be more onerous than those currently in effect. These obligations and limitations may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and limit our flexibility in carrying out our business plan and planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industry in which we operate. In addition, we have interest rate risk on indebtedness under our U.S. Revolving Credit Agreement and U.K. Revolving Credit Agreement. Our exposure to variable rate indebtedness may increase in the future, based on our working capital needs and/or the terms of future financing arrangements. We have not historically engaged in hedging activities with respect to our interest rate risk, and an increase in interest rates may require us to pay a greater amount of our funds from operations towards interest, even if the amount of borrowings outstanding remains the same. As a result, we may have to revise or delay our business plans, reduce or delay capital expenditures or otherwise adjust our plans for operations. Although we believe we may have an opportunity to reduce our interest expense for future periods by redeeming our 113/8% Senior Secured Notes, there are no assurances that financing opportunities on terms that are satisfactory will be available to us in order to redeem these notes. Our 113/8% Senior Secured Notes are redeemable, at our option, beginning on July 15, 2012, on not less than 30 nor more 31 Table of Contents than 60 days' prior notice at 105.688% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, which redemption price will decrease in subsequent years. In particular, continued instability in global financial markets may limit our access to credit or capital markets at appropriate times or on acceptable terms. Restricted access to financing opportunities may also make it difficult for us to replace our U.S. Revolving Credit Agreement, which together with cash from operations provides us with access to funds for working capital purposes, when it matures in August 2013 on terms that are desirable. Fluctuations and volatility in the cost and availability of raw materials, labor and freight may materially increase our costs. Most of the products we purchase from third party producers are package purchases, which means that we purchase the finished goods manufactured to our design and fabric specifications from third party producers whom we rely on to secure the fabric and raw materials. We and our third party suppliers rely on the availability of raw materials at reasonable prices. The principal fabrics used in our business are cotton, linens, wools, silk, other natural fibers, synthetics and blends of these materials. The prices paid for these fabrics depend on the market price for raw materials used to produce them. In addition, the cost of the materials that are used in our manufacturing process, such as oil-related commodity prices and other raw materials, such as dyes and chemicals, and other costs, can fluctuate. The cost and availability of raw materials and materials used in the manufacturing process for our products may be further impacted by legislation and regulations associated with global climate change. During fiscal 2011, we saw a sustained increase in the costs of raw materials, particularly cotton, as a result of rising demand from the economic recovery, weather-related supply disruptions, significant declines in U.S. inventory and a sharp rise in the futures market for cotton. We historically have not entered into any futures contracts to hedge commodity prices. We are also dependent on the availability of raw materials for our suppliers. Our suppliers may experience shortages of raw materials, which could also result in delays in deliveries of our products. During fiscal 2011, we saw increases in the cost of labor at many of our suppliers, particularly in China which experienced labor shortages in certain areas, as the value of the U.S. dollar declined, as well as in freight costs, resulting from increased oil prices and unrest in the Middle East. We believe that these cost pressures may not be alleviated in the near future and could increase. Although we attempt to mitigate the effect of increases in our cost of goods sold through sourcing initiatives and by selectively increasing the prices of our products, any significant or sustained increase in the price of raw materials, labor and/or freight or other variable costs associated with our sourcing of products may materially increase our costs, and we may be unable to fully pass on these costs to our customers. Our geographical concentration of retail stores and wholesale customers for certain of our products exposes us to certain regional risks. Our retail locations are heavily concentrated in certain geographic areas in the United States, including Florida and California for our Tommy Bahama retail stores, Florida for our Lilly Pulitzer retail stores and the United Kingdom for our Ben Sherman retail stores. As of January 28, 2012, 43 out of our 96 Tommy Bahama retail stores were located in California and Florida, five out of our 16 Lilly Pulitzer retail stores were located in Florida and 10 out of our 16 owned Ben Sherman retail stores were located in the United Kingdom. Additionally, a significant portion of our wholesale sales for Tommy Bahama, Lilly Pulitzer and Ben Sherman products are concentrated in the same geographic areas as our own retail store locations for these brands. Due to this concentration, we have heightened exposure to factors that impact these regions, including general economic conditions, weather patterns, natural disasters, changing demographics and other factors. 32 Table of Contents We may not be successful in identifying locations and negotiating appropriate lease terms for retail stores and restaurants. An integral part of our strategy has been to develop and operate retail stores and restaurants for certain of our lifestyle brands. Net sales from our retail stores and restaurants were approximately 43% of our consolidated net sales during fiscal 2011. We expect to increase the number of our retail stores and restaurants during fiscal 2012 and in future years, including opening Tommy Bahama retail stores in geographic territories where we have not previously operated Tommy Bahama retail stores. Successful operation of our retail stores and restaurants depends, in part, on our ability to identify desirable, brand appropriate retail locations, the overall ability of the retail location to attract a consumer base sufficient to make store sales volume profitable, and our ability to negotiate satisfactory lease terms and employ qualified personnel. If we are unable to identify new locations with consumer traffic sufficient to support a profitable sales level or the local market reception to a new retail store opening is inconsistent with our expectations, retail growth may be limited. Further, if existing retail stores and restaurants do not maintain a sufficient customer base that provides a reasonable sales volume, it could have a negative impact on our sales, gross margin, and results of operations. From time to time, we seek to downsize or close some of our retail store or restaurant operations, which may require a modification or termination of an existing lease; such actions may require payment of exit fees and/or result in fixed asset impairment charges, the amounts of which could be material. In addition, continued consolidation within the commercial real estate development, operation and/or management industries may further concentrate our base of retail store locations to a small number of third party landlords and reduce our leverage with those parties, thereby materially adversely affecting the terms of future leases for our retail stores and restaurants or making entering into long-term commitments with such parties cost prohibitive. We anticipate expanding our operations internationally in fiscal 2012, including opening new Tommy Bahama retail stores in various jurisdictions in Asia, and these efforts may not be successful. We currently operate Ben Sherman retail stores in the United Kingdom and various jurisdictions in Europe. In addition, Ben Sherman products can be found throughout Europe, as well as globally. We anticipate opening Tommy Bahama retail stores in Asia, including Macau and Singapore in fiscal 2012 and a Tommy Bahama island in Tokyo in fiscal 2013. We continue to look for additional locations for retail stores in Asia, including locations in China and Hong Kong, as we proceed with our Tommy Bahama international expansion. Expanding our operations internationally requires significant capital investment and long-term commitments, and there are risks associated with doing business in these markets, including, understanding fashion trends and satisfying consumer tastes, including understanding sizing and fitting in these markets; market acceptance of our products; establishing appropriate logistics functions and operational infrastructure; managing compliance with the various legal requirements; staffing and managing foreign operations; fluctuations in exchange rates; the absence of intellectual property protection; obtaining governmental approvals that may be required to operate; potentially adverse tax implications; local regulations relating to employment and retail and restaurant operations; and maintaining proper levels of inventory. If we are unable to properly manage these risks or if our international expansion efforts do not prove successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Our Internet operations subject us to risks that could adversely affect our results and operations. Certain of our brands, including Tommy Bahama, Lilly Pulitzer and Ben Sherman, distribute products through their ecommerce websites and communicate with consumers through social media and other methods of digital marketing. These operations subject us to numerous risks that could adversely 33 Table of Contents affect our results and operations, including diversion of sales from our brick-and-mortar retail stores; failure to properly communicate our brand message or recreate the ambiance of our retail stores; reliance on third party service providers for software, processing and similar services; liability for website content; credit card fraud; and failure of computer systems, theft of personal consumer information and computer viruses. If we are unable to properly manage these risks, we may lose sales and/or our reputation and credibility may be damaged. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels. We schedule production from third party manufacturers based on our expectations for the demand for our products. However, we may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory, which may result in inventory markdowns or the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices. These events could significantly harm our operating results and impair the image of our brands. Conversely, we may not be in a position to order quality products from our manufacturers in a timely manner and/or we may experience inventory shortages as demand for our products increases, which might result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost sales, any of which could harm our business. We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property. We believe that our registered and common law trademarks and other intellectual property, as well as other contractual arrangements, including licenses and other proprietary intellectual property rights, have significant value and are important to our continued success and our competitive position due to their recognition by retailers and consumers. Approximately 88% of our net sales in fiscal 2011 were attributable to branded products for which we own the trademark. Therefore, our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to protect and preserve our intellectual property. We rely on laws in the United States and other countries to protect our proprietary rights. However, we may not be able to sufficiently prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without our authorization, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. The use of our intellectual property or similar intellectual property by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, causing us to lose sales or otherwise harm the reputation of our brands. Additionally, there can be no assurance that the actions that we have taken will be adequate to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. Although we have not been materially inhibited from selling products in connection with trademark disputes, as we extend our brands into new product categories and new product lines and expand the geographic scope of our marketing, including internationally, we could become subject to litigation based on allegations of the infringement of intellectual property rights of third parties. In the event a claim of infringement against us is successful, we may be required to pay damages, royalties or license fees to continue to use intellectual property rights that we had been using, or we may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable time. Litigation and other legal action of this type, regardless of whether it is successful, could result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our management and other resources. Our international operations, including foreign sourcing, result in an exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. As a result of our international operations, we are exposed to certain risks in conducting business outside of the United States. Substantially all of our orders for the production of apparel in foreign countries are denominated in U.S. dollars. If the value of the U.S. dollar decreases relative to certain foreign currencies in the future, then the prices that we negotiate for products could increase, and it is possible that we would not be able to pass this increase on to customers, which would negatively impact 34 Table of Contents our margins. However, if the value of the U.S. dollar increases between the time a price is set and payment for a product, the price we pay may be higher than that paid for comparable goods by competitors that pay for goods in local currencies, and these competitors may be able to sell their products at more competitive prices. Additionally, currency fluctuations could also disrupt the business of our independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and difficult to finance. We received U.S. dollars for approximately 90% of our product sales during fiscal 2011. The sales denominated in foreign currencies primarily relate to Ben Sherman sales in the United Kingdom and Europe. As we increase our operations in foreign markets, the volume of our sales denominated in foreign currencies would be expected to increase. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar compared to these other currencies in which we have sales could result in lower levels of sales and earnings in our consolidated statements of operations, although the sales in foreign currencies could be equal to or greater than amounts in prior periods. In addition, to the extent that a stronger U.S. dollar increases costs, and the products are sold in another currency, but the additional cost cannot be passed on to our customers, our gross margins will be negatively impacted. We hold licenses for the use of other parties' brand names, and we cannot guarantee our continued use of such brand names or the quality or salability of such brand names. We have entered into license and design agreements to use certain trademarks and trade names, such as Kenneth Cole, Dockers, Geoffrey Beene and Ike Behar, to market some of our products. Approximately 7% of our net sales during fiscal 2011 related to the products for which we license the use of the trademark for specific product categories. These license and design agreements will expire at various dates in the future. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to renew these licenses on acceptable terms upon expiration or that we will be able to acquire new licenses to use other popular trademarks. The termination or expiration of a license agreement will cause us to lose the sales and any associated profits generated pursuant to such license and in certain cases could result in an impairment charge for related intangible assets. In addition to certain compliance obligations, all of our significant licenses provide minimum thresholds for royalty payments and advertising expenditures for each license year, which we must pay regardless of the level of our sales of the licensed products. If these thresholds are not met, our licensors may be permitted contractually to terminate these agreements or seek payment of minimum royalties even if the minimum sales are not achieved. In addition, our licensors produce their own products and license their trademarks to other third parties, and we are unable to control the quality of these goods that others produce. If licensors or others do not maintain the quality of these trademarks or if the brand image deteriorates, our sales and any associated profits generated by such brands may decline. Our operations are influenced by weather patterns and natural or man-made disasters. Our sales volume and operations may be adversely affected by unseasonable weather conditions or natural or man-made disasters, which may cause consumers to alter their purchasing habits or result in a disruption to our operations. Because of the seasonality of our business, the concentration of a significant proportion of our retail stores and wholesale customers in certain geographic regions, the concentration of our sourcing operations in China and the concentration of our distribution operations, the occurrence of such events could disproportionately impact our business, financial condition and operating results. 35 Table of Contents Divestitures of certain businesses or discontinuations of certain product lines may require us to find alternative uses for our resources. From time to time, we may decide to divest or discontinue certain operations, as we did in fiscal 2010 with the sale of substantially all of the operations and assets of our former Oxford Apparel Group and as we did during the preceding years with the restructuring of our operations at certain of our operating groups. Divestitures of certain businesses that do not align with our strategy or the discontinuation of certain product lines which may not provide the returns that we expect or desire may result in underutilization of our resources in the event that the operations are not replaced with new lines of business either internally or through acquisition. There can be no guarantee that if we divest certain businesses or discontinue certain product lines that we will be able to replace the sales and profits related to these businesses or appropriately utilize our remaining resources, which may result in a decline in our operating results and/or result in an inappropriate capitalization of our organization. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 