Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks, many of which are outside of our control. The following factors, as well as factors described elsewhere in this report or in our other filings with the SEC that could materially affect our business, financial condition or operating results, should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impact our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results may be adversely affected. Our business is and will continue to be heavily influenced by economic trends and general economic conditions. Economic conditions may continue to adversely affect our sales, increase our cost of goods sold or require us to significantly modify our business practices. The apparel industry is cyclical and dependent upon the overall level of discretionary consumer spending, which changes as regional, domestic and international economic conditions change. Often, the apparel industry tends to experience longer periods of recession and generally experiences greater declines than the general economy. Overall economic conditions that affect discretionary consumer spending include, but are not limited to, employment levels, recessions, energy costs, interest rates, tax rates, personal debt levels, housing prices and stock market volatility. Uncertainty about the future may also impact the level of discretionary consumer spending or result in shifts in consumer spending to products other than apparel. Any deterioration in general economic or political conditions, acts of war or terrorism or other factors that create uncertainty or alter the discretionary consumer habits in our key markets, particularly the United States and the United Kingdom, could reduce our sales, increase our costs of goods sold or require us to significantly modify our current business practices and, consequently, harm our results of operations. These and other events that impact our operating results could also result in adverse consequences to our business, such as our inability to comply with financial covenants under our debt instruments or to meet minimum sales thresholds to certain of our licensors. The recent deterioration of the general economic environment, distress in the financial markets and general uncertainty about the economy have had, and are continuing to have, a significant negative impact on businesses and consumers around the world, including our own business. These recessionary conditions have impacted retail sales of apparel and other consumer products. Reduced sales by our wholesale customers may lead to lower retail inventory levels, reduced orders and/or order cancellations. Reduced sales by these customers, along with the possibility of their reduced access to, or inability to access, the credit markets, may result in our customers experiencing significant financial difficulties. Financial difficulties of customers could result in reduced sales to those customers or could result in store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations by those customers. Higher credit risk relating to receivables from customers experiencing financial difficulty may result. If these developments occur, our inability to shift sales to other customers or to collect on our accounts receivable could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. These or any other significant changes in the operations or liquidity for any of the parties with which we conduct our business, including suppliers, customers, trademark licensees and lenders, among others, now or in the future, or in the access to capital markets for us or any such parties, could result in lower demand for our products, lower sales, higher costs or other disruptions in our business. A significant portion of our revenues are direct-to-consumer through retail stores, restaurants and Internet websites. Reduced consumer confidence, along with a reduction in the availability of consumer credit and increasing unemployment, has led, and may continue to lead, to reduced purchases of our products at our retail stores, restaurants and/or Internet websites, which could have a negative impact on the demand for our products and reduce our operating leverage. 19 Table of Contents Additionally, during economic periods such as the recent conditions, certain long term commitments, such as leases and license agreements, may not be as beneficial in the short-term as was desired when we initially entered into the agreements. Lease agreements and license agreements often require certain minimum payments which do not fluctuate with sales. Our ability to reduce these costs may be minimal, even if we determine to no longer utilize the retail space or trademark over a portion of the term of the agreement, as the other party may not be willing to renegotiate the agreement. These long-term agreements may result in higher costs as a percentage of sales than we originally anticipated or we realized in prior years and thus negatively impact our operating results in future periods. We may be unable to successfully execute a key component of our business strategy, which is to grow our business through organic growth and/or acquisitions of lifestyle brands that fit within our business model, and any failure to successfully execute this aspect of our business strategy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. One key component of our business strategy is to grow our business through organic growth and/or acquisitions of lifestyle brands that fit within our business model. Organic growth may be achieved by, among other things, increasing our market share in existing markets, selling our products in new markets, increasing sales in our direct-to-consumer channels and increasing the product offerings within our various operating groups. Successful growth of our business through organic growth and/or acquisitions is subject to, among other things, our ability to find suitable acquisition candidates at reasonable prices in the future and the ability of our management to implement plans for expanding our existing businesses. We may not be successful in this regard, and our inability to grow our business may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The apparel industry is highly competitive, and we face significant competitive threats to our business from various third parties that could reduce our sales, increase our costs, reduce price points for our products, and/or decrease margins. The highly competitive apparel industry includes numerous domestic and foreign apparel designers, manufacturers, distributors, importers, licensors, and retailers, some of which may also be our customers and some of whom are significantly larger and have significantly greater financial resources than we do. The level and nature of our competition varies, and the number of our direct competitors and the intensity of competition may increase as we expand into other markets or product lines or as other companies expand into our markets or product lines. Some of our competitors may be able to adapt to changes in consumer demand more quickly, to devote greater resources to establishing brand recognition or to adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. Additionally, certain of our competitors offer apparel for sale at significant discounts, particularly in response to weak economic conditions, which results in more pressure to reduce prices or the risk that our products may not be as desirable as lower priced products. In addition, with respect to certain of our businesses, retailers that are our customers may pose a significant competitive threat by sourcing their products directly or by marketing their own private label brands. These private label lines may also receive prominent positioning on the retail floor. These competitive factors within the apparel industry may result in reduced sales, increased costs, lower prices for our products and/or decreased margins. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels. Maintaining appropriate inventory levels in light of uncertain economic conditions presents a challenge to our business. In light of the recent economic conditions, we believe we have planned inventory purchases for fiscal 2010 conservatively. However, we may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory, which may result in 20 Table of Contents inventory markdowns or the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices. These events could significantly harm our operating results and impair the image of our brands. Conversely, we may not be in a position to order quality products from our manufacturers in a timely manner and/or we may experience inventory shortages as demand for our products increases, which might result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost revenues, any of which could harm our business. Our success depends on the reputation and value of our owned and licensed brand names, including, in particular, Tommy Bahama and Ben Sherman, and actions by us, our wholesale customers, licensees or others who have interests in our brands could diminish the reputation or value of our brands and adversely affect our business operations. The success of our business depends on the reputation and value of our owned and licensed brand names. The value of our brands could be diminished by actions taken by us, for instance by becoming overly promotional, or by our wholesale customers or others, including marketing partners, who have interests in the brands. We cannot always control the marketing and promotion of our products by our wholesale customers or other third parties and actions by such parties that are inconsistent with our own marketing efforts or that otherwise adversely affect the appeal of our products could diminish the value or reputation of one or more of our brands and have an adverse effect on our sales and business operations. In addition, we license certain of our brands, such as Tommy Bahama and Ben Sherman to third party licensees. While we take significant steps to ensure the reputation of our brands is maintained through our license agreements, there can be no guarantee our brands will not be negatively impacted through our association with products outside of our core apparel products or due to the actions of a licensee. The improper or detrimental actions of a licensee could significantly impact the perception of our brands. The apparel industry is subject to rapidly evolving fashion trends, and we must continuously offer innovative and market appropriate products to maintain and grow our existing businesses. Failure to offer innovative and market appropriate products may adversely affect our sales and lead to excess inventory, markdowns and/or dilution of our brands. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the apparel industry are design, brand image, consumer preference, price, quality, marketing and customer service. Although certain of our products carry over from season to season, the apparel industry in general is subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and shifting consumer demands. Accordingly, we must anticipate, identify and capitalize upon emerging fashion trends. We believe that our success depends on our ability to continuously develop, source, market and deliver a wide variety of innovative, fashionable and desirable brands and products. These products must be offered at appropriate price points in their respective distribution channels. Sales growth from our brands will depend largely upon our ability to continue to maintain and enhance the distinctive brand identities. Due to the competitive nature of the apparel industry, there can be no assurance that the demand for our products will not decline or that we will be able to successfully evaluate and adapt our products to align with consumers' preferences, fashion trends and changes in consumer demographics. As is typical with new products, market acceptance of new price points and designs is subject to uncertainty. The introduction or repositioning of new lines and products often requires substantial costs in design, marketing and advertising, which may not be recovered if the products are not successful. Any failure on our part to develop appealing products and update core products could result in lower sales and/or harm the reputation and desirability of our brands. Additionally, since we generally make decisions regarding product designs several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be measured, such a failure could leave us with a substantial amount of unsold excess inventory, which we 21 Table of Contents may be forced to sell at lower price points. Any of these factors could result in a deterioration of the appeal of our brands and products, adversely affecting our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business depends on our senior management and other key personnel, and the unexpected loss of individuals integral to our business, our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future or our failure to successfully plan for and implement succession of our senior management and key personnel may have an adverse effect on our operations, business relationships and ability to execute our strategies. Our senior management has substantial experience and expertise in the apparel and related industries. Our success depends upon disciplined execution at all levels of our organization, including the members of our senior management. Competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense, and we compete to attract and retain these individuals with other companies which may have greater financial resources. In addition, we will need to plan for the succession of our senior management and successfully integrate new members of management within our organization. Consistent with our management succession plan, we have recently introduced new leaders for each of our Ben Sherman, Oxford Apparel and Lanier Clothes groups. The unexpected loss of any of our senior management, or the unsuccessful integration of new leadership, could negatively affect our operations, business relationships and ability to execute our strategies. We depend on a group of key customers for a significant portion of our wholesale sales. A significant adverse change in a customer relationship or in a customer's financial position could negatively impact our net sales and profitability. We generate a significant percentage of our sales from a few major customers. During fiscal 2009, sales to our five largest customers accounted for approximately 52% of our total wholesale sales and sales to our largest wholesale customer represented approximately 14% of our wholesale sales. Any further consolidation in the retail industry could result in a decrease in the number of stores that carry our products, restructuring of our customers' operations, more centralized purchasing decisions, direct sourcing and greater leverage by customers, potentially resulting in lower prices, realignment of customer affiliations or other factors which could negatively impact our net sales and profitability. We generally do not have long-term contracts with any of our customers. Instead, we rely on long-standing relationships with these customers and our position within the marketplace. As a result, purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis, and each relationship can generally be terminated by either party at any time. A decision by one or more major customers to terminate its relationship with us or to reduce its purchases from us, whether motivated by competitive considerations, quality or style issues, financial difficulties, economic conditions or otherwise, could adversely affect our net sales and profitability, as it would be difficult to immediately, if at all, replace this business with new customers or increase sales volumes with other existing customers. In addition, due to long product lead times, several of our product lines are designed and manufactured in anticipation of orders for sale. We make commitments for fabric and production in connection with these lines. These commitments can be made up to several months prior to the receipt of firm orders from customers, and if orders do not materialize or are canceled, we may incur expenses to terminate our fabric and production commitments or to dispose of excess inventories. We also extend credit to several of our key customers without requiring collateral, which results in a large amount of receivables from just a few customers. During the past several years, particularly in light of the recent economic crisis, companies in the apparel industry, including some of our customers, have had financial difficulties and have experienced tightened credit markets and declining sales and profitability on a comparable store basis. If one or more of our key customers experiences significant problems in the future, including as a result of general weakness in the apparel industry, our sales may 22 Table of Contents be reduced, and the risk associated with extending credit to these customers may increase. A significant adverse change in a customer's financial position could cause us to limit or discontinue business with that customer, require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer's receivables or limit our ability to collect amounts related to previous shipments to that customer. These or other events related to our significant customers could adversely affect our net sales and profitability. Our concentration of retail stores and wholesale customers for certain of our products exposes us to certain regional risks. Our retail locations are heavily concentrated in certain geographic areas in the United States, including Florida and California for our Tommy Bahama retail stores and the United Kingdom for our Ben Sherman retail stores. As of January 30, 2010, 39 out of our 84 Tommy Bahama retail stores were located in these two U.S. states and almost half of our 13 Ben Sherman full price retail stores were located in the United Kingdom. Additionally, a significant portion of our wholesale sales for Tommy Bahama and Ben Sherman products are concentrated in the same geographic areas as our own retail store locations for these brands. Due to this concentration, we have heightened exposure to factors that impact these regions, including general economic conditions, weather patterns, natural disasters, changing demographics and other factors. Our foreign sourcing operations as well as the sale of products in foreign markets result in an exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. As a result of our international operations, we are exposed to certain risks in conducting business outside of the United States. Substantially all of our orders for the production of apparel in foreign countries are denominated in U.S. dollars. Purchase prices for our products may be impacted by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the local currencies of the contract manufacturers, either of which may have the effect of increasing our cost of goods sold in the future. If the value of the U.S. dollar decreases relative to certain foreign currencies in the future, then the prices that we negotiate for products could increase, and it is possible that we would not be able to pass this increase on to customers, which would negatively impact our margins. If the value of the U.S. dollar increases between the time a price is set and payment for a product, the price we pay may be higher than that paid for comparable goods by competitors that pay for goods in local currencies, and these competitors may be able to sell their products at more competitive prices. Additionally, currency fluctuations could also disrupt the business of our independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and difficult to finance. We received U.S. dollars for approximately 90% of our product sales during fiscal 2009. The sales denominated in foreign currencies primarily relate to Ben Sherman sales in the United Kingdom and Europe. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar compared to these other currencies in which we have sales could result in lower levels of sales and earnings in our consolidated statements of operations, although the sales in foreign currencies could be equal to or greater than amounts in prior periods. In addition, to the extent that the stronger U.S. dollar increases costs, and the products are sold in another currency, but the additional cost cannot be passed on to our customers, our gross margins will be negatively impacted. We generally do not engage in hedging activities with respect to our exposure to foreign currency risk except that, on occasion, we do purchase foreign currency forward exchange contracts for our goods purchased on U.S. dollar terms that are expected to be sold in the United Kingdom and Europe. Divestitures of certain businesses or discontinuations of certain product lines may require us to find alternative uses for our resources. We may determine that it is appropriate to divest or discontinue certain operations. Divestitures of certain businesses that do not align with our strategy or the discontinuation of certain product lines 23 Table of Contents which may not provide the returns that we expect or desire may result in underutilization of our resources in the event that the operations are not replaced with new lines of business either internally or through acquisition. There can be no guarantee that if we divest certain businesses or discontinue certain product lines that we will be able to replace the sales and profits related to these businesses or appropriately utilize our remaining resources, which may result in a decline in our operating results and/or result in an inappropriate capitalization of our organization. We make use of debt to finance our operations, which exposes us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial position and operating results. Our levels of debt vary as a result of the seasonality of our business, investments in acquisitions and working capital and divestitures. As of January 30 2010, we had approximately $150 million of outstanding 113/8% Senior Secured Notes and no borrowings outstanding under our U.S. Revolving Credit Agreement, which subject to the applicable conditions contained therein, has a loan commitment of up to $175 million, or our U.K. Revolving Credit Agreement, which has a loan commitment of up to £10 million. Our debt levels may increase in the future under our existing facilities or potentially under new facilities, or the terms or forms of our financing arrangements in the future may change, which may increase our exposure to the items discussed below. In August 2008, we entered into our U.S. Revolving Credit Agreement, which amended and restated the Prior Credit Agreement, which was scheduled to mature in July 2009. Our U.S. Revolving Credit Agreement matures in August 2013. Our U.S. Revolving Credit Agreement provides for an asset-based facility, with borrowing availability determined primarily by the level of our eligible accounts receivable and inventory balances. We currently anticipate that cash flows from operations and the projected borrowing availability under our U.S. Revolving Credit Agreement will be sufficient to fund our liquidity requirements. However, if we do not have a sufficient borrowing base at any given time, borrowing availability under our U.S. Revolving Credit Agreement may not be sufficient to support our liquidity needs. Additionally, if any of the financial institutions that are parties to our U.S. Revolving Credit Agreement were to declare bankruptcy or become insolvent, they may be unable to perform under their agreements with us. This could leave us with reduced borrowing capacity. In addition, in June 2009, we issued $150 million aggregate principal amount of 113/8% Senior Secured Notes with a scheduled maturity of July 2015. The net proceeds from the sale of the 113/8% Senior Secured Notes, together with borrowings under our U.S. Revolving Credit Agreement, were used to satisfy and discharge then outstanding 87/8% Senior Unsecured Notes, which were scheduled to mature in June 2011. The 113/8% Senior Secured Notes have a higher interest rate than the 87/8% Senior Unsecured Notes had, which will increase our interest expense. The increased interest expense may make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt obligations, require us to dedicate a more significant portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes, such as funding our working capital and capital expenditures, and/or limit our ability to borrow additional funds in the future. Our indebtedness includes, and any future indebtedness may include, certain obligations and limitations, including the periodic payment of principal and interest, maintenance of certain covenants and certain other limitations related to additional debt, dividend payments, investments and dispositions of assets. Our ability to satisfy these obligations will be dependent upon our business, financial condition and operating results. These obligations and limitations may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and limit our flexibility in carrying out our business plan and planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industry in which we operate. 24 Table of Contents We have interest rate risk on a portion of our indebtedness, as certain of our indebtedness is based on variable interest rates. We generally do not engage in hedging activities with respect to our interest rate risk. An increase in interest rates may require us to pay a greater amount of our funds from operations towards interest, even if the amount of borrowings outstanding remains the same. As a result, we may have to revise or delay our business plans, reduce or delay capital expenditures or otherwise adjust our plans for operations. We are dependent upon the availability of raw materials and the ability of our third-party producers, substantially all of whom are located in foreign countries, to meet our requirements; any failures by these producers to meet our requirements, or the unavailability of suitable producers or raw materials at reasonable prices may negatively impact our ability to deliver quality products to our customers on a timely basis or result in higher costs or reduced net sales. We source substantially all of our products from non-exclusive, third-party producers located in foreign countries. Although we place a high value on long-term relationships with our suppliers, generally we do not have long-term contracts but, instead, conduct business on an order-by-order basis. Therefore, we compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers. We regularly depend upon the ability of third-party producers to secure a sufficient supply of raw materials, adequately finance the production of goods ordered and maintain sufficient manufacturing and shipping capacity. Although we monitor production in third-party manufacturing locations, we cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with our manufacturers, such as the reduction of availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications, insufficient quality control, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. Such difficulties may negatively impact our ability to deliver quality products to our customers on a timely basis, which may, in turn, have a negative impact on our customer relationships and result in lower net sales. Most of the products we purchase from third-party producers are package purchases, and we and our third-party suppliers rely on the availability of raw materials at reasonable prices. The principal fabrics used in our business are cotton, linens, wools, silk, other natural fibers, synthetics and blends of these materials. The prices paid for these fabrics depend on the market price for raw materials used to produce them. The price and availability of certain raw materials have fluctuated in the past, and may fluctuate in the future, depending on a variety of factors, including crop yields, weather, supply conditions, government regulation, war, terrorism, labor unrest, global health concerns, economic climate, the cost of petroleum and other unpredictable factors. Additionally, costs incurred by our third-party providers or our transportation costs may increase due to these same factors. We historically have not entered into any futures contracts to hedge commodity prices. Any significant increase in the price of raw materials or decrease in the availability of raw materials could cause delays in product deliveries to our customers, which could have an adverse impact on our customer relationships and/or increase our costs, some or all of which we may be unable to pass on to our customers. We also require third-party producers to meet certain standards in terms of working conditions, environmental protection and other matters before placing business with them. As a result of costs relating to compliance with these standards, we may pay higher prices than some of our competitors for products. In addition, the labor and business practices of independent apparel manufacturers have received increased attention from the media, non-governmental organizations, consumers and governmental agencies in recent years. Failure by us or our independent manufacturers to adhere to labor or other laws or business practices accepted as ethical, and the potential litigation, negative publicity and political pressure relating to any of these events, could disrupt our operations or harm our reputation. 25 Table of Contents Since we source substantially all of our products from third-party producers located in foreign countries, our business is subject to legal, regulatory, political and economic risks, including risks relating to the importation of our products, and our products may become less competitive as a result of adverse changes affecting our international operations. As we source substantially all of our products from foreign countries, including approximately 60% of our product purchases from China during fiscal 2009, we are exposed to risks associated with changes in the laws and regulations governing the importing and exporting of apparel products into and from the countries in which we operate. Some of the risks associated with importing our products from foreign countries include quotas imposed by countries in which our products are manufactured or countries into which our products are imported, which limit the amount and type of goods that may be imported annually from or into these countries; changes in social, political, labor and economic conditions or terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers are located; the imposition of additional or new duties, tariffs, taxes or other charges and shifts in sourcing patterns as a result of such charges; significant fluctuations in the cost of raw materials; significant delays in the delivery of our products, due to security considerations; rapid fluctuations in sourcing costs, including costs for raw materials and labor; the imposition of antidumping or countervailing duties; fluctuations in the value of the dollar against foreign currencies; and restrictions on the transfer of funds to or from foreign countries. We currently benefit from duty-free treatment under international trade agreements and regulations such as the North American Free Trade Agreement. In addition, China's safeguard quota on certain classes of apparel products expired on December 31, 2008. Though all quotas on Chinese-made textile and apparel products are currently eliminated, the imposition of a new quota arrangement between the United States and China or the elimination of duty-free treatment or our inability to qualify for such benefits would adversely impact our business by increasing our cost of goods sold. Our products are subject to increasingly stringent and complex product performance and safety standards, laws and other regulations, such as the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008. Complying with new regulations could result in greater expense, and failure to comply with such regulations could result in a delay, non-delivery or mandated destruction of inventory shipments during key seasons or other financial penalties. While we intend to abide by applicable laws or regulations, significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws could harm our reputation, our business relationships or our ability to execute our strategies. Our, or any of our suppliers', failure to comply with customs or similar laws or any other applicable regulations could restrict our ability to import products or lead to fines, penalties or adverse publicity, and future regulatory actions or trade agreements may provide our competitors with a material advantage over us or materially increase our costs. 26 Table of Contents Our operations are reliant on information technology, and any interruption or other failure in our information technology systems may impair our ability to compete effectively in the apparel industry, including our ability to provide services to our customers and meet the needs of management. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on information technology. Information systems are used in all stages of our operations from design to distribution and as a method of communication with our customers and suppliers. Additionally, certain of our operating groups utilize e-commerce websites to sell goods directly to consumers. Our management also relies on information systems to provide relevant and accurate information in order to allocate resources and forecast and report our operating results. Service interruptions may occur as a result of a number of factors, including computer viruses, hacking or other unlawful activities by third parties, disasters, or failures to properly install, upgrade, integrate, protect, repair or maintain our systems and e-commerce websites. During the third quarter of fiscal 2009, we converted certain of our financial systems in our United States operations to a new integrated financial system. As a result of these conversions, we modified certain internal controls over financial reporting. We anticipate converting other of our financial systems and certain other geographic regions to the new integrated financial system in future periods. Difficulties migrating existing financial systems to the new software could cause difficulties in operating our business and communicating with our customers or our ability to report our financial results, which could cause our sales and profits to decrease and could also require significant expenditures to remediate any such difficulties. Additionally, future assessments of the appropriateness and relevance of our financial and operational systems could result in a change to or additional replacements of our systems in the future. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in developing or acquiring competitive systems which are responsive to our needs and the needs of our customers. We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property or may otherwise have our brand names harmed. We believe that our registered and common law trademarks and other intellectual property, as well as other contractual arrangements, including licenses and other proprietary intellectual property rights, have significant value and are important to our continued success and our competitive position due to their recognition by retailers and consumers. Approximately 68% of our net sales in fiscal 2009 was attributable to branded products for which we own the trademark. Therefore, our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to protect and preserve our intellectual property. We rely on laws in the United States and other countries to protect our proprietary rights. However, we may not be able to sufficiently prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without our authorization, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. The use of our intellectual property or similar intellectual property by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, causing us to lose sales or otherwise harm the reputation of our brands. Additionally, there can be no assurance that the actions that we have taken will be adequate to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. Although we have not been materially inhibited from selling products in connection with trademark disputes, as we extend our brands into new product categories and new product lines and expand the geographic scope of our marketing, we could become subject to litigation based on allegations of the infringement of intellectual property rights of third parties. In the event a claim of infringement against us is successful, we may be required to pay damages, royalties or license fees to continue to use intellectual property rights that we had been using, or we may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable time. Litigation and other legal action of this type, 27 Table of Contents regardless of whether it is successful, could result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our management and other resources. Our sales and operating results are influenced by weather patterns and natural disasters. Like other companies in the apparel industry, our sales volume may be adversely affected by unseasonable weather conditions or natural disasters, which may cause consumers to alter their purchasing habits or result in a disruption to our operations. Because of the seasonality of our business and the concentration of a significant proportion of our customers in certain geographic regions, the occurrence of such events could disproportionately impact our business, financial condition and operating results. We are dependent on a limited number of distribution centers, making our operations particularly susceptible to disruption. Our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies depends on the proper operation of our primary distribution facilities, some of which are owned and others of which are operated by third parties. Finished garments from our contractors are inspected and stored at these distribution facilities. If any of these distribution facilities were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, or if the goods in the distribution center were otherwise unavailable for shipment, we could experience a reduction in sales, a substantial loss of inventory or higher costs and longer lead times associated with the distribution of our products during the time it takes to reopen or replace the facility. This could negatively affect our operating results and our customer relationships. We may not be successful in identifying locations and negotiating appropriate lease terms for retail stores and restaurants. An integral part of our strategy has been to develop and operate retail stores and restaurants for certain of our brands. Net sales from retail stores and restaurants were approximately 29% of our consolidated net sales during fiscal 2009. Successful operation of our retail stores and restaurants depends, in part, on the overall ability of the retail location to attract a consumer base sufficient to make store sales volume profitable. If we are unable to identify new locations with consumer traffic sufficient to support a profitable sales level, retail growth may consequently be limited. Further, if existing retail stores and restaurants do not maintain a sufficient customer base that provides a reasonable sales volume, it could have a negative impact on our sales, gross margin, and results of operations. In addition, there has been some recent consolidation among commercial real estate developers, mall operators and/or shopping center managers. Significant consolidation within the commercial real estate development, operation and/or management industries impacting locations where we might operate retail stores and/or restaurants or that we might otherwise consider desirable could reduce our leverage with such parties, thereby materially adversely affecting the terms of future leases for our retail stores and restaurants or making entering into long-term commitments with such parties cost prohibitive. Our business, in particular our retail and restaurant operations, is subject to state and local laws and regulations for health, safety, labor and similar operational issues. The costs of compliance with, or the violation of, such laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our costs or operations, and we may be adversely impacted by negative publicity surrounding any of these issues. We operated retail stores and restaurants in numerous states as of January 30, 2010. Our retail and restaurant operations are subject to comprehensive state and local laws and regulations on a wide range of employment, safety and other matters. The complexity of these laws and regulations to which we are subject, which may vary widely by jurisdiction, makes it difficult for us to ensure that we are currently, 28 Table of Contents or will be in the future, compliant with all laws and regulations. We may be required to make significant expenditures or modify our business practices to comply with existing or future laws or regulations, and unfavorable resolution to litigation or a violation of applicable laws and regulations may increase our costs and materially limit our ability to operate our business. In addition, the restaurant industry is highly competitive and requires compliance with a variety of federal, state and local regulations. In particular, all of our Tommy Bahama restaurants serve alcohol and, therefore, maintain liquor licenses. Our ability to maintain our liquor licenses depends on our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The loss of a liquor license would adversely affect the profitability of a restaurant. Additionally, as a participant in the restaurant industry, we face risks related to food quality, food-borne illness, injury, health inspection scores and labor relations. Regardless of whether allegations related to these matters are valid or whether we become liable, we may be materially affected by negative publicity associated with these issues. The negative impact of adverse publicity relating to one restaurant may extend beyond the restaurant involved to affect some or all of the other restaurants, as well as the image of the Tommy Bahama brand as a whole. We hold licenses for the use of other parties' brand names, and we cannot guarantee our continued use of such brand names or the quality or salability of such brand names. We have entered into license and design agreements to use certain trademarks and trade names, such as Kenneth Cole, Dockers, United States Polo Association and Geoffrey Beene, to market our products. Approximately 8% of our net sales during fiscal 2009 related to the products for which we license the use of the trademark for specific product categories. These license and design agreements will expire at various dates in the future. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to renew these licenses on acceptable terms upon expiration or that we will be able to acquire new licenses to use other popular trademarks. The termination or expiration of a license agreement will cause us to lose the sales and any associated profits generated pursuant to such license and in certain cases could result in an impairment charge for related intangible assets. In addition to certain compliance obligations, all of our significant licenses provide minimum thresholds for royalty payments and advertising expenditures for each license year, which we must pay regardless of the level of our sales of the licensed products. If these thresholds are not met, our licensors may be permitted contractually to terminate these agreements or seek payment of minimum royalties even if the minimum sales are not achieved. In addition, our licensors produce their own products and license their trademarks to other third parties, and we are unable to control the quality of these goods that others produce. If licensors or others do not maintain the quality of these trademarks or if the brand image deteriorates, our sales and any associated profits generated by such brands may decline. The acquisition of new businesses has certain inherent risks, including, for example, strains on our management team and unexpected acquisition costs. One component of our business strategy is the acquisition of new businesses or product lines as and when appropriate investment opportunities are available. Evaluating and completing acquisitions in the future may strain our administrative, operational and financial resources and distract our management from our ongoing businesses. In addition, integrating acquired businesses is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. The integration process for newly acquired businesses could create for us a number of challenges and adverse consequences associated with the integration of product lines, employees, sales teams and outsourced manufacturers; employee turnover, including key management and creative personnel of the acquired and existing businesses; disruption in product cycles for newly acquired product lines; maintenance of acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies; and the impairment of 29 Table of Contents relationships with customers of the acquired and existing businesses. Further, we may not be able to manage the combined operations and assets effectively or realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. As a result of acquisitions that have occurred or may occur in the future, we may become responsible for unexpected liabilities that we failed to discover in the course of performing due diligence in connection with the acquired businesses. We cannot be assured that any indemnification to which we may be entitled from the sellers will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with the business acquired. We operate in various countries with differing laws and regulations, which may impair our ability to maintain compliance with regulations and laws. Although we attempt to abide by the laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in which we operate, the complexity of the laws and regulations to which we are subject, including customs regulations, labor laws, competition laws, consumer protection laws and domestic and international tax legislation, makes it difficult for us to ensure that we are currently, or will be in the future, compliant with all laws and regulations. We may be required to make significant expenditures or modify our business practices to comply with existing or future laws or regulations, and unfavorable resolution to litigation or a violation of applicable laws and regulations may increase our costs and materially limit our ability to operate our business. Compliance with privacy and information laws and requirements could be costly, and a breach of information security or privacy could adversely affect our business. The regulatory environment governing our use of individually identifiable data of customers, employees and others is complex and a matter of growing public concern. Privacy and information security laws and requirements change frequently, and compliance with them may require us to incur costs to make necessary systems changes and implement new administrative processes. If a data security breach occurs, our reputation could be damaged and we could experience lost sales, fines or lawsuits. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 