Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below highlight some of the factors that could materially affect our operations. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results may be adversely affected. These are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. We operate in a competitive and rapidly changing business environment, and additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our business. We operate in a highly competitive industry and our success depends on the reputation and value of our brand names and our ability to offer innovative and market appropriate products that respond to rapidly changing fashion trends; any failure to maintain the reputation or value of our brands, to offer innovative, fashionable and desirable brands and products and/or to appropriately respond to competitive factors within our industry could adversely affect our business operations and financial condition. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the apparel industry are the reputation, value and image of brand names; design; consumer preference; price; quality; marketing; and customer service. We believe that our ability to compete successfully is directly related to our proficiency in foreseeing changes and trends in fashion and consumer preference, and presenting appealing products for consumers. The value of our brands could be diminished by actions taken by us or by our wholesale customers or others, including marketing partners, who have interests in the brands, including by failing to respond to emerging fashion trends or by becoming overly promotional. We cannot always control the marketing and promotion of our products by our wholesale customers or other third parties and actions by such parties that are inconsistent with our own marketing efforts or that otherwise adversely affect the appeal of our products could diminish the value or reputation of one or more of our brands and have an adverse effect on our sales and business operations. 29 Table of Contents During fiscal 2012, Tommy Bahama's net sales represented 62% of our consolidated net sales, while Lilly Pulitzer's and Ben Sherman's net sales represented 14% and 10%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. The limited diversification in our portfolio may heighten the risks we face if one of our brands fails to meet our expectations and/or is adversely impacted by any actions we or third parties take with respect to that brand or by competitive conditions in the apparel industry. For example, Ben Sherman's missteps in merchandise mix in the second half of fiscal 2012, coupled with the sluggish economic conditions in the United Kingdom and Europe during fiscal 2012, resulted in a fiscal 2012 operating loss of $10.9 million for Ben Sherman, which not only affected Ben Sherman's operating results but materially impacted our consolidated operating results and the amount of time required by our management to focus on the Ben Sherman operations. Although certain of our products carry over from season to season, the apparel industry is subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and shifting consumer demands, particularly for our lifestyle branded Tommy Bahama, Lilly Pulitzer and Ben Sherman products. Due to the competitive nature of the apparel industry, there can be no assurance that the demand for our products will not decline or that we will be able to successfully evaluate and adapt our products to align with consumers' preferences, fashion trends and changes in consumer demographics. The introduction or repositioning of new lines and products and the entry of our products into new geographic territories often requires substantial costs in design, marketing and advertising, which may not be recovered if the products are not successful. Any failure on our part to develop and market appealing products could result in lower sales and operating losses and/or harm the reputation and desirability of our brands. Additionally, since we generally make decisions regarding product designs several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be measured, such a failure could result in a substantial amount of unsold inventory or other conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, the merchandise mix missteps in Ben Sherman during the second half of fiscal 2012 resulted in higher promotions in our direct to consumer operations, more off-price sales and more significant inventory markdowns during the second half of fiscal 2012, as we sought to liquidate excess Ben Sherman inventory. The highly competitive apparel industry, characterized by low entry barriers, includes numerous domestic and foreign apparel designers, manufacturers, distributors, importers, licensors and retailers, some of whom may also be our customers and some of whom are significantly larger, more diversified and have significantly greater financial resources than we do. Certain of our competitors offer apparel for sale at significant discounts, particularly in response to weak economic conditions, which results in more pressure to reduce prices or the risk that our products may not be as desirable as lower priced products. Competitive factors within the apparel industry may result in reduced sales, increased costs, lower prices for our products and/or decreased margins. We also license certain of our brands, including Tommy Bahama, Lilly Pulitzer and Ben Sherman, to third party licensees. While we enter into comprehensive license agreements with these third parties covering product design, product quality, sourcing, manufacturing and marketing requirements and approvals, there can be no guarantee our brands will not be negatively impacted through our association with products outside of our core apparel products or due to the actions of a licensee. The improper or detrimental actions of a licensee could significantly impact the perception of our brands. In addition, the reputation of our brands could be harmed if our third party manufacturers and vendors, substantially all of which are located outside the United States, fail to meet our product safety, product quality and social compliance standards. We cannot assure that our manufacturers and vendors will at all times conduct their operations in accordance with ethical practices or that the products we purchase will always meet our safety and quality control standards. Any violation of our applicable codes of conduct or local laws relating to labor conditions by our manufacturers or vendors or other 30 Table of Contents actions or failures by us or such parties may result in negative public perception of our brands or products, as well as disrupt our supply chain, adversely affecting our business operations. The apparel industry is heavily influenced by general economic conditions, and a deterioration or worsening of consumer confidence or consumer purchases of discretionary products may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Consumers may generally consider our products discretionary items. The apparel industry is cyclical and dependent upon the overall level of discretionary consumer spending, which changes as regional, domestic and international economic conditions change. Demand for our products is significantly impacted by trends in consumer confidence and discretionary consumer spending, which may be influenced by employment levels, recessions, fuel and energy costs, availability of personal credit, interest rates, tax rates and changes in tax laws, the European debt crisis, declining purchasing power due to foreign currency fluctuations, personal debt levels, housing prices, stock market volatility, general political conditions and other factors. The factors impacting consumer confidence and discretionary consumer spending are outside of our control and difficult to predict, and, often, the apparel industry experiences longer periods of recession and greater declines than the general economy. Starting in 2008, the global economic environment began to deteriorate. This has been characterized by a dramatic decline in consumer discretionary spending disproportionately affecting our industry. While we have seen intermittent signs of stabilization in the United States since fiscal 2010, there is continued volatility in the European markets. There are no assurances that the United States, European or global economy will recover in the near future or that recessionary conditions will not return to or worsen in these markets. In addition, the European sovereign debt crisis or unstable political conditions, or potential or actual international conflicts, in the Middle East or other parts of the world, could result in disruptions to sourcing of our products from foreign markets. Any deterioration or worsening of consumer confidence or discretionary consumer spending, or disruptions to our supply chain from macroeconomic conditions, could reduce our sales, increase our costs of goods sold or require us to significantly modify our current business practices. Additionally, significant changes in the operations or liquidity of any of the parties with which we conduct our business, including suppliers, customers, trademark licensees and lenders, among others, now or in the future, or in the access to capital markets for any such parties, could result in lower demand for our products, lower sales, higher costs or other disruptions in our business. We rely to a large extent on third party producers in foreign countries to meet our production demands and failures by these producers to meet our requirements, or the unavailability of suitable producers at reasonable prices, may negatively impact our ability to deliver quality products to our customers on a timely basis or result in higher costs or reduced net sales. We source substantially all of our products from non-exclusive, third party producers located in foreign countries, including sourcing approximately 65% of our product purchases from China during fiscal 2012. Although we place a high value on long-term relationships with our suppliers, generally we do not have long-term contracts but, instead, conduct business on an order-by-order basis. Therefore, we compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers. We regularly depend upon the ability of third party producers to secure a sufficient supply of raw materials, adequately finance the production of goods ordered and maintain sufficient manufacturing and shipping capacity. Although we monitor production in third party manufacturing locations, we cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with our manufacturers, such as the reduction of availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications, insufficient quality control, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. Such difficulties may negatively impact our ability to deliver quality products to our customers on a timely basis, which may, in turn, have a negative impact on our customer relationships and result in lower net sales. 31 Table of Contents Changes in international trade regulation and risks relating to the importation of our products may cause our products to become less competitive, disrupt our supply chain and/or adversely affect our operations. We source substantially all of our products from foreign countries, most significantly China. As a result, we are exposed to risks associated with changes in the laws and regulations governing the importing and exporting of apparel products into and from the countries in which we operate. Some of the risks associated with importing our products from foreign countries include changes in social, political, labor and economic conditions or terrorist acts that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers are located; the imposition of additional or new duties, tariffs, taxes, quota restrictions or other changes and shifts in sourcing patterns as a result of such changes; significant delays in the delivery of our products, due to security or other considerations; fluctuations in sourcing costs; the imposition of antidumping or countervailing duties; fluctuations in the value of the dollar against foreign currencies; changes in customs procedures for importing apparel products; and restrictions on the transfer of funds to or from foreign countries. We may not be able to offset any disruption to our supply chain as a result of any of these factors by shifting production to suitable manufacturers in other jurisdictions in a timely manner or at acceptable prices, and any of these factors could harm our business, result in a loss of sales and/or increase the costs of our goods. In addition, our, or any of our suppliers', failure to comply with customs or similar laws or any other applicable regulations could restrict our ability to import products or lead to fines, penalties or adverse publicity, and future regulatory actions or trade agreements may provide our competitors with a material advantage over us or materially increase our costs. Loss of one or more of our key wholesale customers, or a significant adverse change in a customer's financial performance or financial position could negatively impact our net sales and profitability. We generate a significant percentage of our wholesale sales from a few major customers. During fiscal 2012, sales to our five largest customers accounted for 42% of our consolidated wholesale sales and sales to our largest wholesale customer represented 16% of our consolidated wholesale sales. Over the last several years, there has been a trend towards greater consolidation in the retail industry, as well as more centralized purchasing decisions within consolidated customer groups, and direct sourcing of products by large retailers. A decrease in the number of stores that carry our products, restructuring of our customers' operations, more centralized purchasing decisions, direct sourcing and greater leverage by customers, as a result of further consolidation in the retail industry or otherwise, could result in lower prices, realignment of customer affiliations or other factors which could negatively impact our net sales and profitability. We generally do not have long-term contracts with any of our customers. Instead, we rely on long-standing relationships with these customers and our position within the marketplace. As a result, purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis, and each relationship can generally be terminated by either party at any time. A decision by one or more of our major customers to terminate its relationship with us or to reduce its purchases from us, whether motivated by competitive considerations, quality or style issues, financial difficulties, economic conditions or otherwise, could adversely affect our net sales and profitability, as it would be difficult to immediately, if at all, replace this business with new customers or increase sales volumes with other existing customers. In addition, due to long product lead times, our product lines are typically designed and manufactured in anticipation of orders for sale. We make commitments for production in connection with these lines. These commitments can be made up to several months prior to the receipt of firm orders from customers, and if orders do not materialize or are canceled, we may incur expenses to terminate our production commitments or to dispose of excess inventories. We also extend credit to several of our key customers without requiring collateral, which results in a large amount of receivables from just a few customers. At February 2, 2013, our five largest 32 Table of Contents outstanding customer balances represented 37% of our consolidated receivables balance. Companies in the apparel industry, including some of our customers, may experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcies, restructurings and reorganizations, tightened credit markets and/or declining sales and profitability on a comparable store basis. A significant adverse change in a customer's financial position could cause us to limit or discontinue business with that customer, require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer's receivables or limit our ability to collect amounts related to previous shipments to that customer. We rely on the proper operation of our primary distribution facilities in order to support our direct to consumer operations, meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve operating efficiencies, and any disruption or failure in these facilities may materially adversely affect our business or operations. Our ability to support our direct to consumer operations, meet customer expectations, manage inventory and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies depends on the proper operation of our primary brand-focused distribution facilities, each of which manages the receipt, storage, sorting, packing and distribution of finished goods for one of our operating groups. The primary distribution facilities that we operate are: a distribution center in Auburn, Washington for our Tommy Bahama products; a distribution center in King of Prussia, Pennsylvania for our Lilly Pulitzer products; a distribution center in Toccoa, Georgia for our Lanier Clothes products; and a distribution center in Lyons, Georgia for our Ben Sherman products sold in the United States. In addition, in the United Kingdom, we utilize a third party distribution center that manages substantially all of the distribution activities for our Ben Sherman products sold in the United Kingdom and Europe. During fiscal 2013, we expect to transition the Ben Sherman distribution center activities in the United Kingdom to another third party facility. If any of our primary distribution facilities were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, including as a result of natural or man-made disasters, cybersecurity attacks, computer viruses or otherwise, if our distribution facilities fail to upgrade their technological systems to ensure efficient operations, if the goods in a distribution center were otherwise unavailable for shipment, as a result of a technology failure or otherwise, or if we experience any difficulty in transitioning our distribution activities for Ben Sherman in the United Kingdom, we could experience a reduction in sales, a substantial loss of inventory or higher costs, insufficient inventory at our retail stores to meet consumer expectations and longer lead times associated with the distribution of our products. In addition, for the distribution facilities that we operate, there are substantial fixed costs associated with these large, highly automated distribution centers. We could experience reduced operating and cost efficiencies during periods of economic weakness. Any disruption to our distribution facilities or in their efficient operation could negatively affect our operating results and our customer relationships. Our operations are reliant on information technology and any interruption or other failure may impair our ability to provide products to our customers and meet the needs of management. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on information technology. Information systems are used in all stages of our operations from design to distribution and as a method of communication with our customers and suppliers. Additionally, certain of our operating groups utilize e-commerce websites to sell goods directly to consumers. Our management also relies on information systems to provide relevant and accurate information in order to allocate resources and forecast and report our operating results. Service interruptions may occur as a result of a number of factors, including power outages, computer viruses, hacking or other unlawful activities by third parties, disasters, or failures to properly install, upgrade, integrate, protect, repair or maintain our systems and e-commerce websites. 33 Table of Contents We regularly evaluate upgrades or enhancements to our information systems to more efficiently and competitively operate our business, including an ongoing transition towards more integrated systems for our businesses. We may experience difficulties during the implementation of this financial system and/or not be equipped to address system problems. Any material disruption in our information technology systems, or any failure to timely, efficiently and effectively integrate new systems, could have an adverse affect on our business or results of operations. Our business depends on our senior management and other key personnel, and the unsuccessful transition of key management responsibilities, the unexpected loss of individuals integral to our business, our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future or our failure to successfully plan for and implement succession of our senior management and key personnel may have an adverse effect on our operations, business relationships and ability to execute our strategies. Over the last two years, we have announced various changes to our senior management, including the retirement of our long-time Chief Executive Officer Mr. J. Hicks Lanier from that position on December 31, 2012. Our senior management has substantial experience and expertise in the apparel and related industries, with our newly elected Chief Executive Officer Mr. Thomas C. Chubb III having worked with our company for almost 25 years, including in various executive management capacities. Changes in key management positions, including within our operating groups, have inherent risks, and there are no assurances that any of our recent changes in management will not disrupt our business or operations, distract employees and/or affect our strategic relationships. Our success also depends upon disciplined execution at all levels of our organization, including our senior management. Competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense, and we compete to attract and retain these individuals with other companies that may have greater financial resources than us. While we believe that we have depth within our management team, if we lose any key executives, especially if one or more of these individuals join a competitor, our business and financial performance could be harmed. In addition, we will need to plan for the succession of our senior management and successfully integrate new members of management within our organization. The unexpected loss of any of our senior management, or the unsuccessful integration of new leadership, could negatively affect our operations, business relationships and ability to execute our strategies. Breaches of information security or privacy could damage our reputation or credibility and cause us financial harm. As an ongoing part of our business operations, including marketing through various social media tools, we regularly collect and utilize sensitive and confidential personal information. The regulatory environment governing our use of individually identifiable data of customers, employees and others is complex, and the security of personal information is a matter of public concern. Despite our implementation of security measures, if an actual or perceived data security breach occurs, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks, computer viruses, vandalism, human error or otherwise, our reputation and credibility could be damaged and we could experience lost sales. In addition, privacy and information security laws and requirements change frequently, and compliance with them or similar security standards, such as those created by the payment card industry, may require us to modify our operations and/or incur costs to make necessary systems changes and implement new administrative processes. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations, or similar security standards, could lead to fines, penalties or adverse publicity. 34 Table of Contents We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property. We believe that our trademarks and other intellectual property, as well as certain contractual arrangements, including licenses, and other proprietary intellectual property rights, have significant value and are important to our continued success and our competitive position due to their recognition by retailers and consumers. In fiscal 2012, 88% of our consolidated net sales were attributable to branded products for which we own the trademark. Therefore, our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to protect and preserve our intellectual property. We rely on laws in the United States and other countries to protect our proprietary rights. However, we may not be able to sufficiently prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without our authorization, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. The use of our intellectual property or similar intellectual property by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, causing us to lose sales or otherwise harm the reputation of our brands. From time to time, we discover products that are counterfeit reproductions of our products or that otherwise infringe on our proprietary rights. These activities typically increase as brand recognition increases, especially in markets outside the United States. Counterfeiting of our brands could divert sales away from our company, and association of our brands with inferior counterfeit reproductions could adversely affect the integrity and reputation of our brands. Additionally, there can be no assurance that the actions that we have taken will be adequate to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. As we extend our brands into new product categories and new product lines and expand the geographic scope of our marketing, we could become subject to litigation based on allegations of the infringement of intellectual property rights of third parties. In the event a claim of infringement against us is successful, we may be required to pay damages, royalties or license fees to continue to use intellectual property rights that we had been using, or we may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable time. Litigation and other legal action of this type, regardless of whether it is successful, could result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our management and other resources. Our business is subject to various federal, foreign, state and local laws and regulations, and the costs of compliance with, or the violation of, such laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our costs or operations. In the United States, we are subject to stringent standards, laws and other regulations, including those relating to health, product performance and safety, labor, employment, privacy and data security, anti-bribery, consumer protection, taxation, logistics and similar operational issues. In addition, operating in foreign jurisdictions, including those where we may operate retail stores, requires compliance with similar laws and regulations. These laws and regulations, in the United States and abroad, are complex and often varies widely by jurisdiction, making it difficult for us to ensure that we are currently or will be in the future compliant with all applicable laws and regulations. We may be required to make significant expenditures or modify our business practices to comply with existing or future laws or regulations, and unfavorable resolution to litigation or a violation of applicable laws and regulations may increase our costs and/or materially limit our ability to operate our business. In addition, the restaurant industry is highly competitive and requires compliance with a variety of federal, state and local regulations. In particular, all of our Tommy Bahama restaurants serve alcohol and, therefore, maintain liquor licenses. Our ability to maintain our liquor licenses depends on our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The loss of a liquor license would adversely affect the profitability of a restaurant. Additionally, as a participant in the restaurant industry, we face risks related to food quality, food-borne illness, injury, health inspection scores and labor relations. 35 Table of Contents Regardless of whether allegations related to these matters are valid or whether we become liable, we may be materially affected by negative publicity associated with these issues. The negative impact of adverse publicity relating to one restaurant may extend beyond the restaurant involved to affect some or all of the other restaurants, as well as the image of the Tommy Bahama brand as a whole. Changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and profitability. As a global apparel company, we are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We record our income tax liability based on an analysis and interpretation of local tax laws and regulations, which requires a significant amount of judgment and estimation. Our effective income tax rate in any particular period or in future periods may be affected by a number of factors, including among others a shift in the mix of revenues, income and/or losses among domestic and international sources during a year or over a period of years, changes in tax laws, the outcome of income tax audits in various jurisdictions, and the resolution of uncertain tax positions, any of which could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and profitability. Fluctuations and volatility in the cost and availability of raw materials, labor and freight may materially increase our costs. We and our third party suppliers rely on the availability of raw materials at reasonable prices. The principal fabrics used in our business are cotton, linens, wools, silk, other natural fibers, synthetics and blends of these materials. The prices paid for these fabrics depend on the market price for raw materials used to produce them. In addition, the cost of the materials that are used in our manufacturing process, such as oil-related commodity prices and other raw materials, such as dyes and chemicals, and other costs, can fluctuate. During fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012, we saw an increase in the costs of raw materials, particularly cotton, as a result of rising demand from the economic recovery, weather-related supply disruptions, significant declines in U.S. inventory and a sharp rise in the futures market for cotton. We historically have not entered into any futures contracts to hedge commodity prices. In addition, we have recently seen increases in the cost of labor at many of our suppliers, particularly with the growth of the middle class in certain developing countries, as well as in freight costs, resulting from increased oil prices. We believe that these cost pressures may not be alleviated in the near future and could further increase. Although we attempt to mitigate the effect of increases in our cost of goods sold through sourcing initiatives and by selectively increasing the prices of our products, these product costing pressures, as well as other variable cost pressures, may materially increase our costs, and we may be unable to fully pass on these costs to our customers, particularly in our Lanier Clothes and Ben Sherman operating groups. We may be unable to grow our business through organic growth and/or, if and when appropriate, acquisitions of lifestyle brands that fit within our business model, and any failure to successfully execute this aspect of our business strategy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. One component of our business strategy is to grow our business through organic growth and/or, if and when appropriate, acquisitions of lifestyle brands that fit within our business model. Organic growth may be achieved by, among other things, increasing our market share in existing markets, including to existing wholesale customers; selling our products in new markets, including international markets; increasing sales in our direct to consumer channels; and increasing the product offerings within our various operating groups. Successful growth of our business through organic growth and/or 36 Table of Contents acquisitions is subject to, among other things, the ability of our management to implement plans for expanding our existing businesses and our ability to find suitable acquisition candidates at reasonable prices in the future. We may not be successful in this regard, and our inability to grow our business may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Continued challenges with implementing our long-term strategic plans at Ben Sherman could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The Ben Sherman brand continues to face challenges due to our ongoing elevation of the distribution of the brand, the sluggish economic conditions in the United Kingdom and Europe and missteps in the merchandise mix in our own retail stores in the second half of fiscal 2012. Ben Sherman's recent results have been exacerbated by a number of related factors, including operational and product assortment issues relating to inventory management, control of expenses, buying and merchandising decisions, pricing decisions and underperformance of retail stores. While we believe that Ben Sherman will have growth opportunities in the long-term if the elevation of the brand is successful and the economic conditions in the United Kingdom and Europe improve, there can be no assurances that our actions will be successful. Continued operational or product issues could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The acquisition of new businesses has certain inherent risks, including, for example, strains on our management team and unexpected acquisition costs. From time to time, we acquire new businesses or product lines when we believe appropriate investment opportunities are available. As a result of acquisitions, we may become responsible for unexpected liabilities that we failed or were unable to discover in the course of performing due diligence. Although we may be entitled to indemnification against undisclosed liabilities from the sellers of the acquired business, we cannot be certain that the indemnification, even if obtained, will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with the business or assets acquired. Any of these liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, integrating acquired businesses is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. The integration process for newly acquired businesses could create for us a number of challenges and adverse consequences associated with the integration of product lines, employees, sales teams and outsourced manufacturers; employee turnover, including key management and creative personnel of the acquired and existing businesses; disruption in product cycles for newly acquired product lines; maintenance of acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies; and the impairment of relationships with customers of the acquired and existing businesses. Further, we may not be able to manage the combined operations and assets effectively or realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. We may not be successful in identifying locations and negotiating appropriate lease terms for retail stores and restaurants. An integral part of our strategy has been to develop and operate retail stores and restaurants for certain of our lifestyle brands. Net sales from our retail stores and restaurants were 44% of our consolidated net sales during fiscal 2012. We expect to increase the number of our retail stores during fiscal 2013 and in future years, including opening Tommy Bahama retail stores in geographic territories where we have not previously operated Tommy Bahama retail stores. We lease all of our retail store and restaurant locations. Successful operation of our retail stores and restaurants depends, in part, on our ability to identify desirable, brand appropriate retail locations, 37 Table of Contents the overall ability of the retail location to attract a consumer base sufficient to make store sales volume profitable, and our ability to negotiate satisfactory lease terms and employ qualified personnel. We compete with other retailers for these favorable store locations, lease terms and desired personnel. If we are unable to identify new locations with consumer traffic sufficient to support a profitable sales level or the local market reception to a new retail store opening is inconsistent with our expectations, retail growth may be limited. Further, if existing retail stores and restaurants do not maintain a sufficient customer base that provides a reasonable sales volume, it could have a negative impact on our sales, gross margin, and results of operations. Our retail store and restaurant leases generally represent long-term financial commitments for which we also incur substantial fixed costs for each location's design, leasehold improvements, fixtures and systems installation. From time to time, we seek to downsize or close some of our retail store or restaurant operations, which may require a modification or termination of an existing lease; such actions may require payment of exit fees and/or result in fixed asset impairment charges, the amounts of which could be material. In addition, our retail store and restaurant leases generally grant the third party landlord with discretion on a number of operational matters, such as store hours and construction of our improvements. The recent consolidation within the commercial real estate development, operation and/or management industries may further reduce our leverage with those parties, thereby materially adversely affecting the terms of future leases for our retail stores and restaurants or making entering into long-term commitments with such parties cost prohibitive. During fiscal 2012, we opened new Tommy Bahama retail stores in various jurisdictions in Asia and also began operating stores in Australia, and we anticipate continuing to expand our Tommy Bahama international operations in fiscal 2013; these efforts may not be successful. During fiscal 2012, we opened three Tommy Bahama retail stores in Asia and acquired the Tommy Bahama business in Australia, including five retail stores, from our former licensee. We continue to look for additional locations for retail stores in the Asia/Australia markets and expect to open two retail stores, including a Tommy Bahama island, in Tokyo and a new retail store in Sydney, Australia during fiscal 2013. The continued development of our Tommy Bahama international infrastructure and related store openings has had, and will continue to have, a negative impact on our operating results until we are able to generate sufficient sales in those operations to offset the ongoing infrastructure costs. Expanding our operations internationally requires significant capital investment and long-term commitments, and there are risks associated with doing business in these markets, including understanding fashion trends and satisfying consumer tastes, including understanding sizing and fitting in these markets; market acceptance of our products, which is difficult to assess immediately; establishing appropriate logistics functions and operational infrastructure; managing compliance with the various legal requirements; staffing and managing foreign operations; fluctuations in exchange rates; obtaining governmental approvals that may be required to operate; potentially adverse tax implications; local regulations relating to employment and retail and restaurant operations; and maintaining proper levels of inventory. If we are unable to properly manage these risks or if our international expansion efforts do not prove successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Our geographical concentration of retail stores and wholesale customers for certain of our products exposes us to certain regional risks. Our retail locations are heavily concentrated in certain geographic areas in the United States, including Florida and California for our Tommy Bahama retail stores (42 out of 105 domestic stores in these states as of February 2, 2013), Florida for our Lilly Pulitzer retail stores (five out of 19 stores as 38 Table of Contents of February 2, 2013), and the United Kingdom for our Ben Sherman retail stores (10 out of 19 stores as of February 2, 2013). Additionally, a significant portion of our wholesale sales for Tommy Bahama, Lilly Pulitzer and Ben Sherman products are concentrated in the same geographic areas as our own retail store locations for these brands. Due to this concentration, we have heightened exposure to factors that impact these regions, including general economic conditions, weather patterns, natural disasters, changing demographics and other factors. Our Internet operations subject us to risks that could adversely affect our results and operations. Certain of our brands, including Tommy Bahama, Lilly Pulitzer and Ben Sherman, distribute products through their e-commerce websites and communicate with consumers through social media and other methods of digital marketing. These operations subject us to numerous risks that could adversely affect our results and operations, including diversion of sales from our brick-and-mortar retail stores; failure to properly communicate our brand message or recreate the ambiance of our retail stores; reliance on third party service providers for software, processing and similar services; liability for website content; credit card fraud; and failure of computer systems, theft of personal consumer information and computer viruses. If we are unable to properly manage these risks, we may lose sales and/or our reputation and credibility may be damaged. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels. We schedule production from third party manufacturers based on our expectations for the demand for our products. However, we may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory, which may result in inventory markdowns or the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices. These events could significantly harm our operating results and impair the image of our brands. Conversely, we may not be in a position to order quality products from our manufacturers in a timely manner and/or we may experience inventory shortages as demand for our products increases, which might result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty and result in lost sales, any of which could harm our business. Our international operations, including foreign sourcing, result in an exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. As a result of our international operations, we are exposed to certain risks in conducting business outside of the United States. Substantially all of our orders for the production of apparel in foreign countries are denominated in U.S. dollars. If the value of the U.S. dollar decreases relative to certain foreign currencies in the future, then the prices that we negotiate for products could increase, and it is possible that we would not be able to pass this increase on to customers, which would negatively impact our margins. However, if the value of the U.S. dollar increases between the time a price is set and payment for a product, the price we pay may be higher than that paid for comparable goods by competitors that pay for goods in local currencies, and these competitors may be able to sell their products at more competitive prices. Additionally, currency fluctuations could also disrupt the business of our independent manufacturers by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and difficult to finance. We received U.S. dollars for more than 90% of our product sales during fiscal 2012. The sales denominated in foreign currencies primarily relate to Ben Sherman sales in the United Kingdom and Europe. As we increase our operations in foreign markets, the volume of our sales denominated in foreign currencies would be expected to increase. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar compared to these other currencies in which we have sales could result in lower levels of sales and earnings in our consolidated statements of operations, although the sales in foreign currencies could be equal to or greater than amounts in prior periods. In addition, to the extent that a stronger U.S. dollar increases 39 Table of Contents costs, and the products are sold in another currency, but the additional cost cannot be passed on to our customers, our gross margins will be negatively impacted. We hold licenses for the use of other parties' brand names, and we cannot guarantee our continued use of such brand names or the quality or salability of such brand names. We have entered into license and design agreements to use certain trademarks and trade names, such as Kenneth Cole, Dockers, Geoffrey Beene and Ike Behar, to market some of our products. During fiscal 2012, sales of products bearing brands licensed to us accounted for 8% of our consolidated net sales and 60% of our Lanier Clothes net sales. When we enter into these license and design agreements, they generally provide for short contract durations (typically three to five years); these agreements often include options that we may exercise to extend the term of the contract but, when available, those option rights are subject to our satisfaction of certain contingencies (e.g., minimum sales thresholds) that may be difficult for us to satisfy. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to renew these licenses on acceptable terms upon expiration or that we will be able to acquire new licenses to use other popular trademarks. The termination or expiration of a license agreement will cause us to lose the sales and any associated profits generated pursuant to such license and in certain cases could result in an impairment charge for related intangible assets. In addition to certain compliance obligations, all of our significant licenses provide minimum thresholds for royalty payments and advertising expenditures for each license year, which we must pay regardless of the level of our sales of the licensed products. If these thresholds are not met, our licensors may be permitted contractually to terminate these agreements or seek payment of minimum royalties even if the minimum sales are not achieved. In addition, our licensors produce their own products and license their trademarks to other third parties, and we are unable to control the quality of these goods that others produce. If licensors or others do not maintain the quality of these trademarks or if the brand image deteriorates, our sales and any associated profits generated by such brands may decline. We make use of debt to finance our operations, which exposes us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial position and operating results. Our levels of debt vary as a result of the seasonality of our business, investments in our operations and working capital needs. As of February 2, 2013, we had $108.6 million of borrowings outstanding under our U.S. Revolving Credit Agreement and $7.9 million in borrowings outstanding under our U.K. Revolving Credit Agreement. In the future, our debt levels may increase under our existing facilities or potentially under new facilities, or the terms or forms of our financing arrangements may change. Our indebtedness includes, and any future indebtedness may include, certain obligations and limitations, including the periodic payment of principal and interest, maintenance of certain covenants and certain other limitations. The negative covenants in our debt agreements limit our ability to incur debt, guaranty certain obligations, incur liens, pay dividends, repurchase common stock, make investments, sell assets, make acquisitions, merge with other companies, or satisfy other debt. These obligations and limitations may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and limit our flexibility in carrying out our business plan and planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industry in which we operate. In addition, we have interest rate risk on indebtedness under our U.S. Revolving Credit Agreement and U.K. Revolving Credit Agreement. Our exposure to variable rate indebtedness may increase in the future, based on our working capital needs and/or the terms of future financing arrangements. Although from time to time we enter into hedging arrangements to limit our exposure to interest rate risk, an increase in interest rates may require us to pay a greater amount of our funds 40 Table of Contents from operations towards interest, even if the amount of borrowings outstanding remains the same. As a result, we may have to revise or delay our business plans, reduce or delay capital expenditures or otherwise adjust our plans for operations. Our operations may be affected by changes in weather patterns, natural or man-made disasters, war, terrorism or other catastrophes. Our sales volume and operations may be adversely affected by severe weather conditions, natural or man-made disasters, war, terrorist attacks, including heightened security measures and responsive military actions, or other catastrophes which may cause consumers to alter their purchasing habits or result in a disruption to our operations. Because of the seasonality of our business, the concentration of a significant proportion of our retail stores and wholesale customers in certain geographic regions, the concentration of our sourcing operations and the concentration of our distribution operations, the occurrence of such events could disproportionately impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 