D. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Report, the following factors should be considered in evaluating SAND and our business. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are not presently aware or that we currently consider immaterial, may also impair our business, our operating results and financial condition. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS o WE HAVE NOT BEEN PROFITABLE IN FOUR OUT OF OUR LAST FIVE FISCAL YEARS AND WE HAVE SOLD SOME LIQUID INVESTMENTS AND ASSETS TO FUND OUR OPERATIONS. WE MAY HAVE TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL FINANCING TO FUND OUR FUTURE OPERATIONS. Because we have not been profitable in four out of our last five fiscal years, we have had to fund our losses through a combination of sales of liquid investments and assets. We incurred losses of $8,522,676 in fiscal 2001, $14,812,001 in the fiscal 2002, $7,129,930 in fiscal 2004 and $7,363,054 for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2005. Although, fiscal year 2003 was profitable, the profit was due to the gain from the sale of ClarityBlue, which amounted to $11,757,280. Had we not sold ClarityBlue, we would have shown a loss of $1,964,199. We expect to continue to incur losses in the near future and possibly longer. Although our expenses materially decreased as a result of the sale of ClarityBlue, so did our revenue base and additional efforts will have to be made to grow our sales force and build our marketing efforts to address the North American and international markets as well as other specific markets in order to achieve future sales growth. If our efforts are not successful in continuing to create additional revenues, we may be unable to achieve profitability in the future. If we do not achieve profitability in the future, we would have to obtain additional financing to fund our operations. We expect to continue to incur substantial operating expenses in the foreseeable future in relation to our revenue base and our operating results will be adversely 7 affected if our revenues do not increase. We must, among other things, continue to develop market awareness and acceptance of our products, increase the scope of our operations, respond to competitive developments, continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, and continue to commercialize products incorporating advanced technologies. These efforts may prove more expensive than we currently anticipate. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in addressing these risks, and the failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. o OUR DIFFICULTY IN ACCURATELY FORECASTING OUR RESULTS FROM QUARTER TO QUARTER MAY AFFECT OUR CASH RESOURCES AND RESULT IN WIDE FLUCTUATIONS IN THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR STOCK. Our operating results have varied on a quarterly basis in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors outside of our control. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our necessary cash expenditures during each quarter or obtain timely financing to cover any shortfalls. We also believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not meaningful and that one should not rely on any such comparisons as an indication of our future performance. In addition, it is likely that in one or more future quarters, our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In such event, the trading price of our Class A common shares could be materially harmed. When the market price of a company's stock drops significantly, shareholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against that company. A lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management and other resources. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS o BECAUSE WE ARE NOW SEEKING TO SECURE EFFECTIVE PARTNERSHIPS WITH SYSTEMS INTEGRATORS AND APPLICATION VENDORS, IT MAY BE DIFFICULT FOR YOU TO EVALUATE OUR BUSINESS AND ITS PROSPECTS. Your evaluation of our business is more difficult because we are moving to secure effective partnerships with systems integrators and application vendors which may take some time to mature into predictable revenue producers. Our prospects are difficult to predict and may change rapidly. You should consider the risks, expenses and difficulties that we may encounter or incur as a company now operating in a rapidly evolving market, including our substantial dependence on a single line of products and our need to manage expanding operations. Our business strategy may not be successful, and we may not successfully address these risks. o WE PLAN TO FURTHER DEVELOP OUR DIRECT SALES FORCE. Though we plan to continue to sell our products through a distribution network of value-added resellers, resellers and distributors located in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and Germany, direct sales will still play an important role in developing important reference accounts in new markets. Competition for sales personnel qualified for 8 these positions is intense. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do or have dedicated greater resources to hiring qualified sales personnel. In addition, turnover among our sales force tends to slow sales efforts until replacement personnel are recruited and trained. We may not be able to attract and retain the sales and marketing personnel we desire, even after spending significant resources to do so, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. o WE DEPEND ON KEY PERSONNEL. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key management, engineering, sales and marketing personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. We have an employment contract with and maintain "key person" life insurance on only one employee, Arthur G. Ritchie, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. We do not believe the proceeds of Mr. Ritchie's life insurance would adequately compensate us for his loss. We believe that our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing, and finance personnel. Competition for qualified personnel remains intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. We have in the past experienced difficulties in hiring highly qualified sales and engineering personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in either hiring required personnel or the rate at which new people become productive, particularly sales personnel and engineers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. o OUR PRODUCT SALES CYCLE IS LENGTHY. The purchase of our products often requires significant, executive-level investment and system design decisions by our customers. Sales take a long time to conclude because we must provide a significant level of education about the use and benefits of our products. We believe that many companies are not yet fully aware of the benefits of enterprise-wide business intelligence solutions, nor have such companies yet deployed business intelligence solutions on an enterprise-wide basis. Accordingly, the sales cycle associated with the purchase of the SAND Analytic Server and the SAND Searchable Archive is typically three to nine months in length. During this period, a potential sale is subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control, including customers' budgeting constraints and internal acceptance review procedures including, in some instances, approval by the board of directors of the customer. Based in part upon, among other things, our lengthy sales cycle, the timing of sales is difficult to predict and our earnings and operating results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter during our current fiscal year. As a result of the long sales cycle, it may take us a substantial amount of time to generate revenue from our sales effort. 9 o WE MUST CONTINUE TO MAINTAIN AND GROW OUR INDIRECT SALES CHANNELS. Our success in maintaining our indirect channels, value-added resellers, resellers and distributors is important to our ability to achieve revenue growth and improved operating margins on product sales. Despite the fact that we continue to invest significant resources to develop our indirect channels, we may not be able to continue to attract and retain additional companies in our indirect channels that will be able to market our SAND Analytic Server and SAND Searchable Archive effectively and will be qualified to provide timely and cost-effective customer support and services. In addition, our agreements with companies in our indirect channels do not restrict such companies from distributing competing products, and in many cases, these agreements may be terminated by either party without cause. We may not be able to successfully expand our sales through indirect channels, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. o WE OPERATE IN A HIGHLY COMPETITIVE MARKET. We compete in the highly competitive computer software industry as a result of bringing our SAND Analytic Server and SAND Searchable Archive to market. The market in which we operate is still developing and is intensively competitive, highly fragmented, and characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving standards. Our current and potential competitors offer a variety of software solutions and generally fall within several categories: - - vendors of business intelligence software such as Cognos, Business Objects, Crystal Decisions, SAP, Siebel and Hummingbird; - - vendors offering alternative approaches to delivering analysis capabilities to users, such as MicroStrategy, Computer Associates, Hyperion Software and Actuate; - - database vendors that offer products, which operate specifically with their proprietary database, such as Microsoft, IBM, and Oracle Corporation: - - other companies that may in the future announce offerings of enterprise business intelligence solutions. Our competitive position in our market is uncertain, due principally to the variety of current and potential competitors and the emerging nature of the market. We expect additional competition as other established and emerging companies enter into the business intelligence software market and new products and technologies are introduced. Increased competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced gross margins, longer sales cycles, and loss of market share. Current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, thereby increasing the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Our current or 10 future indirect channel partners including systems integrators and application vendors may establish cooperative relationships with our current or potential competitors and limit our ability to sell products through particular distribution channels. Such competition could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into new licensing agreements, and maintenance and support renewals for existing licensing agreements, with respect to our products. Competitive pressures could also require us to reduce the price of our products. We compete primarily on the basis of product features, time to market, ease of use, product performance, product quality, analytical capability, user scalability, open architecture, customer support and price. While we believe we presently compete favourably with respect to each of these factors, some potential customers may be reluctant to work with us due to our fluctuating stock price or our financial condition. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. o AS WE EXPAND BEYOND NORTH AMERICA, WE ARE EXPOSED TO CERTAIN RISKS INHERENT IN DOING BUSINESS ON AN INTERNATIONAL LEVEL. Although the sale of ClarityBlue has reduced the importance of revenues earned outside North America, these revenues are expected to be significant nonetheless in the future. Sales to customers outside of North America, including sales generated by our U.K. subsidiary, represented 89%, 72% and 52% of our total revenue for fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. We now have sales offices in the United Kingdom and Germany. A key component of our strategy is our planned expansion into additional international markets. To facilitate this international expansion, we need to localize our products for the additional foreign markets. If the revenues generated by these expanded international operations do not offset the expense of establishing and maintaining these foreign operations, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. To date, we have only limited experience in developing localized versions of our products and marketing and distributing our products internationally. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully localize, market, sell and deliver our products in these markets. There are also additional risks in doing business on an international level, such as increased difficulty in controlling operating expenses, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, longer payment cycles, problems in collecting accounts receivable, political instability, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, seasonal reductions in business activity, and potentially adverse tax consequences. These risks could adversely impact the success of our international operations. We cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international operations and, consequently, on our business, operating results and financial condition. 11 WE CURRENTLY DEPEND ON SALES OF THE SAND ANALYTIC SERVER AND THE SAND SEARCHABLE ARCHIVE TO GENERATE MOST OF OUR REVENUE. We expect sales of our SAND Analytic Server and SAND Searchable Archive to constitute most of our revenue for the foreseeable future. If customers do not purchase these products, we do not currently offer any other products or services that would enable us to become profitable. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and customer requirements, emerging competition, and frequent new product introductions. Our products incorporate a number of advanced technologies, including a proprietary data analysis engine, a distributed architecture, as well as Web access and delivery technology. We may be required to change and improve our products in response to changes in operating systems, applications, networking and connectivity software, computer and communications hardware, programming tools and computer language technology. As a result, the life cycle of our products is difficult to estimate. We attempt to establish and maintain partner alliances with influential companies in a variety of core technology areas to help us successfully respond to changing technology, identify new product opportunities, or develop and bring new products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our failure to establish such alliances could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We have in the past experienced delays in software development and there can be no assurance that we will not experience delays in connection with our current or future product development activities. In particular, development efforts in the UNIX server environment are complex, and we have in the past encountered delays in developing products for this environment. Our failure, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we or our competitors may announce enhancements to existing products, or new products that have the potential to supplant or provide lower cost alternatives to our existing products. The introduction of such enhancements or new products could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Furthermore, introduction by us of products with reliability, quality or compatibility problems could result in reduced orders, delays in collecting accounts receivable, and additional service costs. The failure to introduce a new product or product enhancement on a timely basis could delay or hinder market acceptance. Research and development efforts may require us to expend significant capital and other resources. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. o WE DEPEND ON THE MARKET FOR ENTERPRISE BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE. We are focusing our selling efforts increasingly on larger, enterprise-wide implementations of our SAND Analytic Server, our SAND Searchable Archive and our Nucleus Product Suite, and we expect such sales to constitute an increasing portion of any 12 future revenue growth. To date, our selling efforts have resulted in limited enterprise-wide implementations of our SAND Analytic Server, our SAND Searchable Archive and our Nucleus Product Suite. While we have devoted resources to promoting market awareness of our products and the needs our products address (including training our sales personnel and demonstrating our products at industry conferences and trade shows), we cannot assure you that these efforts will be sufficient to build market awareness of the need for the enterprise-wide implementations for business intelligence or acceptance of our products. Failure of a significant market for enterprise business intelligence products to fully develop, or failure of enterprise-wide implementations of our products to achieve broad market acceptance, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. o AS A RESULT OF THEIR COMPLEXITY, OUR PRODUCTS MAY CONTAIN UNDETECTED ERRORS, FAILURES OR VIRUSES AND WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS FOR SUCH DEFECTS. Despite our testing of new products and their use by current and potential customers when first introduced or when new enhancements are released, we cannot assure you that there will be no defects or errors in new products or enhancements in our commercial shipments. Although we have not experienced material adverse effects resulting from any such defects and errors to date, we cannot assure you that defects and errors will not be found in new products or enhancements, resulting in loss of revenues, delay in market acceptance or damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. While our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure for potential claims based on errors or malfunctions of our products, it is possible, however, that these provisions may not be effective under the laws of certain jurisdictions. Although we have not experienced any product liability claims to date, the sale and support of our products entails the risk of such claims. Although we carry insurance against product liability risks, we cannot assure you that such insurance would be adequate to cover a potential claim. A product liability claim brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. o THERE IS LIMITED PROTECTION OF OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS. We currently rely primarily on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, patents, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. We seek to protect our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection. We currently have seven United States patents and twenty-eight foreign patents. We cannot assure you that our patents will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged, or that the rights granted under our patents will provide competitive advantages to us. Others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology or design around any patent that may be owned by us. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. 13 Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and while we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software products exists, we can expect software piracy to be a persistent problem. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States and Canada. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights in North America or abroad will be adequate. We have entered into source code escrow agreements with a number of our customers and indirect channel partners requiring release of source code under certain conditions. The provision of source code escrows may increase the likelihood of misappropriation by third parties. Although we are not currently aware of any claims asserted by third parties that we infringe on their intellectual property, we expect that in the future software product developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management's attention and resources, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In the event of a successful claim of product infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Finally, we may rely upon certain software that we license from third parties, including software that may be integrated with our internally-developed software and used in our products to perform key functions. We cannot assure you that these third-party software licenses will be available to us on terms acceptable to us or indeed that our suppliers will continue to support their software or remain in business. Our inability to obtain or maintain any such software licenses could result in shipment delays or reductions until equivalent software could be developed, identified, licensed and integrated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. RISKS WHICH MAY AFFECT THE VALUE OF OUR CLASS A COMMON SHARES o SHARES ELIGIBLE FOR FUTURE SALE. Sales of a substantial number of our Class A common shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price for our Class A common shares. We are authorized to issue an unlimited number of Class A common shares, of which 12,818,189 shares are outstanding as of January 20, 2006, and we have reserved an additional 1,072,000 Class A common shares for future issuance. The issuance of these authorized or reserved shares could substantially dilute the equity interest of our existing shareholders and could result in a significant decrease to the market price of our Class A common shares. We have granted rights to purchase 1,072,000 Class A common shares to directors, officers, employees and consultants upon the exercise of options at prices ranging from US$0.69 to US$7.00 per share. 14 o THE PRICE OF OUR CLASS A COMMON SHARES ON THE OTC BULLETIN BOARD IS LIKELY TO BE VOLATILE. Our Class A common shares are currently listed on the OTC Bulletin Board ("OTCBB") under the symbol SNDTF.OB. Prior to August 9, 2005, our class A common shares were traded on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market. Our share price, which has ranged from a low of US$0.22 to a high of US$0.98 during the past twelve months, could be subject to wide fluctuations. The volume of trading in our Class A common shares on the OTCBB has not been substantial. As a result, even small dispositions or acquisitions of our class A common shares in the public market could cause the market price to fall or increase substantially. Our share price could also be subject to wide fluctuations in response to broad market and industry factors, actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results, volatile economic conditions, new products offered by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and other events or factors that may be beyond our control. o EXISTING STOCKHOLDERS WILL CONTINUE TO EXERCISE EFFECTIVE CONTROL OVER US Our senior management and directors, together with entities affiliated with those individuals, beneficially own approximately 29.2% of our Class A common shares. Arthur G. Ritchie, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer and a director of SAND, beneficially owns approximately 18.3% of SAND's Class A common shares. Jerome Shattner, Executive Vice President, beneficially owns 8.2% of our Class A common shares, while George Wicker, a director of SAND, beneficially owns 2.1% of our Class A common shares. Other senior management or directors own approximately 0.6% of our Class A common shares. These shareholders may, as a practical matter, continue to be able to control the election of the directors of SAND and the determination of many corporate actions. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of SAND. o OUR ABILITY TO ISSUE CLASS B SHARES COULD MAKE IT MORE DIFFICULT FOR A THIRD PARTY TO ACQUIRE US TO THE DETRIMENT OF HOLDERS OF CLASS A COMMON SHARES. Our articles of incorporation provide for an unlimited number of Class B shares which, if ever they are issued, may make it difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our board has the authority to attach special rights, including voting or dividend rights, to the Class B shares. However, the voting rights of a Class B share cannot exceed those of a Class A common share. Class B shareholders who possess these rights could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our company. 15 o THE RIGHTS THAT MAY HAVE BEEN AND MAY IN FUTURE BE GRANTED TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS MAY ALLOW OUR BOARD AND MANAGEMENT TO DETER A POTENTIAL ACQUISITION OF OUR COMPANY Our Board of Directors adopted a shareholder rights plan which was ratified by our shareholders on December 16, 2003. The approval of the renewal and confirmation of the shareholder rights plan by the directors on November 21, 2005 was ratified confirmed and approved by the shareholders at the Annual and Special Meeting of Shareholders on December 15, 2005. Under the plan, rights to purchase Class A common shares have been issued to holders of Class A common shares. The rights become exercisable under certain circumstances in which someone acquires 20% or more of our outstanding Class A common shares. As a result of the plan, anyone wishing to take-over the company may be forced under certain circumstances to negotiate a transaction with our Board of Directors and management or comply with certain bid criteria in order not to trigger the exercise of rights. This could prolong the take-over process and, arguably, deter a potential bidder. 