D. Risk factors Forward Looking Statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 This annual report contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (referred to hereafter as the “Exchange Act”). These forward-looking statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways, including the use of future or present tense language, refer to future events. Océ has based these forward-looking statements on its current expectations and projections about future events. Océ’s expectations and projections may change, and Océ’s actual results, performance or achievements could be significantly different from the results expressed in or implied by these forward-looking statements based on various important factors, risks and uncertainties (some of which are beyond Océ’s control), which are neither manageable nor foreseeable by Océ. When considering these forward-looking statements, readers should keep in mind these risks, uncertainties and other cautionary statements made in this annual report or Océ’s other annual or periodic reports filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed in this annual report might not occur. These factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, changes in economic and business conditions, customer demand in competitive markets, the successful introduction of new products and services into the markets, developments in technology, adequate pricing of products and services, competitive pricing pressures within Océ’s markets, the financing of Océ’s business activities, efficient and cost-effective operations, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, fluctuations in interest rates, political uncertainties, changes in governmental regulations and laws, tax rates, successful acquisitions, joint ventures and disposals and the effects of recent or further terrorist attacks and the war on terrorism. Océ’s forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which the statements are made, and Océ undertakes no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Océ’s business is affected by adverse economic conditions and resulting declines in customers’ investments in machines Océ’s profitability may be adversely affected by global economic conditions and a prolonged economic slowdown. Océ’s revenues generally are obtained from three sources: revenues from product sales, revenue from rentals and services and interest from financial leases. Océ groups its revenues based on whether the revenue is non-recurring revenue (revenues from sales of machines, software and professional services) or recurring revenue (revenues from services, materials, rentals, interest and business services). 7 Table of Contents During a short-term economic slowdown, non-recurring revenues are adversely affected because customers are reluctant to buy new machines, but this adverse impact is generally offset by recurring revenue from long-term maintenance and service contracts. During a prolonged economic slowdown, however, the reluctance of Océ customers to invest has an adverse impact on both recurring and non-recurring revenue because both types of revenue are to a large extent based on the installed machine population. As long-term maintenance contracts expire during a prolonged economic slowdown, the Company enters into fewer new long-term agreements to replace expiring contracts because less customers make investments in machines during the slowdown. The Company experienced a significant economic slowdown in 2002 through 2004, which had an impact first on non-recurring revenue in 2002 through 2004 and then on recurring revenue in 2005. In 2005 non-recurring revenues (excluding lease effects) increased by more than 10%, which was largely attributable to color products and the slightly improved economy. Although recurring revenues (excluding lease effects) decreased overall by 1.1% in 2005, these revenues increased in the last quarter of 2005, and the Company expects that these revenues will increase in 2006 as a result of the increase in non-recurring revenues. The Company must anticipate trends and respond to changing customer preferences with a pipeline of new products The markets for Océ’s machines and services are rapidly changing and becoming increasingly more complex. The market for black-and-white printers has reached maturity in terms of technology and, as a result, product development focuses on aspects such as cost-price, total cost of ownership, operational reliability, environmental friendliness, ease of use and productivity, while the most important future trends are the shift toward color applications, high volume production printing and document management software. Océ’s success depends in large part on its ability to develop and introduce new products and services in a timely manner that satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements, keep pace with technological developments and are accepted in the market. The Company believes that because it sells most of its machines through its direct sales force and the Company’s organization provides servicing for its machines, the Company is able to gather continuing feedback from its customers and to understand the changing demands of the market. The Company is then able to use this information to adapt its products and services to address its customers’ requirements and to develop new products or adapt current products for its customers. There is no assurance that the Company will be successful in anticipating and developing new products, product enhancements or new solutions and services to adequately address changing technologies and customer requirements or that the Company’s products, enhancements, solutions or services will be successful in the marketplace or will generate increased revenue. In addition, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to anticipate and develop technological improvements, adapt its products to emerging industry standards and changing customer preferences or requirements or produce high quality products, enhancements and releases in a timely and cost-effective manner in order to compete with applications offered by its competitors. The Company is highly dependent on its ability to research and develop new products and continue the pipeline of products in the years ahead Océ’s competitive strength hinges on its ability to respond quickly to ever changing demands in the market by introducing distinctive products and providing systems and services to a diverse category of customers. Research and the development of new technology plays a key role in enabling the Company to continue to respond to the market and introduce new products and update existing products. The Company offers technological concepts, which it has developed internally, through the acquisition of businesses or by entering into joint ventures or development agreements with third parties, which give the Company a clear and distinctive profile. The most important elements of Océ’s product profile are reliability, productivity, ease of use, environmental friendliness and a low total cost of ownership. In order to continue to develop new technology, Océ invests approximately 6 to 7% of its revenues annually in research and development. The process of developing new technologies, products and solutions is inherently complex and uncertain and involves significant time, resources, costs and risks. Generally, the development of new technologies and products takes between five and ten years. Accurate anticipation of customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends is critical. Océ must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether these investments will eventually result in products that achieve customer acceptance and generate the revenues required to provide anticipated returns from these investments. Océ may experience difficulties in realizing the expected benefits from its investments in new technologies and companies. In addition, reliance on new technology may result in performance or quality problems as technology is implemented. There is no assurance that the technology will be successful or timely or that it will respond to current market demands. 8 Table of Contents Océ’s business model is founded on a strong and diverse in-house technology portfolio combined with close interaction between the research and development component of the business and the sales and service component of the business. The close and continuing interaction between research and development, on one hand, and direct sales and services, on the other hand, is crucial to the Company’s strategy to provide high quality products and services in response to the demands of the market. In addition, because of the rapid developments in technology and in the markets in which Océ operates, there is a risk that changes in technology could render the Company’s technology, products, enhancements and solutions outdated or obsolete, and could result in the Company’s inventory becoming, in part, obsolete or unsaleable. Although Océ attempts to reduce this risk by applying a clear depreciation method for its machines, there is no assurance that as technology changes, Océ will not hold a larger than expected number of obsolete machines or machines that cannot be placed with customers. Océ constantly evaluates its research and development to maintain a tight focus on developing technologies that will be successful in the future and in entering into alliances with third parties. For example, one of the key factors of success in producing manageable document flow is an effective interaction between hardware and software. To ensure that Océ’s hardware and software products are compatible and provide the necessary components of a total document flow process, Océ’s research and development team includes a senior vice president who has specific responsibility to develop compatible software programs. Finally, Océ constantly reviews its product portfolio to evaluate relevant markets, to take full advantage of product launches, to improve functionality and the cost of its machines and to offer advanced application software in order to provide total solutions for the document management needs of its customers. Failure to adequately protect the Company’s intellectual property could harm its business Océ’s products (hardware and software) are based on technology that Océ owns. In order to protect its proprietary technology, as of November 30, 2005, Océ had 5,916 patents and patent applications pending throughout the world. In addition, prior to disclosing any proprietary technology to third parties, the Company requires these third parties to enter into protective arrangements with respect to technology that is not covered by patents. There is no assurance that such measures will be adequate to protect the confidentiality of Océ’s intellectual property. The Company faces significant competition Océ operates in an environment of significant competition, driven by rapid technological advances and changing customer demands. In terms of size, Océ is a relatively small player compared to its direct competitors, and the difference in size between Océ and several of its main competitors has a direct influence on the Company’s competitive position. Bigger companies have greater resources available for research and development, are better able to invest in new activities and products and are more resilient to downturns in economic conditions or setbacks in product development compared to a smaller company like Océ. To minimize this risk, Océ concentrates on areas and activities in which it has the greatest chance of success given its know-how and capabilities. Accordingly, Océ concentrates mainly on professional markets which demand high quality products and services by offering technological concepts, products and services that Océ develops internally. Favorable pricing is challenging in a competitive market Océ’s ability to succeed is dependent, in part, upon its ability to obtain competitive pricing for its products and ongoing services. Depending on competitive market factors, the prices that Océ may be able to obtain in the future for its products and services may vary from historical levels. The Company has experienced increasing price pressure on its margins. In an effort to reduce the cost of a product to a customer, the Company has taken steps to reduce its cost of production by transferring some of its Venlo-based manufacturing operations to Central Europe and the Far East. At the end of 2005, 20% of the Company’s manufactured value originated from those regions, and the Company expects this level to increase to 50% by the end of 2006. The Company’s success is dependent on its ability to distribute its products and services in the countries in which it operates Océ generally distributes and sells most of its originally manufactured products and related services directly instead of through third party distributors or re-sellers. As a result, one of the Company’s goals in the past several years has been to increase the quantity and quality of its sales force. The acquisition of Imagistics in October 2005 significantly increased the Company’s distribution capability in its Digital Document Systems Strategic Business Unit, especially in North America. 9 Table of Contents The Company relies on third parties in connection with the production of its machines Working with third parties is an essential part of Océ’s production strategy. Océ manufactures key strategic components for its products (such as process drums, organic photoconductors, silicone materials and toners) internally. With respect to non-strategic components and modules, Océ generally engages third parties to supply parts and components in accordance with specifications that have been precisely defined by Océ. These third parties are involved in Océ product development from an early stage to ensure that the non-strategic components and modules meet Océ’s high standards of quality. Approximately 95% of the non-strategic components used in Océ products are manufactured in this manner. Océ currently assembles its final products internally at its facilities in the Netherlands; Czech Republic; Poing, Germany; and Vancouver, Canada. During 2004, Océ began implementation of its previously-announced plans to relocate portions of its manufacturing and assembly activities (related to non-strategic manufacturing) in the Netherlands to Central Europe and the Far East (via outsourcing) in order to reduce its manufacturing expenses and by November 30, 2005, approximately 20% of this manufacturing has been relocated. Relocation of these manufacturing and assembly operations to Central Europe and the Far East will require that the Company’s supply chain is functioning effectively and efficiently. In order to ensure that this transition is made smoothly and seamlessly to Océ and its customers, Océ has increased its cooperation with external logistic specialists. Although the Company intends for this transition to be seamless to its customers and is monitoring it closely, there is no assurance that the Company will be successful in making this transition in the intended timeframe, proposed cost structure and with no impact on its production of machines. Océ depends on third parties to manufacture non-strategic parts and components of its machines As stated above, approximately 95% of the non-strategic parts and components for Océ’s machines are made by third parties. A particular component may be available only from a limited number of suppliers. Suppliers may from time to time extend lead times, limit supplies, increase prices or fail to produce components in accordance with the Company’s specifications due to capacity constraints or other factors, which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver its products on a timely basis. Moreover, if one of the third parties to which the Company outsources manufacturing of components or sub-assemblies fails to perform, or experiences delays or disruption to its manufacturing, or experiences financial difficulties, this could adversely affect the Company’s sales and operating profit. Although Océ does not foresee any delays or interruptions arising out of the transfer of manufacturing and assembling operations, temporary or significant delays in the supply of components or the assembly of machines could adversely impact Océ’s business. The Company is highly dependent on information technology systems The Company’s operations rely on complex information technology systems and networks, which are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources. Although the Company takes precautions against interruptions of the Company’s information technology systems or networks or unrestricted disclosure of its proprietary information, a prolonged interruption or disclosure of proprietary data could have a material adverse effect on its operations, sales and operating profit. The Company’s products and solutions could be subject to technology-based claims from third parties Because the Company’s products and solutions include complex technology, the Company faces the risk of claims that it has infringed third parties’ intellectual property rights. As the complexity of the technology and the overlap of product functionalities increase, the possibility of an inadvertent infringement and related intellectual property claim against the Company increases. There may be patents and patent owners relevant to the Company’s product lines that are unknown to the Company. In addition, although the Company endeavors to ensure that third parties with which it works possess appropriate intellectual property rights and provide customary indemnification and warranties, the Company recognizes that it cannot fully avoid claims of intellectual property rights infringement created by third parties with which it works. Similarly, the Company and its customers may face claims of infringement in connection with its customers’ use of the Company’s products and services. Any claims, regardless of merit, may result in costly and time-consuming litigation, the payment of damages or other compensation, the invalidation of intellectual property rights on which the Company depends, diverting the attention of the Company’s personnel or product shipment delays or require the Company to develop non-infringing technology or to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. If the Company would be unable to develop non-infringing technology, or if royalty or licensing agreements were not available on commercially acceptable terms, the Company could be precluded from making or selling the affected products. Océ’s success is dependent in part on efficient operations and maximum productivity Océ’s success is dependent in part on operations that are conducted with optimum efficiency with the goal that operating costs be maintained at the lowest possible level. The Company often evaluates its operations to achieve operational 10 Table of Contents excellence and, when necessary, restructures its operations from time to time. For instance, in 2005, the Company initiated a restructuring of its operations in Europe which will result in the discontinuation of approximately 500 jobs, and the Company took similar measures in the United States in January 2006 in conjunction with the integration of Imagistics, which will result in the discontinuation of approximately 250 jobs. The Company’s indebtedness increased significantly in 2005, and the Company has a significant amount of short-term debt that matures in 2006 The Company’s liquidity is based primarily on a combination of cash flow from operations and financing from third parties. As of November 30, 2005, the Company’s total indebtedness (short term and long term) was Euro 896 million, which is a much higher level than the Company’s debt as of November 30, 2004 (which was Euro 481 million) due to its acquisition of Imagistics. As a result of this increased indebtedness (and the related increased interest expense), the Company’s ability to generate cash flow before financing activities (“free cash flow”) has become more important to the Company’s liquidity. To achieve maximum free cash flow, the Company will continue to work to make its operations more efficient, increase its revenues and carefully manage its working capital. Additional attention will be required with respect to cash management. In addition, in connection with its acquisition of Imagistics, the Company borrowed Euro 438 million of short-term indebtedness which is due and payable by March 15, 2006, with an option to extend the final maturity date for an additional three months. The Company intends to refinance this indebtedness prior to its maturity date. The Company is in the process of outsourcing its leasing business, which has financial consequences In 2001, the Company announced its plans to outsource its lease activities to third parties, which began in 2002 and is continuing. Outside the United States, Océ continues to outsource its lease activities under private label arrangements to third party leasing companies. Under these arrangements, the outsourcing of Océ’s lease activities consists of two key elements. New end-user finance lease arrangements are entered into directly by Océ’s vendor lease partners, prior to which Océ has sold the equipment and any software licenses to that vendor and Océ’s existing lease portfolio is transferred to its vendor lease partners (under a sale or assignment agreement) on a non-recourse basis. In the United States, Océ’s captive lease company, Océ-Financial Services, Inc., is the party that enters into the finance lease arrangement with the end-user and then sells the end-user contracts and underlying assets to its vendor lease partners, also on a non-recourse basis. Although leasing activities are provided through third parties, Océ continues to provide service and maintenance to its customers which have acquired the leased machines and products, to ensure that they receive high quality services. The outsourcing of the lease activities has financial consequences as reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included with this report. The outsourcing of the lease portfolio presently results in off-balance sheet treatment with respect to the assets and related liabilities of the financial leases outsourced in the United States, Europe and Australia. Future developments with respect to the International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) or U.S. GAAP may adversely affect the off-balance sheet accounting treatment. Diversity in revenues is important to the Company’s stability Océ’s strong technology base, the geographic markets in which Océ operates and its long-term relationship with diverse categories of customers help Océ spread the risk related to a downturn in the economic cycle. In addition, outsourcing of production activities and flexible deployment of personnel in the Company’s manufacturing facilities help to offset some of the negative effects of a downturn in the economic cycle. On a geographic basis after the acquisition of Imagistics, the Company’s revenue in the United States is expected to grow to approximately 43% of its total revenue in 2006. A balanced spread of revenues and income among the various markets is essential for Océ to ensure that it is not dependent on the results in a limited number of countries. The Company’s financial results may be impacted by fluctuations in exchange rates and interest rates Océ achieves approximately one third of its revenues within the Euro-zone and approximately two thirds of its revenues from outside of the Euro-zone. As a multinational company, Océ’s Consolidated Financial Statements are affected by foreign currency fluctuations in two respects: “transaction exposures” and “translation exposures”. “Transaction exposures” arise when net cash flows occur in currencies other than the Euro. For instance, a transaction exposure arises when products that are developed and manufactured in the Euro-zone (and the corresponding expenses are recorded in Euros) are sold into the United States (and 11 Table of Contents the corresponding revenues are recorded in U.S. dollars). “Translation exposures” arise when values in currencies other than the Euro (such as a minority equity interest or shareholders’ equity) are measured over time but are converted into Euros based on a conversion rate on a certain date (such as November 30, 2005). At Océ, transaction exposures are the subject of an active foreign exchange management policy which is implemented in close consultation with the Board of Executive Directors and which is described in further detail on page 70 and further, in Item 11 of this report and in Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Currency translation exposures, however, are not hedged. This risk is regarded as an inherent part of doing business as a multinational company. In view of the increase in the United States operations, the equity position in U.S. dollars has increased and therefore the risk of translation exposures has risen. Interest risks relate to the possible mismatch in exposures to fixed interest rates. Fixed interest revenues are generated by lease and rental contracts, while fixed interest charges arise from the financing of these contracts. The extent to which this risk is hedged depends upon the overall risk profile. Océ hedges these fixed interest revenues for at least 60% via fixed interest loans, which is described in further detail in Item 11 of this report. Because of the outsourcing of the lease activities, the Company’s interest rate risk has been significantly reduced. With respect to the Company’s credit facilities that are not used for financing leases, the Company’s policy is to maintain a balance between fixed and variable interest rates on the basis of interest rate expectations and developments. In such cases risk-averse action always has top priority. Changes in the Company’s markets could have an adverse effect on the value of the Company’s long-lived assets The Company’s long-lived assets were Euro 1,129 million at November 30, 2005 and Euro 519 million at November 30, 2004. Océ regularly reviews the value of these assets and recognizes an impairment when the carrying value of an asset is not supported by the Company’s current expectations of future cash flows attributable to these assets. Significant declines in stock prices, market capitalization and credit ratings of market participants, as well as the Company’s ongoing review and refinement of its business plans, may result in substantial impairment write-downs of its long-lived assets at any time. Recognition of impairments of long-lived assets has had a limited adverse affect on the Company’s results and financial condition. See Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects”, for a further discussion of the impairment charges related to 2005. The Company has risks related to its pension and post-retirement benefit plans The Company currently maintains pension plans in many countries and many of such pension plans are defined benefit plans. The Company’s obligations to make contributions to fund defined benefit plan obligations are based on the current value of the assets of a plan as of November 30 of each year and pension obligations on that date. Because many plan assets are invested in financial market instruments, if the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the funding calculation, the likelihood of Company contributions to its plans increases. The equity markets can be volatile, and therefore the Company’s estimate of future contribution requirements may change substantially in a relatively short period of time. Similarly, changes in interest rates can impact the Company’s contribution requirements. Volatility in the financial markets and fluctuations in interest rates may require the Company to contribute additional funds in the future. If the Company is required to make contributions to fund the pension plans, it will have an impact on the Company’s financial statements and cash flow available for other uses will be reduced. The transition from accounting under Dutch GAAP to accounting under IFRS may have a material effect on the Company For financial years commencing on or after January 1, 2005, all publicly listed companies in the European Union have to report on the basis of IFRS. Starting in fiscal year 2006, Océ will prepare its annual financial statements and quarterly reports on the basis of IFRS. On October 31, 2005, Océ published details of the provisional pro forma effects of the conversion from Dutch GAAP to IFRS. This relates to the financial information as from December 1, 2004 and for the three subsequent quarters of the 2005 financial year, ending on August 31, 2005. Up to and including the third quarter of the 2005 fiscal year net income under IFRS was Euro 0.1 million higher than under Dutch GAAP. Future results under IFRS may become more volatile due to value changes in assets and liabilities which will be included in the Company’s financial results at fair value and because of the change from systematic amortization of capitalized goodwill (supplemented by impairment testing) to solely impairment testing. The IFRS accounting standards for financial instruments will be applied for the first time as from December 1, 2005. This will have consequences in particular for the Company’s financing preference shares (described on page 65) and the minority 12 Table of Contents interest item. Under Dutch GAAP, these items are classified as equity but under IFRS these items need to be classified as debt under the current contractual arrangements. Océ is currently negotiating with the holders of depositary receipts representing the Company’s Cumulative Financing Preference Shares to change the contractual arrangements in such a way that these financial instruments would be classified as equity under IFRS too. Océ’s equity on the basis of IFRS was reduced on December 1, 2004 by Euro 69 million as a result of a change in the valuation of pension obligations (Euro 65 million) and option plans (Euro 4 million). In March 2006, for purposes of comparison, Océ will announce IFRS-based pro forma financial information for the full 2005 fiscal year. This will also include the application of IFRS standards for financial instruments with effect from December 1, 2005. The implementation of the Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 requirements Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations require us to include in our future annual reports on Form 20-F an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, PricewaterhouseCoopers (“PwC”), our independent registered public accounting firm, must attest to and report on management’s assessment. This requirement is currently expected first to apply to our annual report on Form 20-F for our fiscal year ending November 30, 2006. We are evaluating our internal control systems to ensure that they will allow our management to report on, and PwC to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting. If we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to prevent or detect material misstatements in a timely manner. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If the assessment of our internal control identifies material weaknesses that must be disclosed, we may receive an attestation with an adverse opinion from PwC as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting. Furthermore, potential acquisitions of businesses that are currently not in compliance with Section 404 requirements could lead to disclosures on currently unforeseen deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. Integration of Imagistics is important to the Company’s continued success In October 2005, Océ acquired Imagistics. It is essential that Imagistics be integrated into the Océ Group quickly and effectively so that the potential synergy effects can be realized quickly. Achieving these synergies is of great importance because the acquisition has given rise to higher interest costs (which will be approximately U.S. $40 million in 2006) because of the significant amount of debt taken on in connection with the transaction and the amortization of certain intangible fixed assets arising from the transaction. As a result of the acquisition, Océ’s risks have increased as a result of its greater exposure in the office market, which is the most competitive market segment in the Document Management business. If the integration of Imagistics into the Océ Group is not realized successfully or projected synergies cannot be realized, this could have a significant impact. Governmental policies may affect our business As a global company with operations in 80 countries, the Company’s business is subject to direct and indirect regulation in each of the countries in which it does business. As a result, changes in various types of regulation could affect the Company’s business adversely. The implementation of new technological or legal requirements could impact the Company’s products, manufacturing or distribution processes, and could affect the timing of product introductions, the cost of production or products as well as their commercial success. Moreover, regulations that adversely affect the pricing of the Company’s products could affect net sales and operating profit. The impact of these changes in regulations could affect adversely the Company’s business even where the specific regulations do not directly apply to the Company or its products. The Company is subject to additional risks that may affect the printing industry in general In addition to the risks listed above, other risk factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied include, but are not limited to: • terrorist attacks or war; • the availability and cost of raw materials; • import, export and tariff regulations; 13 Table of Contents • the ability to attract and retain skilled employees at reasonable costs; • claims or lawsuits and compliance with regulations and laws relating to competition, health, safety and the environment and the use of hazardous materials or other legal matters; • changes to tax rates; and • the ability to enter into, and resulting success of, future business combinations, acquisitions and dispositions. 