D. Risk factors Our business and an investment in our securities are subject to a variety of risks. The following risk factors describe the most significant events, facts or circumstances that could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to implement our business plan and the market price for our securities. Many of these events are outside of our control. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known or currently considered insignificant may also have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to implement our business plan and the market price for our securities. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS: There exists doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements for the year ended July 31, 2010 disclose that there is substantial doubt that we will be able to continue as a going concern. The inclusion of this note in our financial statements and the accompanying report of our auditor underscores our need to raise additional financing or become profitable in the short-term to continue operations. As further discussed below, if we are unable to achieve our objectives or raise additional capital in the short term, we may be forced to suspend or cease operations. We have a history of losses. We have not experienced a profitable year since fiscal year 2003, when we had a gain from the sale of a subsidiary. On July 31, 2010 we had a working capital deficiency of $982,935 and an accumulated deficit of $42,926,696. Our funds on hand, are not sufficient to sustain operations for the next year. As a result, we need to raise additional capital to sustain our operations. In order to become profitable, we will need to generate significant additional revenues to offset our cost of revenues, sales and marketing, research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. We may not achieve or sustain our revenue or profit objectives and our losses may continue or increase in the future in which case you might lose your entire investment. If we are not able to fund our operations through product sales and investments by third parties, we will have to cease operations. We may not be able to obtain additional financing when needed or on acceptable terms. There is no assurance that the additional financing we need will be available or, if it is, whether it will be available on acceptable terms. Our inability to obtain additional financing, or the terms on which it may be available, could have a material adverse effect on our business and require us to suspend or cease our operations. If we are required to cease our operations, you could lose your entire investment. - 7 - We have incurred substantial debt which could affect our ability to obtain additional financing and may increase our vulnerability to economic and/or business downturns. On April 18, 2008, the Company issued secured convertible debentures ("Convertible Debentures") on a private placement and received gross proceeds of $1,009,819 (U.S.$1,002,600) representing a total of 1,114 units. Each unit consists of one 8% Convertible Debenture due December 31, 2017, having a nominal value of U.S.$900, redeemable at the option of the Company if the bid price of the common share has been above U.S.$1.50 for 60 consecutive trading days, and convertible at the option of the holder into class "A" common shares at U.S.$0.45 per share, and 1,000 share purchase warrants of the Company. Each warrant entitles the holder to purchase one additional common share (warrant share) of the Company at a price of U.S.$0.70 per warrant share at any time until the earlier of the close of business day which is either thirty six (36) months from April 18, 2008 or the bid price of the stock has been above U.S.$1.50 for sixty (60) consecutive trading days. Interest is calculated at the rate of 8% per annum, payable in common shares at a rate of U.S.$0.45 per share. The interest is due on each conversion date (date when the principal amount is being converted) subsequent to January 1, 2009 or on the maturity date. The financing is secured by a first rank hypothec on all of the Company’s property and assets, movable and immovable, corporeal and incorporeal, present and future, for the principal accrued interest amounts. The proceeds from the private placement were used for marketing and advertising and for expansion of the business. During fiscal year 2007, the Company formalized the conditions pertaining to a loan obtained from a significant shareholder, who at the time was also the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. The loan originated from amounts owed by the Company to the shareholder by virtue of his previous employment contracts as President and Chief Executive Officer. The loan was bearing interest at 15% and was repayable on demand. As at July 31, 2009, an amount of $1,605,616 was owing to the President and Chief Executive Officer and significant shareholder. The significant shareholder ceased to be President and Chief Executive Officer on October 31, 2009. The amount owed the former President and Chief Executive Officer was again formalized in a loan agreement on October 31, 2009. The total amount owing under the loan agreement at October 31, 2009 was $1,466,677. Under the terms of the loan agreement, the loan is repayable in three (3) principal annual installments of $488,892 over the next 3 years on January 1, 2011, 2012 and 2013. The loan bears interest at 15% and is payable semi-annually on January 1 and June 30 of each year. The amount may be prepaid at any time by the Company without penalty. In the event of default to pay an amount when due, the significant shareholder has the right to convert all outstanding amounts owed to him hereunder into common shares of the Company based on the average closing price of the shares on the OTC Bulletin Board for the month immediately preceding the month in which such right is exercised. In addition and also upon default, the significant shareholder has the right to require the Company to purchase all common shares in the capital stock of the Company owned directly or indirectly by the significant shareholder at a purchase price per share equal to the greater of: i) the average closing price of the shares on the OTC Bulletin Board over the previous 30-day period plus 15%, or ii) the book value of the shares as determined by the auditors of the Company. As at July 31, 2010, an amount of $1,407,874, including accrued interest of $204,214, was outstanding under the loan agreement. As a result, we are subject to the risks associated with substantial indebtedness, including: - we are required to use a portion of our cash flow to pay debt service costs; - it may be more difficult and expensive for us to obtain additional funds through financing, if available at all; - we are more vulnerable to economic downturns and fluctuations in interest rates, less able to withstand competitive pressures and less flexible in reacting to changes in our industry and general economic conditions; and - 8 - - if we default under any of our existing indebtedness or if our creditors demand payment of a portion or all of our indebtedness, we may not have sufficient funds to make such payments. If we default under our Convertible Debentures, we may have to forfeit our rights to our assets. We have pledged all of our assets, including the assets of our subsidiaries, as security to holders of our Convertible Debentures. A default under our Convertible Debentures, if not waived or cured, would permit the holders of our Convertible Debentures to foreclose on the collateral and we could lose all our rights in the collateral, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business. As a result, we could have to suspend or cease our operations and you could lose your entire investment. We may not be able to develop or manage our internal growth. If we are successful in growing our existing businesses, such growth may strain our management, human resources and information systems. To manage our growth successfully, we will have to add managers and employees and update our operating, financial and other systems, procedures and controls. We are highly dependent on our executive management and other key employees. We rely heavily on our executive management and key employees for providing services and for continued business development. We have employment agreements which contain non-competition and non-solicitation provisions with certain key executive managers and other key employees. Our business could be materially adversely affected if a number of our executive managers and other key employees were to leave us and if we were unable to enforce the non-competition and non-solicitation agreements or to attract and retain qualified replacements. If we cannot deliver the features and functionality our customers demand, we will be unable to attract customers, and that will result in a loss of income and eventually a termination of our operations. As a provider of business intelligence management information technology, our future success depends largely upon our ability to determine the features and functionality our customers demand and to design and implement products that meet their needs in a cost efficient manner. Although we have often been a leader in introducing new products and technologies, maintaining that leadership while responding to downward pressures on price is an ongoing challenge. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully determine customer requirements or that our current or future products and services will adequately satisfy customer demands. If we cannot meet our customers' demands, we will not generate revenues from this business and we may have to cease or suspend key operations. Our business depends on the protection of our intellectual property and proprietary information. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and patent laws to protect our proprietary rights in our products and technology. These measures may not be adequate to protect our trade secrets and proprietary technology. As a result, unauthorized third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. To enforce and defend our intellectual property rights and our proprietary rights, we may have to engage in litigation, either domestically or in other countries, and we could face substantial costs and diversion of resources, including management’s attention, regardless of the outcome of that litigation. Our attempts to enforce our intellectual property rights may not be successful, may result in royalties that are less than the cost of such enforcement efforts or may result in the loss of the intellectual property altogether. Furthermore, we may not have adequate funds available to prosecute actions to protect or defend our proprietary rights, in which case those using our proprietary rights may continue to do so in the future. Even if we succeeded in protecting our intellectual property, others may independently develop similar technologies or products that do not infringe on our intellectual property. - 9 - Third parties may claim that our current or future products or services infringe their proprietary rights or assert other claims against us. Any claims filed against us alleging that we infringe third-party proprietary rights could result in significant expenses or restrictions on our ability to provide our products and services. As the number of entrants into our market increases, the possibility of an intellectual property or other claim against us grows. Any intellectual property or other claim, with or without merit, would be time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management’s attention from focusing on our core business. As a result of such a dispute, we may have to pay damages, incur substantial legal fees, develop costly non-infringing technology, if possible, or enter into license agreements, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. As a result, our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. No such claims have been filed against us at this time. Competitive conditions could materially adversely affect our businesses. The markets in which we do, and intend to do business are highly competitive. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends, in part, upon our ability to develop and commercialize efficient and effective products based on our technologies. We compete against established companies as well as numerous independently owned small businesses. Many of our competitors are capable of developing products based on similar technology, have developed and are capable of continuing to develop products based on other technologies, which are or may be competitive with our products and technologies. There are many competitors in all market segments in which we operate, some of which have significantly greater resources or capital than us, or have better reputations among potential customers in the delivery of particular services or products. Our competitors may succeed in developing competing products and technologies that are more effective than our products and technologies, which may render our existing and new products or technology uncompetitive, uneconomical or obsolete. We may be exposed to liability claims. We have general liability insurance coverage for CDN$5,000,000. However, if a judgment is rendered against us in excess of the amount of our coverage, we may have to cease operations. If we are sued for any reason, we will have to rely on our liability insurance to pay any judgment rendered against us. Although we maintain a general liability insurance of CDN$5,000,000, there is no assurance that: - our insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities if a product or a service we provide causes harm or fails to perform as promised; - adequate liability insurance will continue to be available in the future; or - our insurance can be maintained on acceptable terms. The obligation to pay any liability claim in excess of whatever insurance we are able to obtain would increase our expenses and could greatly reduce our assets or cause us to cease operations. If a judgment is rendered against us for any amount over our coverage of CDN$5,000,000, we may have to cease operations. - 10 - Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could result in decreased revenues and increased operating expenses. While our functional currency is the Canadian dollar and we report our results in Canadian dollars, we have revenues and operating expenses outside of Canada. Fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar are difficult to predict and can cause us to incur currency exchange costs. Although, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our future operating results, any material changes could cause our operating results to be materially adversely affected. The sales cycle for our products is lengthy. The purchase of our products often requires significant, executive-level investment and system design decisions by our customers. Sales may take a long time to conclude because we must provide a significant level of education about the use and benefits of our products. Accordingly, the sales cycle associated with the purchase of our products is typically between six to twelve months in length. During this period, a potential sale may be subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control, including customers' budgeting constraints and internal acceptance review procedures including, in some instances, approval by the board of directors of the customer. Our existing shareholders can exercise effective control over us. Our major shareholders beneficially own approximately 34.55% of our Class A Common Shares. Arthur G. Ritchie, Chairman of the Board and a director of SAND, beneficially owns approximately 22.65% of SAND’s Class A Common Shares. Thomas O’Donnell, President and Chief Executive Officer of SAND and a director of SAND, beneficially owns approximately 5.24% of SAND’s Class A Common Shares. Carol Shattner, the wife of the late Jerome Shattner (Jerome Shattner was the late Executive Vice President of the Company), beneficially owns 6.66% of our Class A Common Shares. These shareholders may, as a practical matter, continue to be able to control the election of a majority of the directors of SAND and the determination of many corporate actions. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of SAND. Our ability to issue Class B Shares could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us to the detriment of holders of Class A Common Shares. Our articles of incorporation provide for an unlimited number of Class B Shares which, if ever they are issued, may make it difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our board has the authority to attach special rights, including voting or dividend rights, to the Class B Shares. However, the voting rights of a Class B Share cannot exceed those of a Class A Common Share. Class B shareholders who possess these rights could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our Company. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR COMMON SHARES: The market for our common shares is limited. The market for our common shares is limited and you may not be able to resell your common shares. There is currently only a limited trading market for our common stock. Our common shares trade on the OTC Bulletin Board operated by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. under the symbol "SNDTF". Trading volume of OTC Bulletin Board stocks has been historically lower and more volatile than stocks traded on an exchange. As a result, you may not be able to resell your securities in open market transactions. - 11 - The entry of substantial additional common shares into the market could cause our share price to fall. As of November 16, 2010, 15,889,620 shares of our common stock were outstanding and 4,787,215 shares are issuable upon conversion or exercise of our outstanding Convertible Debentures, warrants, stock options and share awards. The entry of this substantial number of shares into the public market, or the mere expectation of the entry of those shares into the market could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to obtain capital through securities offerings. Our common shares are subject to penny stock rules which restricts the liquidity of your investment. Our common shares are now and may continue to be in the future subject to the penny stock rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”). These rules regulate broker/dealer practices for transactions in "penny stocks". Penny stocks are generally equity securities with a price of less than $5.00, subject to certain exceptions. The penny stock rules require broker/dealers to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker/dealer must also provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker/dealer and its salesperson and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. The bid and offer quotations and the broker/dealer and salesperson compensation information must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to completing the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer's confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction, the broker and/or dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These additional penny stock disclosure requirements are burdensome, discourage investor interest, and may reduce the trading activity in the market for our common stock. As long as the common stock is subject to the penny stock rules, holders of our common stock may find it more difficult to sell their securities. Our operating results have and may continue to vary from quarter to quarter, and as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of our investors and analysts, which may cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. As a software vendor, our contract flow is sometimes unpredictable, and to the extent that we do not generate new business upon completion of existing contracts, our revenue will decline. Due to these factors, our revenue and operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Due to these risks, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of future performance. Ineffective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results and stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect mistatements because of their inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Even effective internal controls can only provide reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including the failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a material adverse effect on our stock price. - 12 - 