risk factors. Our independent registered public accountants have expressed that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accountants issued an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern on our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, based on our significant operating losses and the requirement for external financing. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that would result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Our inability to continue as a going concern would require a restatement of assets and liabilities on a liquidation basis, which would differ materially and adversely from the going concern basis on which our consolidated financial statements have been prepared. We have generated limited operating revenues. If we are unable to commercially manufacture higher volumes and sell our recycled structural plastic products, we will not be able to generate profits and we may be forced to curtail operations. As of the date hereof, we have generated limited revenues. As a result, we have limited operating revenue and we anticipate that, for at least the near future, we will operate at a loss. Our ultimate success will depend on our ability to commercially manufacture higher volumes and sell our recycled plastic products. If we are unable to do so, we will not be able to generate profits and we may be forced to curtail operations. Due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, our ability to raise capital from outside sources could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets or an unforeseen outflow of cash. If we are unable at any point to obtain needed capital from outside sources, we will be forced to reduce or curtail our operations. The demand for rail ties and structural building products fluctuates, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Demand in the end markets served by our customers is influenced by many factors, including the following: ·global and regional economic, political and military events and conditions; ·fluctuations in energy, fuel, oil and natural gas prices and the availability of such fuels; ·changes in residential and commercial construction demands, driven in part by fluctuating interest rates and demographic shifts; ·changes in demand for our products due to technological innovations; ·changes in laws and regulations (or the interpretation thereof) related to the production of structural plastic products or the environment; ·prices, availability and other factors relating to our products; 15 ·continued preferences for wood, metal or concrete, rather than plastic, structural products; ·increases in costs of labor and labor strikes; and ·population growth rates. We cannot predict or control the factors that affect demand for our products. Negative developments in the above factors, among others, could cause the demand for structural plastic products to decline, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. If we cannot produce enough of our products to satisfy customer demand, our ability to execute our business plan will be adversely affected. Our customers’ needs will often require the fulfillment of orders within short periods. As a result, a sudden increase in demand from our customers without a correlative increase of our production capacity or inventory may prevent us from timely satisfying our customers’ demand for our products. Because our customers’ demand will persist regardless of our ability to meet that demand, our inability to produce enough of our product to satisfy our customers’ needs may lead to the use by those customers of wood, concrete or metal products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Our business is subject to risks in obtaining the recycled materials we use at acceptable prices. The production of our products requires substantial amounts of recycled plastic and recycled plastic composite materials. Our business could suffer from the loss of significant sources of these materials, the payment of higher prices for these materials or the failure to obtain sufficient additional materials to meet planned increases in production. In addition, the price of recycled plastic and recycled plastic composite materials sometimes experiences cyclical variation in cost as a commodity. Our ability to obtain adequate supplies of recycled materials at acceptable cost and quality depends on our success in developing diverse sources of supply that meet our requirements, maintaining favorable relationships with suppliers and managing the collection of supplies from geographically dispersed locations. We have substantial convertible debt outstanding which is due beginning in August 2017. We have approximately $15.8 million in convertible debt outstanding with maturity dates beginning in August 2017. This debt obligation is secured by all of our assets. We may not have the capability to repay these obligations when they become due, and will either need to generate appropriate cash flows from operations, raise additional capital from other sources or negotiate with the debt holders to extend the maturity to allow us to commercialize our business plan and further generate the necessary capital for ultimate repayment. If we are unable to do this, we will be forced to curtail or cease operations. We have substantial convertible preferred stock issued, containing a redemption feature by the holder any time after their three-year anniversary of the original purchase. We have 10% convertible preferred stock with a face value of approximately $6.9 million outstanding. At the holder’s election, it may force the redemption of their 10% convertible preferred stock any time after the third anniversary of their original purchase. Currently, we do not have the resources to redeem these securities and we are prohibited from redeeming these securities under Colorado law. Then at such time as we no longer are such restricted, we will either need to generate appropriate cash flows from operations, raise additional capital from other sources or negotiate with the preferred stockholders to eliminate or postpone the redemptions. We are dependent on our ability to raise capital from external funding sources. If we are unable to continue to obtain necessary capital from outside sources, we will be forced to reduce or curtail operations. We have not generated any significant cash flow from operations and we will not be cash flow positive for at least the near future. We also have limited financial resources. As a result, we will need to obtain additional capital from outside sources to continue operations and commercialize our business plan. Our ability to execute our business plan depends upon our ability to obtain financing through: ·bank and other debt financing; ·equity financing; ·strategic relationships; and/or ·other means. Our products are new and, to date, have limited exposure and acceptance in the marketplace. If our products do not receive market acceptance, our ability to execute our business plan will be adversely affected. Although earlier versions of our composite rail ties and structural building products, such as I-beams, T-beams, pilings and boards were sold by a predecessor licensee, our products are still relatively new to the marketplace. As a result, the claims regarding their attributes have not been fully validated in the marketplace through actual extended use. Potential customers may be resistant to trying new products such as ours or, after actual use, may determine that our products do not meet their needs. If our products do not receive market acceptance, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects will be adversely affected. 16 From time to time, our business may rely on contract manufacturers. If one or more we engage do not meet our manufacturing requirements, our ability to manufacture and subsequently sell our products will be materially impaired. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we decided not to engage contract manufacturers to produce our products and instead we leased a suitable facility, acquired and installed the necessary manufacturing equipment and hired and manage the personnel. Although we believe we will be able to control our production processes better and have a positive impact on costs, we have limited experience in managing our own production processes, and we may find that this may not be the case. If that should occur, our results would be impacted and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the past we had relied on third parties, from time to time, to manufacture our products. Consequently, we may be dependent on third parties for the manufacture of our products. There can be no assurance that we will obtain the requisite contract manufacturer or, once retained, that this or other manufacturers will be able to meet our manufacturing needs in a satisfactory and timely manner, or that we can obtain additional contract manufacturers when and if needed. Although we believe there are a number of potential manufacturers available, if we are unable to retain them quickly or cost effectively, our ability to manufacture and sell our products will be materially impaired. Our reliance on contract manufacturers involves a number of additional risks, including the absence of guaranteed capacity and reduced control over the manufacturing process, quality assurance, delivery schedules, production yields and costs, and early termination of, or failure to renew, contractual arrangements. Even though in situations where we may retain responsibility for the manufacture of our products we have control over the manufacturing process, quality assurance, delivery schedules, production yields and costs, we may encounter situations within or beyond our control that impact the production of our products. Our business is highly reliant on a small group of customers. If we lose business from those customers, our sales will be materially impaired. We are subject to risk related to customer concentration because of the relative importance of our largest customers and the increased ability of those customers to influence pricing and other contract terms. Although we strive to broaden and diversify our customer base, a significant portion of our revenue is derived from a relatively small number of customers. Consequently, a significant loss of business from, or adverse performance with regard to, any of our major customers may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Similarly, the renegotiation of major customer contracts may also have an adverse effect on our financial results. If we are unable to develop substantial sales and marketing capabilities, we most likely will not be able to generate adequate sales. Sales and marketing have, to date, been conducted by a limited number of employees including several members of our senior management team. In the future, we may utilize a joint venture business strategy in certain markets in order to gain sales in a timely and efficient manner. Alternatively, with incremental funding, we may hire additional sales and marketing staff, additional engineers and supporting staff and implement a detailed marketing program. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in entering into joint ventures or developing a sales and marketing force or that our sales and marketing efforts will be successful. If, as our international sales operations increase, our employees or agents violate the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, we may incur substantial fines or penalties, or experience other adverse consequences. Since the year ended December 31, 2010, we have received international orders and increased our efforts to arrange international selling activities. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by the United States and other business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. As we begin to operate and sell internationally, there is an increasing risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors that could be in violation of various laws including the FCPA, even though these parties are not always subject to our effective control. Our attempts to implement safeguards may not be effective in preventing employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors from engaging in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Because our competitors may have greater financial, marketing and research and development resources, we may not be able to successfully compete in our markets. We compete with suppliers of traditional wood and concrete rail ties and building products and several composite product companies that offer products in the markets in which we sell our engineered products. Likewise, in the markets into which we sell our reprocessed plastics, we compete against many companies selling identical or similar products due to the commodity nature of those products. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial and marketing resources and capabilities. These companies and others may independently develop technology for the production of plastic rail ties and structural building products or reprocessed plastics, similar or superior to our technology, which may result in our products becoming less competitive or obsolete. Competition from other companies may increase as advances in technology are made. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against these competitors in the future or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. 17 We depend upon senior management and key personnel. Any loss of their services could negatively affect our business. Our failure to retain and attract such personnel could harm our business, operations and product development efforts. Our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the performance of our senior management team, and others who we may hire. To the extent that the services of any of our key personnel become unavailable, we will be required to retain other qualified persons. We may not be able to find a suitable replacement for any such person. The loss of the services of key persons could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products require sophisticated research and development, quality-assured manufacturing and a significant marketing and sales effort. Our success will depend on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel for these functions and responsibilities. Competition for personnel in all these areas is intense and we may not be able to hire sufficient personnel to achieve our goals. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business, operations and product development efforts most likely would suffer. We may not have adequate protection for the intellectual property rights on which our business depends. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our important intellectual property rights (including those licensed from Rutgers). The steps we have taken may not be adequate to deter misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information or to enable us to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Rutgers University has obtained multiple U.S. patents that are licensed to us and continues to seek patents with respect to newly developed technologies related to our products. We also rely on a combination of trade secret, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information, and if it is necessary to disclose proprietary information to third parties for business reasons, we require that such third parties sign a confidentiality agreement prior to any disclosure. However, these confidentiality agreements cannot guarantee there will not be disclosure or misappropriation of such proprietary information. In addition, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Intellectual property laws provide limited protection. Moreover, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection for intellectual property as the laws of the United States. Litigation may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and the attention of senior management, which may limit the development of our business. If we were found to be infringing any third-party patents, we could be required to pay damages, alter our products or processes, obtain licenses or cease certain activities. We cannot be certain that if we are required to obtain licenses for patents held by third-parties that they would be made available on terms acceptable to us or them, if at all. Environmental liabilities and environmental regulations may have an adverse effect on our business. Our current operations, and those of our potential contract manufacturers, are subject to various federal, state and foreign environmental laws and regulations. Environmental laws and regulations change regularly and we may become subject to increasingly stringent environmental standards in the future, particularly with respect to standards related to climate change issues, such as reporting of greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, we and our potential contract manufacturers are required to comply with environmental laws and the terms and conditions of multiple environmental permits. Failure to comply with these laws or permits could result in fines and penalties, interruption of manufacturing operations, or the need to install pollution-control equipment that could be costly. The company with which we merged previously held minority and non-operating interests in oil and gas properties. The oil and gas business is subject to environmental hazards such as spills, leaks or discharges of petroleum products and hazardous substances. Although no claims have been made to date and we no longer have any such interests, potential environmental liability may not be extinguished with regard to a holder, such as us, of oil and gas interests during the period in which the interests were held. Material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting or our failure to remediate such material weaknesses could result in a material misstatement in our financial statements not being prevented or detected and could affect investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements, as well as our common stock price. We have identified material weaknesses in our disclosure controls and procedures, including a lack of sufficient internal accounting resources, formal procedures and segregation of duties necessary to ensure that adequate review of our financial statements and notes thereto is performed, and lacking the appropriate technical resources to properly evaluate complex debt and equity transactions in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2013. These material weaknesses and our remediation plans are described further in Item 9A. Weaknesses in our disclosure controls and procedures could result in material misstatements in our financial statements not being prevented or detected. We may experience difficulties or delays in completing remediation or may not be able to successfully remediate material weaknesses at all. Any material weakness or unsuccessful remediation could affect our ability to file periodic reports on a timely basis and investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and have an adverse effect on our stock price and our ability to raise additional funds. 18 During the year ended December 31, 2013, we have continued the review, development and implementation of processes, procedures and controls over our financial reporting practices to provide the appropriate level of segregation of responsibilities and oversight. We have limited operating history with regard to our new business and, as a result, there is a limited amount of information about us on which to make an investment decision. We commenced our current operations in November 2007 and have recognized limited revenues to date. Accordingly, there is very little operating history upon which to judge our current operations or financial results. We have outstanding options, warrants, convertible debt and convertible preferred stock, and we are able to issue “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued, resulting in the dilution of common stock ownership. We have outstanding options, warrants, convertible debt and convertible preferred stock that, when exercised or converted, could result in the issuance of up to approximately 99.9 million additional shares of common stock. In addition, our Articles of Incorporation allow the board of directors to issue up to 2,500,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights, privileges and preferences of those shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders. To the extent that outstanding options, warrants, convertible debt or convertible preferred stock are exercised or converted, these shares will represent a dilution to the existing shareholders. The preferred stock could hold dividend priority and a liquidation preference over shares of our common stock. Thus, the rights of the holders of common stock are and will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that we have issued or may issue in the future. Any such issuance could be used to discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal by a third party. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, the sale of our common stock could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common or preferred stock. Future financing will result in dilution to existing stockholders. We will require additional financing in the future. We are authorized to issue 250 million shares of common stock and 2,500,000 shares of preferred stock. Such securities may be issued without the approval or consent of our stockholders. The issuance of our equity securities in connection with a future financing will result in a decrease of our current stockholders’ percentage ownership. Anti-takeover provisions in our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Colorado law could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, including provisions that determine when and by whom special meetings of our stockholders may be called. In addition, certain provisions of Colorado law, including provisions that specify that control of shares acquired in excess of certain specified thresholds will not possess any voting rights unless these voting rights are approved by a majority of a corporation’s disinterested shareholders, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our shareholders. The price of our common stock, as quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, is highly volatile and the purchase or sale of relatively few shares can disproportionately influence the share price. The trading price and volume of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations in response to: ·our ability to execute our business plan; ·actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results; ·the success of our business and operating strategy; and ·the operations and stock price performance of other comparable companies. The trading price of our common stock may vary without regard to our operating performance. Historically, we have been a thinly traded stock, therefore relatively few shares traded can disproportionately influence share price. Our common stock is deemed to be a “penny stock” and trading of our shares is subject to special requirements that could impede our stockholders' ability to resell their shares. Our shares are subject to the Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 which may potentially decrease the ability to easily transfer our shares. Broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in penny stocks” are regulated. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. In addition, the penny stock rules generally require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock, the broker-dealer make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that is subject to the penny stock rules. 19 We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and consequently the only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates. We currently do not plan to declare dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Consequently, the only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in our common stock will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates. 