D. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Report, the following factors should be considered in evaluating SAND and our business. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are not presently aware or that we currently consider immaterial, may also impair our business, our operating results and financial condition. -6- RISKS SPECIFIC TO THE COMPANY: RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS HISTORY OF LOSSES - WE HAVE A HISTORY OF LOSSES AND MAY INCUR FUTURE LOSSES. RISK: We have incurred the following net losses between the financial years 2004 and 2008: 2004 $ (7,129,930) --------------------------------------------- 2005 $ (7,363,054) ---------------------------------------------- 2006 $ (3,926,921) ---------------------------------------------- 2007 $ (2,526,524) ---------------------------------------------- 2008 $ (1,271,950) ---------------------------------------------- We may continue to experience substantial losses in the future. Because we have not been profitable, we have had to fund our losses through raising additional capital by way of a private placement of convertible debentures and a loan from a major shareholder. FACTORS: (i) Our losses could continue for the future years as we continue to develop market awareness and acceptance of our products, expand the scope of our operations, respond to competitive developments, continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, and continue to commercialize products incorporating advanced technologies. (ii) Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability and positive cash flow will depend on our ability to generate sufficient revenues, including locating sufficient customers who will purchase our products and use our services. IMPACT: If our revenues grow more slowly or if our operating expenses are higher than expected, we will not achieve profitability, in which case our financial conditions will suffer. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in addressing these risks, and the failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. -7- INSUFFICIENT CAPITAL - WE NEED TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL TO FUND OUR OPERATIONS. RISK: We need to raise additional capital to fund our operating expenses. Our ability to obtain financing will depend, among other things, on our development efforts, business plan, operating performance and the condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on favourable terms when required, or at all.Given the current global financial crisis, it will be very difficult to raise additional funds through private placement or the market, except through an increase in loans from a major shareholder. FACTORS: (i) In order to continue operations and to help ensure that we would have sufficient capital to take advantage of our core business opportunities, we have taken significant actions to reduce our operating expenses. However, most of our current operating expenses, such as employee compensation and lease payments for facilities and equipment, are relatively stable, and these expense levels are based in part on our expectations regarding future revenues. (ii) As a result, our failure to increase our revenues will negatively impact our financial results. We then would not have sufficient capital to fund our operations, unless we can obtain such capital from external sources. IMPACT: (i) Such outcome could adversely impact our ability to respond to competitive pressures or could prevent us from conducting all or a portion of our current and planned operations. We may need to undertake additional measures to reduce our operating expenses in the future. (ii) Our consolidated financial statements are prepared on a "going concern" basis, meaning that the carrying amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses presented in our financial statements and the balance sheet classification have not been adjusted as they would be required if the going concern assumptions was not appropriate. QUARTERLY FLUCTUATIONS - FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR REVENUES AND OPERATING RESULTS MAY AFFECT OUR CASH RESOURCES AND RESULT IN WIDE FLUCTUATIONS IN THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR STOCK. RISK: Our quarterly and operating results are difficult to predict, have fluctuated in the past, and may fluctuate in the future. FACTORS: Our quarterly results are affected by a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In particular, we depend on customers to demand our technology which may be dependant on their systems integrators' roadmaps for the enterprise-wide implementation of business intelligence. In other circumstances, we depend on customers to adopt our technology which may be delayed due to internal plans and budgets. -8- IMPACT: (i) As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our necessary cash expenditures during each quarter or obtain timely financing to cover any shortfalls. (ii) We also believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not meaningful and that one should not rely on any such comparisons as an indication of our future performance. It is possible that our operating results in some quarters will be below market expectations. This may cause the market price of our common shares to decline. When the market price of a company's stock drops significantly, shareholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against that company. A lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert management's attention from our business. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS SALES CYCLE - OUR PRODUCT SALES CYCLE IS LENGTHY. RISK: The purchase of our products often requires significant, executive-level investment and system design decisions by our customers. Sales take a long time to conclude because we must provide a significant level of education about the use and benefits of our products. FACTORS: (i) We believe that many companies are not yet fully aware of the benefits of enterprise-wide business intelligence solutions, nor have such companies yet deployed business intelligence solutions on an enterprise-wide basis. (ii) Accordingly, the sales cycle associated with the purchase of our SAND/DNA Analytics products and our SAND/DNA Access products is typically three to twelve months in length. During this period, a potential sale is subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control, including customers' budgeting constraints and internal acceptance review procedures including, in some instances, approval by the board of directors of the customer. IMPACT: Based in part upon, among other things, our lengthy sales cycle, the timing of sales is difficult to predict and our earnings and operating results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter during our current fiscal year. As a result of the long sales cycle, it takes us a substantial amount of time to generate revenue from our sales effort. MANAGING GROWTH - IF WE FAIL TO MANAGE OUR FUTURE GROWTH EFFECTIVELY, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MARKET AND SELL OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES SUCCESSFULLY. RISK: Our future operating results also depend to a large extent on our management's ability to plan and direct our growth successfully, including training our sales personnel to become productive and generate -9- revenue, forecasting revenue, controlling expenses, addressing new markets and maintaining our research and development efforts. FACTORS: (i) We are moving to secure and maintain effective partnerships with SYSTEMS INTEGRATORS AND APPLICATION VENDORS which may take some time to mature into predictable revenue producers. (ii) Competition for qualified SALES PERSONNEL is strong. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than us to hire qualified sales personnel. In addition, turnover among our sales force tends to slow sales efforts until replacement personnel are recruited and trained. (iii) Our success in maintaining our INDIRECT CHANNELS, including value-added resellers, resellers and distributors is important to our ability to achieve revenue growth and improved operating margins on product sales. IMPACT: (i) Our prospects with SYSTEMS INTEGRATORS AND APPLICATION VENDORS are difficult to predict and may change rapidly. You should consider the risks, expenses and difficulties that we may encounter or incur as a company operating in a rapidly evolving market. Our business strategy may not be successful, and we may not successfully address these risks. (ii) We may not be able to attract and retain the SALES AND MARKETING PERSONNEL we desire, even after spending significant resources to do so, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. (iii) Despite the fact that we continue to invest resources to develop our INDIRECT CHANNELS, we may not be able to continue to attract and retain additional companies in our indirect channels that will be able to market our products effectively and will be qualified to provide timely and cost-effective customer support and services. In addition, our agreements with companies in our indirect channels do not restrict such companies from distributing competing products, and in many cases, these agreements may be terminated by either party without cause. We may not be able to successfully expand our sales through indirect channels, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. RISKS WHICH MAY AFFECT THE VALUE OF OUR SECURITIES VOLATILITY IN STOCK PRICE - THE PRICE OF OUR CLASS A COMMON SHARES ON THE OTC BULLETIN BOARD MAY BE VOLATILE AND COULD FLUCTUATE SUBSTANTIALLY. RISK: Our Class A Common Shares are currently listed on the OTC Bulletin Board (the "OTC-BB") under the symbol SNDTF.OB. Our share price, which has ranged from a low of US$0.31 to a high of US$0.85 during the twelve-month period ended July 31, 2008, could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. -10- FACTORS: (i) The volume of trading in our Class A Common Shares on the OTC-BB has not been substantial. As a result, even small dispositions or acquisitions of our Class A Common Shares in the public market could cause the market price to fall or increase substantially. (ii) Our share price could also be subject to wide fluctuations in response to broad market and industry factors, actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results, volatile economic conditions, new products offered by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and other events or factors that may be beyond our control. IMPACT: When the market price of a company's stock drops significantly, shareholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against that company. A lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert management's attention from our business. SALES OF SHARES - FUTURE SALES OF OUR COMMON SHARES IN THE PUBLIC MARKET COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR SHARE PRICE. RISK: We are authorized to issue an unlimited number of Class A Common Shares, of which 14,318,189 shares are outstanding as of November 18, 2008, and we have reserved an additional 5,158,561 Class A Common Shares for future issuance. We have granted rights to purchase 963,500 Class A Common Shares to directors, officers, employees and consultants upon the exercise of options at prices ranging from US$0.69 to US$6.28 per share. In addition, we have reserved another 4,195,061 Class A Common Shares for future issuance upon exercise of all outstanding share purchase warrants and upon conversion of all outstanding convertible debentures. IMPACT: (i) The issuance of these authorized or reserved shares could substantially dilute the equity interest of our existing shareholders and could result in a significant decrease to the market price of our Class A Common Shares. (ii) The issuance of shares under the exercise of options could also dilute the equity interest of our existing shareholders and could result in a significant decrease to the market price of our Class A Common Shares. CONCENTRATED OWNERSHIP - EXISTING SHAREHOLDERS CONTINUE TO EXERCISE EFFECTIVE CONTROL OVER US. RISK: Our senior management and directors, together with entities affiliated with those individuals, beneficially own approximately 41.28% of our Class A Common Shares. Arthur G. Ritchie, President, Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of the board of directors of SAND, beneficially owns approximately 25.13% of SAND's Class A Common Shares. The Estate of Jerome Shattner (Jerome Shattner was the late Executive Vice President of the Company), beneficially owns 7.31% of our Class A Common Shares, -11- Thomas M. O'Donnell, director of SAND, beneficially owns 5.49% of our Class A Common Shares while George Wicker, a director of SAND, beneficially owns 1.92% of our Class A Common Shares. IMPACT: These shareholders may, as a practical matter, continue to be able to control the election of a majority of the directors of SAND and the determination of many corporate actions. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of SAND. CLASS B SHARES - OUR ABILITY TO ISSUE CLASS B SHARES COULD MAKE IT MORE DIFFICULT FOR A THIRD PARTY TO ACQUIRE US TO THE DETRIMENT OF HOLDERS OF CLASS A COMMON SHARES. RISK: Our articles of incorporation provide for an unlimited number of Class B Shares which, if ever they are issued, may make it difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our shareholders. IMPACT: Our board has the authority to attach special rights, including voting or dividend rights, to the Class B Shares. However, the voting rights of a Class B Share cannot exceed those of a Class A Common Share. Class B shareholders who possess these rights could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our Company. RISKS COMMON TO THE INDUSTRY: The following risks are common to companies of the same profile as SAND and in the similar industry as the one that SAND operates in. TECHNOLOGY RISKS ADOPTION RISK - WE DEPEND ON ENTERPRISES TO ADOPT ENTERPRISE-WIDE IMPLEMENTATION OF BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE. RISK: We are focusing our selling efforts increasingly on larger, enterprise-wide implementations of our SAND/DNA Product Suite and we expect such sales to constitute an increasing portion of any future revenue growth. To date, our selling efforts have resulted in limited enterprise-wide implementations of our SAND/DNA Product Suite. IMPACT: While we have devoted resources to promoting market awareness of our products and the needs our products address (including training our sales personnel and demonstrating our products at industry conferences and trade shows), we cannot assure you that these efforts will be sufficient to build market awareness of the need for the enterprise-wide implementations for business intelligence or acceptance of our products. Failure of a significant market for enterprise business intelligence products to fully develop, or failure of enterprise-wide implementations of our products to achieve broad market acceptance, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. -12- RAPIDLY CHANGING TECHNOLOGY RISK - WE DEPEND ON ENTERPRISES TO ADOPT OUR TECHNOLOGY. RISK: The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and customer requirements, emerging competition, and frequent new product introductions. Our products incorporate a number of advanced technologies, including a proprietary data analysis engine, a distributed architecture, as well as Web access and delivery technology. We may be required to change and improve our products in response to changes in operating systems, applications, networking and connectivity software, computer and communications hardware, programming tools and computer language technology. IMPACT: (i) As a result, the life cycle of our products is difficult to estimate. We attempt to establish and maintain partner alliances with influential companies in a variety of core technology areas to help us successfully respond to changing technology, identify new product opportunities, or develop and bring new products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our failure to establish such alliances could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. (ii) We have in the past experienced delays in software development and there can be no assurance that we will not experience delays in connection with our current or future product development activities. Our failure, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. (iii) In addition, we or our competitors may announce enhancements to existing products, or new products that have the potential to supplant or provide lower cost alternatives to our existing products. The introduction of such enhancements or new products could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Furthermore, introduction by us of products with reliability, quality or compatibility problems could result in reduced orders, delays in collecting accounts receivable, and additional service costs. The failure to introduce a new product or product enhancement on a timely basis could delay or hinder market acceptance. Research and development efforts may require us to expend significant capital and other resources. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. COMPLEXITY OF PRODUCTS - OUR SOLUTIONS ARE HIGHLY TECHNICAL AND ANY UNDETECTED SOFTWARE ERRORS, FAILURES OR VIRUSES IN OUR PRODUCTS MAY BE SUBJECT TO PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS FOR SUCH DEFECTS. RISK: Despite our testing of new products and their use by current and potential customers when first introduced or when new enhancements are released, we cannot assure you that there will be no defects or errors in new products or enhancements in our commercial shipments. -13- IMPACT: (i) Although we have not experienced material adverse effects resulting from any such defects and errors to date, we cannot assure you that defects and errors will not be found in new products or enhancements, resulting in a loss of revenues, delay in market acceptance or damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. (ii) While our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure for potential claims based on errors or malfunctions of our products, these provisions may not be effective under the laws of certain jurisdictions. Although we have not experienced any product liability claims to date, the sale and support of our products entails the risk of such claims. Although we carry insurance against product liability risks, we cannot assure you that such insurance would be adequate to cover a potential claim. A product liability claim brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. PROPRIETARY RIGHTS - THERE IS LIMITED PROTECTION OF OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS. RISK: We currently rely primarily on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, patents, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. We seek to protect our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection. We currently have nine United States patents and thirty-two foreign patents. We cannot assure you that our patents will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged, or that the rights granted under our patents will provide competitive advantages to us. Others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology or design around any patent that may be owned by us. IMPACT: (i) Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and while we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software products exists, we expect software piracy to be a persistent problem. (ii) In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States and Canada. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights in North America or abroad will be adequate. We have entered into source code escrow agreements with a number of our customers and indirect channel partners requiring release of source code under certain conditions. The provision of source code escrows may increase the likelihood of misappropriation by third parties. Although we are not currently aware of any claims asserted by third parties that we infringe on their intellectual property, we expect that in the future software product developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management's attention and resources, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements which may not be available on terms acceptable to -14- us, if at all. In the event of a successful claim of product infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE USE - THERE MAY BE LIMITED SUPPORT OF THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE. RISK: We may rely upon certain software that we license from third parties, including software that may be integrated with our internally-developed software and used in our products to perform key functions. We cannot assure you that these third-party software licenses will be available to us on terms acceptable to us or indeed that our suppliers will continue to support their software or remain in business. IMPACT: Our inability to obtain or maintain any such software licenses could result in shipment delays or reductions until equivalent software could be developed, identified, licensed and integrated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. BUSINESS RISKS COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT - WE OPERATE IN A HIGHLY COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT. RISK: We compete in the highly competitive computer software industry. The market in which we operate is still developing and is intensively competitive, highly fragmented, and characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving standards. Our current and potential competitors offer a variety of solutions and generally fall within several categories: (i) vendors that offer data warehouse appliances which operate specifically with their proprietary platform such as Netezza, NCR Teradata and DATAllegro; (ii) software vendors that offer products which focus on structured data archiving such as FileTek and PBS; (iii) other companies that may in the future announce offerings of enterprise information management solutions. -15- IMPACT: (i) Our competitive position in our market is uncertain and changing due principally to the variety of current and potential competitors and the emerging nature of the market. Over the last year, we have been able to establish ourselves as complementary to many of the vendors that were seen as competitors with respect to SAND/DNA Analytics. We now have offerings that complement SAP BI, Oracle, IBM DB2 and Microsoft SQL warehouse. We expect additional competition as other established and emerging companies enter into the intelligent information management software market and new products and technologies are introduced. Increased competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced gross margins, longer sales cycles, and loss of market share. (ii) Current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, thereby increasing the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Our current or future indirect channel partners, including systems integrators and application vendors may establish cooperative relationships with our current or potential competitors and limit our ability to sell products through particular distribution channels. Such competition could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into new licensing agreements, and maintenance and support renewals for existing licensing agreements, with respect to our products. Competitive pressures could also require us to reduce the price of our products. (iii) We compete primarily on the basis of product features, lower total cost of ownership (TCO), return on investment (ROI), time to market, ease of use, product performance, product quality, user scalability, open architecture, customer support and price. While we believe we presently compete favourably with respect to each of these factors, some potential customers may be reluctant to work with us due to our stock price or our current overall financial situation. (iv) We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS - THE INTERNATIONAL NATURE OF OUR BUSINESS EXPOSES US TO FINANCIAL AND REGULATORY RISKS. RISK: Revenues earned outside North America are expected to remain significant in the future. We have sales offices in the United Kingdom and Germany. The following table summarizes the percentage of sales generated outside of North America. 2005 52% ----------------------------------------- 2006 70% ----------------------------------------- 2007 71% ----------------------------------------- 2008 66% ----------------------------------------- A key component of our strategy is our planned expansion into additional international markets. To facilitate this international expansion, we need to localize our products for the additional foreign markets. -16- IMPACT: (i) If the revenues generated by these expanded international operations do not offset the expense of establishing and maintaining these foreign operations, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. To date, we have only limited experience in developing localized versions of our products and marketing and distributing our products internationally. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully localize, market, sell and deliver our products in these markets. (ii) There are also additional risks in doing business on an international level, such as increased difficulty in controlling operating expenses, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, longer payment cycles, problems in collecting accounts receivable, political instability, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, seasonal reductions in business activity, and potentially adverse tax consequences. These risks could adversely impact the success of our international operations. We cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international operations and, consequently, on our business, operating results and financial condition. KEY PERSONNEL - WE DEPEND ON KEY PERSONNEL. RISK: Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our research and development and sales and marketing teams, as well as our management, some of whom would be difficult to replace. IMPACT: (i) We believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing, and finance personnel. Competition for qualified personnel remains strong, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. (ii) We have in the past experienced difficulties in hiring highly qualified sales and engineering personnel. The loss of the services of any of our other key personnel, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in either hiring required personnel or the rate at which new people become productive, particularly sales personnel and engineers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. GLOBAL FINANCIAL SYSTEM - PRESSURES IN THE GLOBAL FINANCIAL SYSTEM MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCES AND OPERATIONS IN WAYS THAT MAY BE HARD TO PREDICT OR TO DEFEND AGAINST RISK: Recent events have demonstrated that business and industries throughout the world are intertwined to a degree that we do not always realize. Thus, events seemingly unrelated to us or to our industry may adversely affect us over the course of time. For example, rapid changes to the foreign currency exchange regime may adversely affect our financial results. Credit contraction in financial markets may hurt our ability -17- to access credit in time of need. A reduction in credit, combined with reduced economic activity, may adversely affect businesses and industries that collectively constitute a significant portion of our customer base. As a result, these customers may need to reduce their purchases of our products or services, or we may experience greater difficulty in receiving payment for the products or services that these customers purchase from us. IMPACT: Any of these events, or any other events caused by turmoil in world financial markets, may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial conditions. 