Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth in this Form 10-K the issues and risks described below should be considered carefully in evaluating our outlook and future. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. In that case, the trading price of our Common Stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Axion has generated limited operating revenues. If we are unable to commercially develop and sell our structural plastic products, we will not be able to generate profits and we may be forced to curtail operations. As of the date hereof, Axion has generated limited revenues. As a result, we have limited operating revenue and we anticipate that, for at least the near future, we will operate at a loss. Our ultimate success will depend on our ability to commercially develop and sell our structural plastic products. If we are unable to commercially develop and sell our structural plastic products, we will not be able to generate profits and we may be forced to curtail operations. We are dependent on our ability to raise capital from external funding sources. If we are unable to continue to obtain necessary capital from outside sources, we will be forced to reduce or curtail operations. We have not generated any cash flow from operations and we will not be cash flow positive for some time. We have limited financial resources. As a result we may need to obtain additional capital from outside sources to continue operations and commercialize our business plan. We cannot assure that adequate additional funding will be available, especially given the current financial turmoil. If we are unable to continue to obtain needed capital from outside sources, we will be forced to reduce or curtail our operations. 5 Our ability to execute our business plan depends upon our ability to obtain financing through · bank or other debt financing, · equity financing, · strategic relationships and/or · other means. Our independent auditors have expressed that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent auditors issued an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern on our financial statements for fiscal year 2009, based on the significant operating losses and a lack of external financing. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that resulted from the outcome of this uncertainty. Our inability to continue as a going concern would require a restatement of assets and liabilities on a liquidation basis, which would differ materially and adversely from the going concern basis on which our consolidated financial statements have been prepared. Our products are new and, for the most part, have limited acceptance in the marketplace. If our products do not receive market acceptance, our ability to execute our business plan most likely will be adversely affected. Although earlier versions of our structural composite railroad crossties, I-beams and bridge decking were sold by Polywood over four years ago, only a limited amount of our other products, including our fire retardant composite railroad crossties, have been sold and are new and untested in the marketplace. Potential customers are often resistant to trying new untested products. If our products do not receive market acceptance, our ability to commercialize our business plan most likely will be adversely affected. Our business will be highly reliant on third party manufacturers. If one or more manufacturers that we engage do not meet our manufacturing requirements, our ability to manufacture and sell our products will be materially impaired. We plan on relying on third parties to manufacture our products and have entered into agreements with two third parties to manufacture our products. Consequently, we are dependent on third party outsourcing for the manufacture of our products. Our business is dependent upon our retention of manufacturers and the development and deployment by third parties of their manufacturing abilities. There can be no assurance that we will obtain the requisite manufacturers or, once retained, that these manufacturers will be able to meet our manufacturing needs in a satisfactory and timely manner, or that we can obtain additional manufacturers when and if needed. Although we believe there are a number of potential manufacturers available, if we are unable to retain manufacturers quickly or cost effectively, our ability to manufacture and sell our products will be materially impaired. Our reliance on third party manufacturers involves a number of additional risks, including the absence of guaranteed capacity and reduced control over the manufacturing process, delivery schedules, production yields and costs, and early termination of, or failure to renew, contractual arrangements. Although we believe that these manufacturers will have an economic incentive to perform such manufacturing for us, the amount and timing of resources to be devoted to these activities is not within our control, and there can be no assurance that manufacturing problems will not occur in the future. A significant price increase, an interruption in supply from one or more of such manufacturers, or the inability to obtain additional manufacturers when and if needed, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 6 If we are unable to develop substantial sales and marketing capabilities, we most likely will not be able to generate adequate sales. Initially, sales and marketing will be conducted by our senior management team, who, through its prior activities, has background and connections in our industry, and a limited number of internal sales and marketing staff. Eventually, with incremental funding, we plan on hiring additional engineers, sales and marketing staff and implementing a detailed marketing program. However, there can be no assurance that we will develop a sales and marketing force or that our sales and marketing efforts will be successful. Our ability to effect and sustain our business plan and generate profitable operations most likely will be materially adversely affected if we are unable to purchase raw materials of acceptable quality or cost. We believe that the raw materials that we will need to manufacture our products are available from multiple sources at relatively stable prices, except for recycled plastic, which has cyclical variation in supply, quality and cost. Our inability to secure supplies of raw materials of acceptable quality and costs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to effect and sustain our business plan and generate profitable operations. Because our competitors may have greater financial, marketing and research and development resources, we may not be able to successfully compete in our industry. We compete with traditional construction material suppliers and at least one company, North American Technology Group, which offers a polymer composite product that competes in the railroad tie market. Most of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial and marketing resources and capabilities. These companies and others may independently develop technology for the production of structural plastic products similar or superior to our technology, which may result in our product becoming less competitive or obsolete. Competition from other companies, and possibly from universities and research institutions, may increase as advances in technology are made. We depend upon senior management and key personnel. Any loss of their services could negatively affect our business. Our failure to retain and attract such personnel could harm our business, operations and product development efforts. Our success will depend to a significant extent, on the performance of James Kerstein, our CEO, and Marc Green, our President and Treasurer, and others who we hire. To the extent that the services of any of our key personnel become unavailable, we will be required to retain other qualified persons. We may not be able to find a suitable replacement for any such person. The loss of the services of key persons could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products require sophisticated research and development and marketing and sales. Our success will depend on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified research and development and marketing and sales personnel. Competition for personnel in all these areas is intense and we may not be able to hire sufficient personnel to achieve our goals. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business, operations and product development efforts most likely would suffer. We may not have adequate protection for the intellectual property rights on which our business depends. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our important intellectual property rights (including those licensed from Rutgers). The steps we have taken may not be adequate to deter misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information or to enable us to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. We and/or Rutgers have obtained and continue to seek patents with respect to newly developed technologies. We also rely on a combination of trade secret, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights. We will enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information, and if it is necessary to disclose proprietary information to third parties for business reasons, we will require that such third parties sign a confidentiality agreement prior to any disclosure. However, these confidentiality agreements cannot guarantee there will not be disclosure or misappropriation of such proprietary information. In addition, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Intellectual property laws provide limited protection. Moreover, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection for intellectual property as the laws of the United States. Litigation may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, which may limit the development of our business. 7 If we or our manufacturers were found to be infringing any third party patents, we or they could be required to pay damages, alter our or their products or processes, obtain licenses or cease certain activities. We cannot be certain that if we or they required licenses for patents held by third parties that they would be made available on terms acceptable to us or them, if at all. Management and affiliates own enough shares to have a substantial impact on shareholder vote which may limit shareholders’ ability to influence various corporate actions. Our executive officers, directors, affiliates and entities controlled by them own approximately 15% of the outstanding Common Stock. As a result, these executive officers and directors will have a substantial impact on the vote on matters that require stockholder approval such as election of directors, approval of a corporate merger and reorganization, increasing or decreasing the number of authorized shares, adopting corporate benefit plans, affecting a stock split, amending our Articles of Incorporation or other material corporate actions. Environmental liabilities and environmental regulations may have an adverse effect on our business. Previously, we held minority and non-operating interests in oil and gas properties. The oil and gas business is subject to environmental hazards such as spills, leaks or any discharges of petroleum products and hazardous substances. Although no claims have been made to date and we no longer have any such interests, potential environmental liability may not be extinguished with regard to a holder, such as us, of oil and gas interests during the period in which the interests were held. Accordingly, these environmental hazards could expose us to material liabilities for property damage, personal injuries and/or environmental harms, including the costs of investigating and rectifying contaminated properties. We have outstanding options, warrants and convertible debentures, and we are able to issue “blank check” preferred stock, that could be issued resulting in the dilution of Common Stock ownership. As of September 30, 2009, we had outstanding options, warrants and convertible debentures that, when exercised and converted, could result in the issuance of up to 7,026,366 additional shares of common stock. In addition, our Articles of Incorporation allow the board of directors to issue up to 2,500,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights, privileges and preferences of those shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders. We currently have no preferred stock outstanding. To the extent that outstanding options, warrants and convertible debentures or similar instruments or convertible preferred stock issued in the future are exercised or converted, these shares will represent a dilution to the existing shareholders. The preferred stock could hold dividend priority and a liquidation preference over shares of our Common Stock. Thus, the rights of the holders of Common Stock are and will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that we may issue in the future. Any such issuance could be used to discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal by a third party. Future sales of our Common Stock may cause stock price to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our Common Stock to decline. In addition, the sale of our Common Stock could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common or preferred stock. 8 Our stock price is highly volatile and the purchase or sale of relatively few shares can disproportionately influence the share price. The trading price and volume of our Common Stock has been and may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations in response to: · our ability to execute our business plan; · actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results; · the success of our business and operating strategy; and · the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies. The trading price of our Common Stock may vary without regard to our operating performance. Historically, we have been a thinly traded stock, therefore relatively few shares traded can disproportionately influence share price. We have limited operating history with regard to our new business and, as a result, there is a limited amount of information about us on which to make an investment decision. We commenced operations in November 2007 and have recognized limited revenues to date. Accordingly, there is very little operating history upon which to judge our current operations or financial results. Our Common Stock is deemed to be a "penny stock" and trading of our shares is subject to special requirements that could impede our stockholders' ability to resell their shares. Our shares are subject to the Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 which may potentially decrease your ability to easily transfer our shares. Broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in "penny stocks" are regulated. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. In addition, the penny stock rules generally require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock, the broker-dealer make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. Material weaknesses in our disclosure controls and procedures or our failure to remediate such material weaknesses could result in a material misstatement in our financial statements not being prevented or detected and could affect investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements, as well as our stock price. We have identified material weaknesses in our disclosure controls and procedures, including a lack of sufficient internal accounting resources, formal procedures and segregation of duties necessary to ensure that adequate review of our financial statements and notes thereto is performed, and have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as of September 30, 2009. These material weaknesses and our remediation plans are described further in Item 9A(T). "Controls and Procedures" of this report. Material weaknesses in our disclosure controls and procedures could result in material misstatements in our financial statements not being prevented or detected. We may experience difficulties or delays in completing remediation or may not be able to successfully remediate material weaknesses at all. Any material weakness or unsuccessful remediation could affect our ability to file periodic reports on a timely basis and investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and have an adverse effect on our stock price and our ability to raise additional funds. 9 Because the risk factors referred to above could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us, you should not place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. Further, any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement or statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict which will arise. In addition, we cannot assess the impact of each factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 