ITEM 1A. Risk Factors A wide range of factors could materially affect our performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations and the financial results of these operations elsewhere in this report, the following factors, among others, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial position: •The strength of the retail economy in the United States. Our business is subject to economic conditions in its major markets, including recession, inflation, deflation, general weakness in retail, industrial, and housing markets. In particular, a significant portion of our products are tied to new residential construction. The strength of such market depends on new housing starts which are a function of many factors beyond our control, including interest rates, employment levels, availability of credit and consumer confidence. New housing starts declined in 2006 and 2007 and the pace may continue at the lower levels or decline further. Such economic conditions could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. 5 •Our ability to maintain mutually beneficial relationships with key customers. We have several key customers, including two customers that, in the aggregate, constituted approximately 28% of our consolidated revenues for 2007. We have been informed that we will be phased out as a vendor for one of these customers which is likely to occur sometime during the second quarter of 2008. Further loss of significant customers or a material negative change in our relationships with our significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position. •Adverse changes in currency exchange rates or raw material commodity prices. A majority of our products are manufactured outside the United States, of which a significant amount is purchased in the local currency. As a result, we are exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the United States dollar which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. We believe our most significant foreign currency exposures are the Japanese yen, the Taiwan dollar ("TWD") and the Chinese Renminbi ("RMB"). We purchase approximately $51 million of products from China and Taiwan. These purchases are made in U.S. dollars. However, if either or both the TWD or RMB, were to strengthen materially in relation to the U.S. dollar, there could be an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position. We are also subject to currency risk with respect to the yen, however we generally purchase yen forward to mitigate the exposure. •Impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill. The inability of certain of our subsidiaries to generate future cash flows sufficient to support the recorded amounts of goodwill, other intangible assets and other long-lived assets related to those subsidiaries could result in future impairment charges. •Unforeseen interruptions in the manufacturing ability of certain foreign suppliers. Our foreign suppliers may encounter interruption in their ability to continue to provide us with products on a short-term or long-term basis. Although we believe that there are redundant sources available and maintain multiple sources for certain of our products, there may be costs and delays associated with securing such sources and there can be no assurance that such sources would provide the same quality of product at similar prices. •Unforeseen inventory adjustments or changes in purchasing patterns. We make purchasing decisions based upon a number of factors including an assessment of market needs and preferences, manufacturing lead times and cash flow considerations. To the extent that our assumptions result in inventory levels being too high or too low, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position. •Market acceptance of new products. There can be no assurance that the market continues its acceptance of the new products we introduced in recent years or will accept new products scheduled for introduction in 2008. There can also be no assurance that the level of sales generated from these new products relative to our expectations will materialize, based on existing investments in productive capacity and commitments by us to fund advertising and product promotions in connection with the introduction of these new products. •Increased competition. The domestic markets in which we sell our products are highly competitive on the basis of price, quality, availability, post-sale service and brand-name awareness. A number of competing companies are well-established manufacturers that compete on a global basis. •Price reductions. Price reductions taken by us in response to customer and competitive pressures, as well as price reductions or promotional actions taken in order to drive demand, may not result in anticipated sales necessary to offset the associated costs. 6 •Interest rates. Interest rate fluctuations and other capital market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position. •Litigation. The effects of litigation and product liability exposures, as well as other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and public announcements could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position. Further, while we maintain insurance policies to protect against most potential exposures, events may arise against which we may not be adequately insured. (See "Item 3—Legal Proceedings".) •Substantial debt and debt service requirements. The amount of our debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our ability to fund future capital expenditures, working capital and other general corporate requirements; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest and principal payments on our debt; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with competitors that have less debt; and limit our ability to borrow additional funds, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity. •Compliance with financial covenants. Under the terms of our credit agreement, we are required to adhere to certain financial covenants. At December 31, 2007 we were not in compliance with one of the financial covenants; however, the banks waived compliance with such financial covenant. We also anticipate that we may not be in compliance with a financial covenant during 2008. If we are not able to secure a waiver or an amendment to the credit agreement or we are not in compliance with any financial covenant at any time in the future and such non-compliance is not waived, our access to funds may be adversely affected, debt may become due immediately, and/or certain of our assets securing our debt could be foreclosed. •Retention of key personnel. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position. •Acquisition of businesses. Part of our business strategy is to opportunistically acquire complementary businesses and dispose of non-complementary businesses. If we fail to develop and integrate any acquired business or dispose of any businesses effectively, our earnings may be adversely affected. In addition, our management team will need to devote substantial time and attention to the acquisition and integration of the acquired businesses, which could distract them from their other duties and responsibilities. •Regulatory environment. We cannot anticipate the impact of changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements, including tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations, and environmental laws, in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions. •Unforeseen events. We cannot anticipate the impact of unforeseen events, including war or terrorist activities, on economic conditions and consumer confidence on our business. The risk factors described above are not intended to be all-inclusive. There can be no assurance that we have correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting our business or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely impact us. Should any risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position. 7 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 