ITEM 1A. Risk Factors A wide range of factors could materially affect our performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations and the financial results of these operations elsewhere in this report, the following factors, among others, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial position: • Substantial debt and debt service requirements; The amount of our debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our ability to fund future capital expenditures, working capital and other general corporate requirements; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest and principal payments on our debt; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with competitors that have less debt; and limit our ability to borrow additional funds, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity. • Compliance with financial covenants. Under the terms of our credit agreement that we entered into in October 2010, we are required to adhere to certain financial covenants. Although we were in compliance with our financial covenants as of December 31, 2010, in certain prior periods, we were not in compliance with certain financial covenants under our prior credit facility. If we are not in compliance with any financial covenant at any time in the future and such non-compliance is not waived, our access to funds may be adversely affected, debt may become due immediately, and/or certain of our assets securing our debt could be foreclosed. • Significant volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets. Volatility in the global capital and credit markets since early 2008 has resulted in a tightening of business credit and liquidity, a contraction of consumer credit, business failures, increased unemployment and declines in consumer confidence and spending. If global economic and financial market conditions deteriorate or remain weak for an extended period of time, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In particular, lower consumer spending may result in reduced demand and orders for certain of our products, order cancellations, lower revenues, increased inventories, and lower gross margins. Further, if our customers experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase our products, this could result in further reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, inability of customers to timely meet their payment obligations to us, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense; and a severe financial difficulty experienced by our customers may cause them to become insolvent or cease business operations. • The strength of the retail economy in the United States. Our business is subject to economic conditions in major markets, including recession, inflation, deflation, general weakness in retail, industrial, and housing markets. The strength of such markets are a function of many factors beyond our control, including interest rates, employment levels, availability of credit and consumer confidence. Such economic conditions have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. 4 • Supply chain disruptions. Any difficulty or inability on the part of manufacturers of our products or other participants in our supply chain in obtaining sufficient financing to purchase raw materials or to finance general working capital needs may result in delays or non-delivery of shipments of our products. • Our ability to maintain mutually beneficial relationships with key customers. We have several key customers, one of which constituted approximately 28% of our consolidated revenues for 2010. Loss of key customers or a material negative change in our relationships with our key customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position. • Adverse changes in currency exchange rates or raw material commodity prices. A majority of our products are manufactured outside the United States, of which a significant amount is purchased in the local currency. As a result, we are exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the United States dollar which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. We believe our most significant foreign currency exposures are the Taiwan dollar (“TWD”) and the Chinese Renminbi (“RMB”). Purchases from Chinese sources are made in U.S. dollars. However, if the Chinese currency, the Renminbi (“RMB”), were to be revalued against the dollar, there could be a significant negative impact on the cost of our products. • Impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill. The inability of certain of our subsidiaries to generate future cash flows sufficient to support the recorded amounts of goodwill, other intangible assets and other long-lived assets related to those subsidiaries could result in future impairment charges. • Unforeseen interruptions in the manufacturing ability of certain foreign suppliers. Our foreign suppliers may encounter interruption in their ability to continue to provide us with products on a short-term or long-term basis. Although we believe that there are redundant sources available and maintain multiple sources for certain of our products, there may be costs and delays associated with securing such sources and there can be no assurance that such sources would provide the same quality of product at similar prices. • Unforeseen inventory adjustments or changes in purchasing patterns. We make purchasing decisions based upon a number of factors including an assessment of market needs and preferences, manufacturing lead times and cash flow considerations. To the extent that our assumptions result in inventory levels being too high or too low, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position. • Market acceptance of new products. There can be no assurance that the market continues its acceptance of the new products we introduced in recent years or will accept new products scheduled for introduction in 2011. There can also be no assurance that the level of sales generated from these new products relative to our expectations will materialize, based on existing investments in productive capacity and commitments by us to fund advertising and product promotions in connection with the introduction of these new products. • Increased competition. The domestic markets in which we sell our products are highly competitive on the basis of price, quality, availability, post-sale service and brand-name awareness. A number of competing companies are well-established manufacturers that compete on a global basis. • Price reductions. Price reductions taken by us in response to customer and competitive pressures, as well as price reductions or promotional actions taken in order to drive demand, may not result in anticipated sales necessary to offset the associated costs. • Interest rates. Interest rate fluctuations and other capital market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position. • Litigation. The effects of litigation and product liability exposures, as well as other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and public announcements could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position. Further, while we maintain insurance policies to protect against most potential exposures, events may arise against which we may not be adequately insured. • Retention of key personnel. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position. • Acquisition of businesses. Part of our business strategy is to opportunistically acquire complementary businesses and dispose of non-complementary businesses. If we fail to develop and integrate any acquired business or dispose of any businesses effectively, our earnings may be adversely affected. In addition, our management team will need to devote substantial time and attention to the acquisition and integration of the acquired businesses, which could distract them from their other duties and responsibilities. 5 • Regulatory environment. We cannot anticipate the impact of changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements, including tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations, and environmental laws, in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions. • Our financial position, cash flow or results may be adversely affected by the threat of terrorism and related political instability and economic uncertainty. The threat of potential terrorist attacks on the United States and throughout the world and political instability has created an atmosphere of economic uncertainty in the United States and in foreign markets. Our results may be impacted by the macroeconomic effects of those events. Also, a disruption in our supply chain as a result of terrorist attacks or the threat thereof may significantly affect our business and its prospects. In addition, such events may also result in heightened domestic security and higher costs for importing and exporting shipments of components and finished goods. Any of these occurrences may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flow or results in any reporting period. • We may in the future be required to include the financial position of our WMC subsidiary in our consolidated financial statements. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has issued accounting guidance regarding variable interest entities (“VIEs”) that affects the accounting treatment of one of our subsidiaries, WMC. To ascertain if we are required to consolidate this subsidiary, we determine whether it is a VIE and if we are the primary beneficiary in accordance with the accounting guidance, as discussed further in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Changes in the financial accounting guidance, or changes in circumstances at this subsidiary, could lead us to determine that we have to consolidate the financial position of such entity in the future. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial position. • Liabilities of WMC. WMC has liabilities on its balance sheet that are not reflected in our consolidated financial statements. While we believe that neither P&F nor any of its subsidiaries other than WMC are legally responsible for any such liabilities, there can be no assurance that one or more creditors of WMC will not institute legal action against P&F or any of its subsidiaries other than WMC, which could result in a material adverse impact on our financial position. • Unforeseen events. We cannot anticipate the impact of unforeseen events, including but not limited to war and pandemic disease, on economic conditions and consumer confidence in our business. The risk factors described above are not intended to be all-inclusive. There can be no assurance that we have correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting our business or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely impact us. Should any risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 