ITEM 1A. Risk Factors A wide range of factors could materially affect our performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations and the financial results of these operations elsewhere in this report, the following factors, among others, could adversely affect our operations: · The strength of the retail economy in the United States. Our business is subject to economic conditions in its major markets, including recession, inflation, deflation, general weakness in retail, industrial, and housing markets. · Our ability to maintain mutually beneficial relationships with key customers. We have several significant customers, including two customers that, in the aggregate, constituted approximately 32% of our consolidated revenues for 2005. The loss of either of these significant customers or a material negative change in our relationships with these significant customers could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. · Adverse changes in currency exchange rates or raw material commodity prices. A significant amount of our products are manufactured outside the United States and purchased in the local currency. As a result, we are exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the United States dollar. We believe our most significant foreign currency exposures are the Japanese yen and the New Taiwan dollar. Additionally, we purchase approximately $25 million of products from China. These purchases are made in U.S. dollars. However, if the Chinese currency, the Renminbi (RMB), were to be revalued against the dollar, there could be a significant negative impact on the cost of our products. · Unforeseen inventory adjustments or changes in purchasing patterns by major customers and the resultant impact on manufacturing volumes and inventory levels. We make purchasing decisions based upon a number of factors including an assessment of market needs and preferences, manufacturing lead times and cash flow considerations. To the extent that our assumptions result in inventory levels being too high or too low, there could be a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. · Unforeseen interruptions in the manufacturing ability of certain foreign suppliers. Although we believe that there are redundant sources available and maintain multiple sources for certain of our products, there may be costs and delays associated with securing such sources and there can be no assurance that such sources would provide the same quality of product at similar prices. · Market acceptance of new products. There can be no assurance that the market continues its acceptance of the new products we introduced in 2005 or will accept new products scheduled for introduction in 2006. Nor can there be assurance that the level of sales generated from these new products relative to our expectations, based on existing investments in productive capacity and commitments by us to fund advertising and product promotions in connection with the introduction of these new products, will materialize. · Impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill. The inability of certain of our subsidiaries to generate future cash flows sufficient to support the recorded amounts of goodwill, other intangible assets and other long-lived assets related to those subsidiaries could result in future impairment charges. · Increased competition. The domestic markets in which we sell our products are highly competitive on the basis of price, quality, availability, post-sale service and brand-name awareness. A number of competing companies are well-established manufacturers that compete on a global basis. 5 · Price reductions. Price reductions taken by us in response to customer and competitive pressures, as well as price reductions or promotional actions taken in order to drive demand, may not result in anticipated sales necessary to offset the associated costs. · Interest rates. Interest rate fluctuations and other capital market conditions could impact our financial position and results of operations. · Litigation. The effects of litigation and product liability exposures, as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission could impact our financial position and results of operations. (See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings”.) · Regulatory environment. We cannot anticipate the impact of changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements, including tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations, and environmental laws, in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions. · Unforeseen events. We cannot anticipate the impact of unforeseen events, including war or terrorist activities, on economic conditions and consumer confidence on our business. This listing is not intended to be all-inclusive. There can be no assurance that we have correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting our business or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely impact us. Should any risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our financial position and results of operations. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 