ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to a number of risks. Some of these risks are endemic to the high-technology industry and are the same or similar to those disclosed in our previous SEC filings, and some new risks may arise in the future. You should carefully consider all of these risks and the other information in this Annual Report before investing in us. The fact that certain risks are endemic to the high-technology industry does not lessen the significance of these risks. As a result of these risks, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, and stockholders might lose some or all of their investment. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO GENERATE REVENUE ABOVE CURRENT LEVELS FROM THE SALE OF OUR COMMUNICATIONS PRODUCTS, OR OUR REVENUE FROM THESE PRODUCTS DECLINES, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS WILL BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY IMPACTED. We continue to focus a significant portion of our research and sales resources on the communications market with the expectation that the communications sector will grow over the long term. Given our dependence on the communications market to support revenue growth, we must continue to generate additional sales from this market by successfully marketing the existing product portfolio, introducing new products and securing design wins which are released into production or by gaining market share. If we are unable to generate increased revenue from our communications products or our revenue from these products declines, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be materially and adversely impacted. THE UNCERTAINTY IN THE U.S. AND GLOBAL ECONOMIES, AS WELL AS THE COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MARKET, MAY CONTINUE TO MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Periodic declines or fluctuations in corporate profits, lower capital equipment spending, the impact of conflicts throughout the world, terrorist acts, natural disasters, the outbreak of communicable diseases such as the 15 Table of Contents Avian Flu and other geopolitical factors have had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on the U.S. and global economies. Our revenue and profitability have generally followed the modest recovery of the communications equipment industry. This modest recovery has affected carrier capital equipment spending which in turn has affected the demand for our customers’ products, thus affecting our revenues and profitability. Communications service providers and equipment manufacturers continue to experience consolidation in their industries. Although there currently appears to be positive signs for growth, further delay or reduction in anticipated communications equipment spending levels may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are unable to predict the timing, strength or duration of the communications market recovery or effects of equipment manufacturer consolidation. If the sector does not continue to recover measurably, or declines, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted. IF WE FAIL TO DEVELOP AND INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS IN OUR CORE OR NEW MARKETS THAT MEET EVOLVING MARKET NEEDS, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY IMPACTED. The markets for our products are characterized by: • changing technologies; • evolving and competing industry standards; • changing customer requirements; • increasing costs of product development; • long design-to-production cycles; • competitive solutions; • frequent product introductions and enhancements; • increasing functional integration; • increasing price pressure; • moderate to slow growth; • capital equipment spending levels and/or deployment; and/or • changing competitive landscape (consolidation, financial conditions). Our success depends in part on the successful development of new products for our core markets. We must: (i) be able to anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards; (ii) be able to accurately define and develop, on a timely basis, new products; (iii) be able to gain access to and use technologies in a cost-effective manner; (iv) continue to expand our technical and design expertise; (v) be able to timely introduce and cost-effectively have manufactured new products; (vi) be able to differentiate our products from our competitors’ offerings; and (vii) gain customer acceptance of our products. In addition, we must continue to have our products designed into our customers’ future products and maintain close working relationships with key customers to develop new products that meet their evolving needs. Moreover, we must be able to respond to shifts in market demands, the trend towards increasing functional integration and other changes in a rapid and cost-effective manner. Migration from older products to newer products may result in volatility of earnings during periods of transition of the products. Products for communications applications are based on continually evolving industry standards and new technologies. Our ability to compete will depend in part on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these industry standards. The emergence of new standards could render our products incompatible with systems 16 Table of Contents developed by major communications equipment manufacturers. As a result, we could be required to invest significant time, effort and expenses to develop and qualify new products to ensure compliance with industry standards. The process of developing and supporting new products is complex, expensive and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict and understand our customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends, our business may be harmed. We cannot assure that we will be able to identify new product opportunities successfully, develop and bring to market new products, achieve design wins, ensure when and which design wins actually get released to production, or respond effectively to technological changes or product announcements by our competitors. In addition, we may not be successful in developing or using new technologies or may incorrectly anticipate market demand and develop products that achieve little or no market acceptance. Our pursuit of necessary technological advances may require substantial time and expense and may ultimately prove unsuccessful. Failure in any of these areas may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO CONVERT A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR DESIGN WINS INTO ACTUAL REVENUE, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY IMPACTED. We have secured a significant number of design wins for new and existing products. Such design wins are necessary for revenue growth. However, many of our design wins may never generate revenues if their end-customer projects are unsuccessful in the market place or the end-customer terminates the project, which may occur for a variety of reasons. Additionally, some of our design wins are with privately-held, early-stage companies that may fail to bring their product to market. If design wins do generate revenue, the time lag between the design win and meaningful revenue may be in excess of eighteen months. If we fail to convert a significant portion of our design wins into substantial revenue, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY BECAUSE OF A NUMBER OF FACTORS, MANY OF WHICH ARE BEYOND OUR CONTROL. Our financial results may fluctuate significantly. Some of the factors that affect our financial results, many of which are difficult or impossible to control or predict, are: • our difficulty predicting revenues and ordering the correct mix of products from suppliers due to limited visibility provided by customers and channel partners coupled with a high number of orders placed for products to be shipped in the same quarter; • the reduction, rescheduling, cancellation or timing of orders by our customers and channel partners due to, among others, the following factors; • management of customer, subcontractor and/or channel inventory; • dependency on a single product with a single customer; • volatility of demand for equipment sold by our large customers, which in turn, introduces demand volatility for our products; • temporary disruption in customer demand as customers change or modify their complex subcontract manufacturing supply chain; • the inability of our customers to obtain components from their other suppliers; and • disruption in the sales or distribution channels; • changes in sales and implementation cycles for our products; 17 Table of Contents • the ability of our suppliers, customers and communications service providers to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures; • changes in the mix of products that our customers purchase; • risks associated with entering new markets, such as increased competition, should we decide to do so; • the announcement or introduction of products by our competitors; • loss of market share by our customers; • competitive pressures on selling prices or product availability; • pressures on selling prices overseas due to foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • erosion of average selling prices coupled with the inability to sell newer products with higher average selling prices, resulting in lower overall revenue and margins; • market and/or customer acceptance of our products; • consolidation among our competitors, our customers and/or our customers’ customers; • changes in our customers’ end user concentration or requirements; • loss of one or more major customers; • significant changes in ordering pattern by major customers; • our or our channel partners’ ability to maintain adequate inventory levels; • the availability and cost of materials and services, including foundry, assembly and test capacity, needed by us from our foundries and suppliers; • discontinuance of wafer fabrication or packaging technologies by our suppliers; • if wafer fabrications or packaging and test suppliers discontinue or experience extended disruption of supply, we may incur increased costs to obtain alternative suppliers or investment in inventory to meet continuity of supply obligations to customers; • temporary disruptions in our or our customers’ supply chain due to natural disaster, fire, outbreak of communicable diseases such as the Avian Flu, or labor disputes; • fluctuations in the manufacturing output, yield capabilities, and capacity of our suppliers; • fluctuation in suppliers’ capacity due to reorganization, relocation or shift in business focus; • problems, costs, or delays that we may face in shifting our products to smaller geometry process technologies and in achieving higher levels of design and device integration; • our ability to successfully introduce and transfer into production new products and/or integrate new technologies; • increase in manufacturing costs; • increase in mask tooling costs associated with advanced technologies; • the amount and timing of our investment in research and development; • costs and business disruptions associated with shareholder or regulatory issues; • the timing and amount of employer payroll tax to be paid on our employees’ gains on stock options exercised; • increasing costs and time associated with compliance with accounting rules or other regulatory requirements; 18 Table of Contents • changes in accounting or other regulatory rules, such as the future requirement to record expenses for employee stock option grants; • fluctuations in interest rates and/or market values of our marketable securities; • litigation costs associated with the defense of suits brought or complaints made against us; and/or • legislators’ desire or ability to renew favorable tax legislation in a timely manner, which may subject our tax provision to volatility. As a consequence, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict and prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in the future. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE HAVE MADE AND MAY IN THE FUTURE MAKE ACQUISITIONS AND SIGNIFICANT STRATEGIC EQUITY INVESTMENTS, WHICH MAY INVOLVE A NUMBER OF RISKS. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ADDRESS THESE RISKS SUCCESSFULLY, SUCH ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENTS COULD HAVE A MATERIALLY ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We have undertaken a number of strategic acquisitions and investments in the past and may do so from time to time in the future. The risks involved with these acquisitions and investments include, among others: • the possibility that we may not receive a favorable return on our investment or incur losses from our investment, or the original investment may become impaired; • failure to satisfy the strategic objectives; • our assumption of known or unknown liabilities or other unanticipated events or circumstances; and/or • the diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business. Additional risks involved with acquisitions include, among others: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company or its assets; • difficulty in supporting acquired products or technologies; • difficulties or delays in the transfer of manufacturing flows and supply chains of products of acquired businesses; • failure to retain key personnel; • unexpected capital equipment outlays and related expenses; • difficulties in entering markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets may have stronger market positions; • insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; • under-performance problems with an acquired company; • issuance of common stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • recording of goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to periodic impairment testing and potential impairment charges against our future earnings; • incurring amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; • the opportunity cost associated with committing capital in such investments; 19 Table of Contents • incurring large and immediate write-offs; and/or • becoming subject to litigation. Risks involved with strategic equity investments include, among others: • the possibility of litigation resulting from these types of investments; • the possibility that we may not receive a favorable return on our investments or incur losses from these investments, or the original investment may become impaired; • a change or poorly executed strategic plan; and/or • the opportunity cost associated with committing capital in such investments. We cannot assure that we will be able to address these risks successfully without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems. Any delays or other such operations or financial problems could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE MAY NOT INTEGRATE ACQUIRED TECHNOLOGY SUCCESSFULLY. We have made and may in the future acquire intellectual property to accelerate our time to market for new products. Acquisitions of intellectual property may involve risks such as successful technical integration into existing products, market acceptance of new products, and achievement of planned return on investment. The potential failure of product introduction utilizing acquired intellectual property could lead to an impairment of capitalized intellectual property acquisition costs. COMPETITION IN THE MARKETS IN WHICH WE PARTICIPATE, OR MAY PARTICIPATE, MAY MAKE IT MORE DIFFICULT FOR US TO BE SUCCESSFUL. We compete against an established group of semiconductor companies that focus on similar markets. These competitors include Applied Micro Circuits Corporation, Integrated Device Technology Inc., Mindspeed Technologies Inc., PMC Sierra Inc., Royal Philips Electronics, Texas Instruments Incorporated, TranSwitch Corporation, Vitesse Semiconductor Corporation and Wolfson Microelectronics LTD. Additionally, we are facing competition from other established companies and start-up businesses that seek to enter the markets in which we participate. We have experienced increased competition at the design stage, where customers evaluate alternative solutions based on a number of factors, including price, performance, product features, technologies, and availability of long-term product supply and/or roadmap guarantee. Additionally, we experience, in some cases, severe pressure on pricing from some of our competitors or cost expectations from customers. Such circumstances may make some of our products unattractive due to price or performance measures. These circumstances may result in us losing design opportunities or may decrease our revenue and margins as a result of the price competition. Also, competitors from new companies in emerging countries with significant lower costs could affect selling price and gross margins. WE DEPEND ON THIRD-PARTY FOUNDRIES TO MANUFACTURE OUR INTEGRATED CIRCUITS. ANY DISRUPTION IN OR LOSS OF THE FOUNDRIES’ CAPACITY TO MANUFACTURE OUR PRODUCTS SUBJECTS US TO A NUMBER OF RISKS, INCLUDING THE POTENTIAL FOR AN INADEQUATE SUPPLY OF PRODUCTS AND HIGHER MATERIALS COSTS. THESE RISKS MAY LEAD TO DELAYED PRODUCT DELIVERY OR INCREASED COSTS, WHICH COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication facility, or a foundry. Most of our products are based on complementary metal oxide semiconductor, or CMOS, processes. Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Ltd., or Chartered, located in Singapore, manufactures the majority of the CMOS wafers from which our 20 Table of Contents products are manufactured. Chartered produces semiconductors for many other companies (many of which have greater requirements than us), and therefore we may not have access on a timely basis to sufficient capacity or certain process technologies. In addition, we are reliant on Chartered’s continued financial health and ability to continue to invest in smaller geometry manufacturing processes and foundries. Many of our new products are designed to take advantage of smaller geometry manufacturing processes. Due to the complexity and increased cost of migrating to smaller geometries, we may experience problems, which could result in design and production delays of our products. If such delays occur, our products may have delayed market acceptance or customers may select our competitors’ products during the design process. We do not have long-term wafer supply agreements with Chartered or our other foundries that would guarantee wafer or product quantities, prices, delivery or lead times. Rather, the foundries manufacture our products on a purchase order basis. We provide Chartered and our other foundries with rolling forecasts of our production requirements. However, the ability of our foundries to provide wafers is limited by the foundries’ available capacity. In addition, we cannot be certain that we will continue to do business with Chartered or our other foundries on terms as favorable as our current terms. Significant risks associated with our reliance on third party foundries include: • the lack of assured process technology and wafer supply; • financial and operating stability of the foundries; • limited control over delivery schedules; • limited manufacturing capacity of the foundries; • limited control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; and/or • potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. We could experience a substantial delay or interruption in the shipment of our products or an increase in our costs due to any of the following: • a manufacturing disruption experienced by foundries utilized by us or sudden reduction or elimination of any existing source or sources of semiconductor manufacturing materials or processes, which might include the potential closure, change of ownership, change of management or consolidation by one of our foundries; • extended time required to identify, qualify and transfer to alternative manufacturing sources for existing or new products; • failure of our suppliers to obtain the raw materials and equipment; • financial and operating stability of the foundry or any of our suppliers; • acts of terrorism or civil unrest or an unanticipated disruption due to communicable diseases, political instability, natural disasters; and/or • a sudden, sharp increase in demand for semiconductor devices, which could strain the foundries’ manufacturing resources and cause delays in manufacturing and shipment of our products. IF OUR FOUNDRIES DISCONTINUE OR LIMIT THE AVAILABILITY OF THE MANUFACTURING PROCESSES NEEDED TO MEET OUR DEMANDS OR ARE UNABLE TO PROVIDE THE TECHNOLOGIES NEEDED TO MANUFACTURE OUR PRODUCTS, WE MAY FACE PRODUCTION DELAYS, WHICH COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our wafer requirements represent a small portion of the total production of the foundries that manufacture our products. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a foundry may cease production of a wafer fabrication 21 Table of Contents process required by us. Additionally, we cannot be certain that our foundries will continue to devote resources to the production of our products or continue to advance the process design technologies on which the manufacturing of our products are based. Each of these events could increase our costs and harm our ability to deliver our products on time, or force us to terminate affected products, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. TO SECURE FOUNDRY CAPACITY, WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO ENTER INTO FINANCIAL AND OTHER ARRANGEMENTS WITH FOUNDRIES, WHICH COULD RESULT IN THE DILUTION OF OUR EARNINGS OR OTHERWISE HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS. Allocation of a foundry’s manufacturing capacity may be influenced by a foundry customer’s size, the existence of a long-term agreement with the foundry or other commitments. To address foundry capacity constraints, we and other semiconductor companies that rely on third-party foundries have utilized various arrangements, including equity investments in or loans to foundries in exchange for guaranteed production capacity, joint ventures to own and operate foundries or “take or pay” contracts that commit a company to purchase specified quantities of wafers over extended periods. While we are not currently a party to any of these arrangements, we may decide to enter into these arrangements in the future. We cannot be sure, however, that these arrangements will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Any of these arrangements could require us to commit substantial capital and, accordingly, could require us to reduce our cash holdings, incur additional debt or secure equity financing. This could result in the dilution of our earnings or the ownership of our stockholders or otherwise harm our operating results. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient foundry capacity in the future pursuant to such arrangements. OUR DEPENDENCE ON THIRD-PARTY SUBCONTRACTORS TO ASSEMBLE AND TEST OUR PRODUCTS SUBJECTS US TO A NUMBER OF RISKS, INCLUDING THE POTENTIAL FOR AN INADEQUATE SUPPLY OF PRODUCTS AND HIGHER MATERIALS COSTS. THESE RISKS MAY LEAD TO DELAYED PRODUCT DELIVERY OR INCREASED COSTS, WHICH COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We depend on independent subcontractors in Asia for all of the assembly and the majority of the testing of our products. Our reliance on these subcontractors involves the following risks: • our reduced control over manufacturing yields, production schedules and product quality; • the potential closure, change of ownership, change in business conditions or relationships, change of management or consolidation by one or more of our subcontractors; • long term financial stability of our subcontractors and their ability to invest in new capabilities and equipment; • disruption of services due to the outbreak of communicable diseases such as the Avian Flu, acts of terrorism, natural disasters, labor disputes, or civil unrest; • disruption of manufacturing or test services due to relocation of subcontractor manufacturing facilities; • failure of our subcontractors to obtain the raw materials and equipment; • entry into “take-or-pay” agreements; • difficulties in selecting, qualifying and integrating new subcontractors; • reallocation or limited manufacturing capacity of the subcontractors; • a sudden, sharp increase in demand for semiconductor devices, which could strain the subcontractor’s manufacturing resources and cause delays in manufacturing and shipment of our products; • limited warranties from the subcontractors for products assembled and tested for us; 22 Table of Contents • the possible unavailability of qualified assembly or test services; • the subcontractors may cease production on a specific package type used to assemble product required by us and the possible inability to obtain an alternate source to supply the package; • potential increases in assembly and test costs; and/or • the third party subcontractors abilities to transition to smaller package types and to new package compositions. These risks may lead to shipment delays and supply constraints of our products or increased cost for the finished products, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. OUR RELIANCE ON FOREIGN SUPPLIERS EXPOSES US TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS, ANY OF WHICH COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We use semiconductor wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors throughout Asia to manufacture a significant portion of our products. Our dependence on these subcontractors involves the following risks: • disruption of services due to political, civil, labor, and economic instability; • disruption of services due to natural disasters or outbreak of communicable diseases such as the Avian Flu; • disruption of transportation to and from Asia; • embargoes or other regulatory limitations affecting the availability of raw materials, equipment or services; • changes in tax laws, tariffs and freight rates; and/or • compliance with local or international regulatory requirements. These risks may lead to delays in product delivery or increased costs, either of which could harm our profitability and customer relationships, thereby materially and adversely impacting our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE DEPEND IN PART ON THE CONTINUED SERVICE OF OUR KEY ENGINEERING AND MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL AND OUR ABILITY TO IDENTIFY, HIRE, INCENT AND RETAIN QUALIFIED PERSONNEL. IF WE LOST KEY EMPLOYEES OR FAILED TO IDENTIFY, HIRE, INCENT AND RETAIN THESE INDIVIDUALS, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY IMPACTED. Our future success depends, in part, on the continued service of our key design engineering, technical, sales, marketing and executive personnel and our ability to identify, hire, incent, and retain other qualified personnel. In the future, we may not be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management and technical personnel necessary for the management of our business. Competition for skilled employees having specialized technical capabilities and industry-specific expertise continues to be a considerable risk inherent in the markets in which we compete. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price and the ability to offer options to as many or in amounts consistent with past practices, as a result of regulations regarding the expensing of options, may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted stock options. The failure to retain and recruit, as necessary, key design engineers, technical, sales, marketing and executive personnel could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents RECENT RULEMAKING BY THE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD WILL REQUIRE US TO EXPENSE EQUITY COMPENSATION GIVEN TO EMPLOYEES AND NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS THAT WILL SIGNIFICANTLY HARM OPERATING RESULTS. We historically have used stock options as a significant component of our employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention, and provide competitive compensation packages. Stock options are also utilized to attract and retain non-employee directors. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted changes that will require companies to record a charge to earnings for stock option grants and other equity incentives, which will have a significant impact on our results of operations. We are required to implement the standard as of April 1, 2006. By causing us to incur significantly increased compensation costs, this accounting change will reduce our reported earnings. OUR RELIANCE ON FOREIGN CUSTOMERS COULD CAUSE FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR OPERATING RESULTS, WHICH COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. International sales accounted for 51.3%, 50.9% and 53.5% of net sales for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, March 31, 2005 and March 31, 2004, respectively. International sales will likely continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues, which would subject us to the following risks: • changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs and other barriers; • timing and availability of export or import licenses; • disruption of services due to political, civil, labor, and economic instability; • disruption of services due to natural disasters; • disruptions to customer operations due to the outbreak of communicable diseases such as the Avian Flu; • difficulties in accounts receivable collections; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary and branch operations; • difficulties in managing sales channel partners; • difficulties in obtaining governmental approvals for communications and other products; • limited intellectual property protection; • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • the burden of complying with foreign laws and treaties; and/or • potentially adverse tax consequences. In addition, because sales of our products have been denominated primarily in United States dollars, increases in the value of the United States dollar could increase the relative price of our products such that they become more expensive to customers in the local currency of a particular country. Increases in the value of the United States dollar could also evoke customers to apply pricing pressures on our products. Increased international activity in the future may result in increased foreign currency denominated sales. Furthermore, because some of our customers’ purchase orders and agreements are governed by foreign laws, we may be limited in our ability, or it may be too costly for us, to enforce our rights under these agreements and to collect damages, if awarded. THE COMPLEXITY OF OUR PRODUCTS MAY LEAD TO ERRORS, DEFECTS AND BUGS, WHICH COULD SUBJECT US TO SIGNIFICANT COSTS OR DAMAGES AND ADVERSELY AFFECT MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR PRODUCTS. Although we, our customers and our suppliers rigorously test our products, nonetheless they may contain undetected errors, weaknesses, defects or bugs when first introduced or as new versions are released. If any of 24 Table of Contents our products contain production defects, reliability, quality or compatibility problems that are significant to our customers, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to continue to buy our products, which could adversely affect our ability to retain and attract new customers. In addition, these defects or bugs could interrupt or delay sales of affected products, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If defects or bugs are discovered after commencement of commercial production of a new product, we may be required to make significant expenditures of capital and other resources to resolve the problems. This could result in significant additional development costs and the diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts. We could also incur significant costs to repair or replace defective products. These costs or damages could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. IF OUR DISTRIBUTORS OR SALES REPRESENTATIVES STOP SELLING OR FAIL TO SUCCESSFULLY PROMOTE OUR PRODUCTS, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. We sell many of our products through two non-exclusive distributors and numerous sales representatives. Our non-exclusive distributors and sales representatives may carry our competitors’ products, which could adversely impact or limit the sales of our products. Additionally, they could reduce or discontinue sales of our products or may not devote the resources necessary to sell our products in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect. Moreover, we depend on the continued viability and financial resources of these distributors and sales representatives, some of which are small organizations with limited working capital. In turn, these distributors and sales representatives are subject to general economic and semiconductor industry conditions. We believe that our success will continue to depend on these distributors and sales representatives. If some or all of our distributors and sales representatives experience financial difficulties, or otherwise become unable or unwilling to promote and sell our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. BECAUSE OUR COMMUNICATIONS INTEGRATED CIRCUITS TYPICALLY HAVE LENGTHY SALES CYCLES, WE MAY EXPERIENCE SUBSTANTIAL DELAYS BETWEEN INCURRING EXPENSES RELATED TO RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AND THE GENERATION OF REVENUE DERIVED FROM THESE PRODUCTS. Due to the communications integrated circuit, or IC, equipment product development cycle, we have typically experienced at least an eighteen-month time lapse between our initial contact with a customer to realizing volume shipments. We first work with customers to achieve a design win, which may take nine months or longer. Our customers then complete the design, testing and evaluation process and begin to ramp up production, a period which typically lasts an additional nine months. The customers of communications equipment manufacturers may also require a period of time for testing and evaluation, which may cause further delays. As a result, a significant period of time may elapse between our research and development efforts and our realization of revenue, if any, from volume purchasing of our communications products by our customers. Due to length of the communications IC equipment product development cycle, the risk of project cancellation by the customer is present for an extended period of time. OUR BACKLOG MAY NOT RESULT IN FUTURE REVENUE. Due to the possibility of customer changes in delivery schedules and quantities actually purchased, cancellation of orders, distributor returns or price reductions, our backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. A reduction of the order backlog during any particular period, or the failure of our backlog to result in future revenue, could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents FIXED OPERATING EXPENSES AND OUR PRACTICE OF ORDERING MATERIALS IN ANTICIPATION OF FUTURE CUSTOMER DEMAND COULD MAKE IT DIFFICULT FOR US TO RESPOND EFFECTIVELY TO SUDDEN SWINGS IN DEMAND AND RESULT IN HIGHER THAN EXPECTED COSTS AND EXCESS INVENTORY. SUCH SUDDEN SWINGS IN DEMAND COULD THEREFORE HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short to medium term, and, therefore, we have limited ability to reduce expenses quickly and sufficiently in response to any revenue shortfall. In addition, we typically plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. From time to time, in response to anticipated long lead times to obtain inventory and materials from our outside suppliers and foundries, we may order materials in advance of anticipated customer demand. This advance ordering may result in excess inventory levels or unanticipated inventory write-downs if expected orders fail to materialize. This incremental cost could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, WHICH COULD HARM OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION. Our ability to compete is affected by our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, mask work registrations, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and non-disclosure and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite these efforts, we may be unable to protect our proprietary information. Such intellectual property rights may not be recognized or if recognized, it may not be commercially feasible to enforce. Moreover, we cannot be certain that our competitors will not independently develop technology that is substantially similar or superior to our technology. More specifically, we cannot be sure that our pending patent applications or any future applications will be approved, or that any issued patents will provide us with competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties. Nor can we be sure that, if challenged, our patents will be found to be valid or enforceable, or that the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar products or processes, duplicate our products or processes or design around any patents that may be issued to us. WE COULD BE REQUIRED TO PAY SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGES OR COULD BE SUBJECT TO VARIOUS EQUITABLE REMEDIES IF IT WERE PROVEN THAT WE INFRINGED THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF OTHERS. As a general matter, the semiconductor industry is characterized by substantial litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. If a third party were to prove that our technology infringed a third party’s intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay substantial damages for past infringement and could be required to pay license fees or royalties on future sales of our products. If we were required to pay such license fees whenever we sold our products, such fees could exceed our revenue. In addition, if it were proven that we willfully infringed a third party’s proprietary rights, we could be held liable for three times the amount of the damages that we would otherwise have to pay. Such intellectual property litigation could also require us to: • stop selling, incorporating or using our products that use the infringed intellectual property; • obtain a license to make, sell or use the relevant technology from the owner of the infringed intellectual property, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; and/or • redesign our products so as not to use the infringed intellectual property, which may not be technically or commercially feasible. Furthermore, the defense of infringement claims and lawsuits, regardless of their outcome, would likely be expensive to resolve and could require a significant portion of management’s time. In addition, rather than 26 Table of Contents litigating an infringement matter, we may determine that it is in our best interests to settle the matter. Terms of a settlement may include the payment of damages and our agreement to license technology in exchange for a license fee and ongoing royalties. These fees could be substantial. If we were required to pay damages or otherwise became subject to such equitable remedies, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. Similarly, if we were required to pay license fees to third parties based on a successful infringement claim brought against us, such fees could exceed our revenue. OUR STOCK PRICE IS VOLATILE. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly to date. In the future, the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to: • our anticipated or actual operating results; • announcements or introductions of new products by us or our competitors; • technological innovations by us or our competitors; • product delays or setbacks by us, our customers or our competitors; • potential supply disruptions; • sales channel interruptions; • concentration of sales among a small number of customers; • conditions in the communications and semiconductor markets; • the commencement and/or results of litigation; • changes in estimates of our performance by securities analysts; • decreases in the value of our investments, thereby requiring an asset impairment charge against earnings; • our repurchasing shares of our common stock; • announcements of merger or acquisition transactions; • the impact of expensing stock options; and/or • general global economic and market conditions. In the past, securities and class action litigation has been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. We may be the target of one or more of these class action suits, which could result in significant costs and divert management’s attention, thereby harming our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many high technology companies, including semiconductor companies, and that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These fluctuations may harm the market price of our common stock. EARTHQUAKES AND OTHER NATURAL DISASTERS MAY DAMAGE OUR FACILITIES OR THOSE OF OUR SUPPLIERS. Our corporate headquarters in Fremont, California is located near major earthquake faults that have experienced seismic activity. In addition, some of our customers and suppliers are located near fault lines. In the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster near our headquarters, our operations could be disrupted. Similarly, a major earthquake or other natural disaster affecting one or more of our major customers or suppliers could adversely impact the operations of those affected, which could disrupt the supply of our products and harm our business. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 