ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors, as well as other factors affect our business financial condition and operating results. Past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 12 Our financial results may fluctuate significantly because of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our financial results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a number of factors, many of which are difficult or impossible to control or predict, which include: • the continuing effects of economic uncertainty; • the cyclical nature of the general economy and the semiconductor industry; • difficulty in predicting revenues and ordering the correct mix of components from suppliers due to limited visibility into customers and channel partners; • changes in the mix of product sales as our margins vary by product; • fluctuations in the capitalization and amortization of unabsorbed manufacturing costs; • the impact of our revenue recognition policies on reported results; • the reduction, rescheduling, cancellation or timing of orders by our customers, distributors and channel partners due to, among others, the following factors: • management of customer, subcontractor, logistic provider and/or channel inventory; • delays in shipments from our foundries and subcontractors causing supply shortages; • inability of our foundries and subcontractors to provide quality products, in adequate quantities and in a timely manner; • dependency on a single product with a single customer and/or distributor; • volatility of demand for equipment sold by our large customers, which in turn, introduces demand volatility for our products; • demand disruption if customers change or modify their complex subcontract manufacturing supply chain; • demand disruption in customer demand due to technical or quality issues with our devices or components in their system; • the inability of our customers to obtain components from their other suppliers; • disruption in sales or distribution channels; • our ability to maintain and expand distributor relationships; • changes in sales and implementation cycles for our products; • the ability of our suppliers and customers to remain solvent, obtain financing or fund capital expenditures as a result of the recent global economic slowdown; • risks associated with entering new markets; • the announcement or introduction of products by our existing competitors or new competitors; • loss of market share by our customers; • competitive pressures on selling prices or product availability; • pressures on selling prices overseas due to foreign currency exchange fluctuations; 13 • erosion of average selling prices coupled with the inability to sell newer products with higher average selling prices, resulting in lower overall revenue and margins; • delays in product releases; • market and/or customer acceptance of our products; • consolidation among our competitors, our customers and/or our customers’ customers; • changes in our customers’ end user concentration or requirements; • loss of one or more major customers; • significant changes in ordering pattern by major customers; • our or our channel partners’ or logistic providers’ ability to maintain and manage appropriate inventory levels; • the availability and cost of materials and services, including foundry, assembly and test capacity, needed by us from our foundries and other manufacturing suppliers; • disruptions in our or our customers’ supply chain due to natural disasters, fire, outbreak of communicable diseases, labor disputes, civil unrest or other reasons; • delays in successful transfer of manufacturing processes to our subcontractors; • fluctuations in the manufacturing output, yields, and capacity of our suppliers; • fluctuation in suppliers’ capacity due to reorganization, relocation or shift in business focus, financial constraints, or other reasons; • problems, costs, or delays that we may face in shifting our products to smaller geometry process technologies and in achieving higher levels of design and device integration; • our ability to successfully introduce and transfer into production new products and/or integrate new technologies; • excess inventory levels or unanticipated inventory write-downs if expected orders fail to materialize or inventory becomes obsolete; • increased manufacturing costs; • higher mask tooling costs associated with advanced technologies; and • the amount and timing of our investment in research and development; • costs and business disruptions associated with stockholder or regulatory issues; • the timing and amount of employer payroll tax to be paid on our employees’ gains on exercise of stock options; • an inability to generate profits to utilize net operating losses; • increased costs and time associated with compliance with new accounting rules or new regulatory requirements; • changes in accounting or other regulatory rules, such as the requirement to record assets and liabilities at fair value; • write-off of some or all of our goodwill and other intangible assets; • fluctuations in interest rates and/or market values of our marketable securities; • litigation costs associated with the defense of suits brought or complaints made against us or enforcement of our rights; and • changes in or continuation of certain tax provisions. 14 If we are unable to grow or secure and convert a significant portion of our design wins into revenue, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely impacted. We continue to secure design wins for new and existing products. Such design wins are necessary for revenue growth. However, many of our design wins may never generate revenues if end-customer projects are unsuccessful in the market place, the end-customer terminates the project, which may occur for a variety of reasons or the end-customer selects a competitive solution. Mergers, consolidations, changing market requirements and cost reduction activities among our customers may lead to termination of certain projects before the associated design win generates revenue. If design wins do generate revenue, the time lag between the design win and meaningful revenue is typically between six months to longer than 18 months. If we fail to grow and convert a significant portion of our design wins into substantial revenue, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. Under continued uncertain global economic conditions, our design wins could be delayed even longer than the typical lag period and our eventual revenue could be less than anticipated from products that were introduced within the last eighteen to thirty-six months, which would likely materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Global capital, credit market, employment, and general economic and political conditions, and resulting declines in consumer confidence and spending, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Because our customers, suppliers and other business partners are in many countries around the world, we must monitor general global conditions for impact on our business. Economies throughout global regions continue to be volatile and, in many countries, inconsistent with trends in the U.S. or other stable economies. In Europe uncertainty continues regarding the ability of certain countries to service their level of debt. In recent quarters in China and certain other Asian countries growth has continued but at a slower pace than earlier in the recovery. Political conditions in individual countries or across regions can also impact our business. We cannot predict the timing, severity or duration of any economic slowdown or recovery or the impact of any such events on our vendors, customers or us. If the economy or markets in which we operate deteriorate from current levels, many related factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition, including the following: • slower spending by our target markets and economic fluctuations may result in reduced demand for our products, reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, lower revenues, increased inventories, and lower gross margins; • if recent restructuring activities insufficiently lower our operating expense or we fail to execute on our growth strategy, our restructuring efforts may not be successful and we may not be able to realize the cost savings and other anticipated benefits; • if we further reduce our workforce or curtail or redirect research and development efforts, it may adversely impact our ability to respond rapidly to product development or growth opportunities; • we may be unable to predict the strength or duration of market conditions or the effects of consolidation of our customers or competitors in their industries, which may result in project delays or cancellations; • we may be unable to find suitable investments that are safe or liquid, or that provide a reasonable return resulting in lower interest income or longer investment horizons, and disruptions to capital markets or the banking system may also impair the value of investments or bank deposits we currently consider safe or liquid; • the failure of financial institution counterparties to honor their obligations to us under credit instruments could jeopardize our ability to rely on and benefit from those instruments, and our ability to replace those instruments on the same or similar terms may be limited under poor market conditions; • continued volatility in the markets and prices for commodities, such as gold, and raw materials we use in our products and in our supply chain, could have a material adverse effect on our costs, gross margins, and profitability; • if distributors of our products experience declining revenues, experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase our products or experience severe financial difficulty, it could result in insolvency, reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, inability to timely meet payment obligations to us, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expenses associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expenses; 15 • if contract manufacturers or foundries of our products or other participants in our supply chain experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase raw materials or to finance general working capital needs, it may result in delays or non-delivery of shipments of our products; • potential shutdowns or over capacity constraints by our third-party foundry, assembly and test subcontractors could result in longer lead-times, higher buffer inventory levels and degraded on-time delivery performance; and • the current macroeconomic envir onment also limits our visibility into future purchases by our customers and renewals of existing agreements, which may necessitate changes to our business model. If we fail to develop, introduce or enhance products that meet evolving needs or which are necessitated by technological advances, or we are unable to grow revenue in our served markets, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. The markets for our products are characterized by a number of factors, some of which are listed below: • changing or disruptive technologies; • evolving and competing industry standards; • changing customer requirements; • increasing price pressure from lower priced solutions; • increasing product development costs; • finite market windows for product introductions; • design-to-production cycles; • increasing functional integration; • competitive solutions, stronger customer engagement or broader product offering; • fluctuations in capital equipment spending levels and/or deployment; • rapid adjustments in customer demand and inventory; • moderate to slow growth; • frequent product introductions and enhancements; and • changing competitive landscape (due to consolidation, financial viability, etc.). Our growth depends in large part on our continued development and timely release of new products for our core markets. We must: (1) anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards; (2) properly define, develop and introduce new products on a timely basis; (3) gain access to and use technologies in a cost-effective manner; (4) have suppliers produce quality products consistent with our requirements; (5) continue to expand and retain our technical and design expertise; (6) introduce and cost-effectively deliver new products in line with our customer product introduction requirements; (7) differentiate our products from our competitors’ offerings; and (8) gain customer acceptance of our products. In addition, we must continue to have our products designed into our customers’ future products and maintain close working relationships with key customers to define and develop new products that meet their evolving needs. Moreover, we must respond in a rapid and cost-effective manner to shifts in market demands to increased functional integration and other changes. Migration from older products to newer products may result in earnings volatility as revenues from older products decline and revenues from newer products begin to grow. Products for our customers’ applications are subject to continually evolving industry standards and new technologies. Our ability to compete will depend in part on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these industry standards. The emergence of new standards could render our products incompatible with other products that meet those standards. We could be required to invest significant time, effort and expense to develop and qualify new products to ensure compliance with industry standards. 16 The process of developing and supporting new products is complex, expensive and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict, understand and execute to our customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. In addition, we may make significant investments to define new products according to input from our customers who may choose a competitor’s or an internal solution or cancel their projects. We may not be able to identify new product opportunities successfully, develop and bring to market new products, achieve design wins, ensure when and which design wins actually get released to production, or respond effectively to technological changes or product announcements by our competitors. In addition, we may not be successful in developing or using new technologies or may incorrectly anticipate market demand and develop products that achieve little or no market acceptance. Our pursuit of technological advances may require substantial time and expense and may ultimately prove unsuccessful. Failure in any of these areas may materially and adversely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from distributors, especially from our two primary distributors, Future Electronics Inc. (“Future”), a related party, and Arrow Electronics, Inc. (“Arrow”). Our revenues would likely decline significantly if our primary distributors elected not to or we were unable to effectively promote or sell our products or if they elected to cancel, reduce or defer purchases of our products. Future and Arrow have historically accounted for a significant portion of our revenues and they are our two primary distributors worldwide. We anticipate that sales of our products to these distributors will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of either Future or Arrow as a distributor, for any reason, or a significant reduction in orders from either of them would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Sales to Future and Arrow are made under agreements that provide protection against price reduction for their inventory of our products. As such, we could be exposed to significant liability if the inventory value of the products held by Future and Arrow declined dramatically. Our distributor agreements with Future and Arrow do not contain minimum purchase commitments. As a result, Future and Arrow could cease purchasing our products with short notice or cease distributing our products. In addition, they may defer or cancel orders without penalty, which would likely cause our revenues to decline and materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our distributors or sales representatives stop selling or fail to successfully promote our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. We sell many of our products through sales representatives and distributors, many of which sell directly to OEMs, contract manufacturers and end customers. Our non-exclusive distributors and sales representatives may carry our competitors’ products, which could adversely impact or limit sales of our products. Additionally, they could reduce or discontinue sales of our products or may not devote the resources necessary to sell our products in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect. Our agreements with distributors contain limited provisions for return of our products, including stock rotations whereby distributors may return a percentage of their purchases from us based upon a percentage of their most recent three or six months of shipments. In addition, in certain circumstances upon termination of the distributor relationship, distributors may return some portion of their prior purchases. The loss of business from any of our significant distributors or the delay of significant orders from any of them, even if only temporary, could materially and adversely impact our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Moreover, we depend on the continued viability and financial resources of these distributors and sales representatives, some of which are small organizations with limited working capital. In turn, these distributors and sales representatives are subject to general economic and semiconductor industry conditions. We believe that our success will continue to depend on these distributors and sales representatives. If some or all of our distributors and sales representatives experience financial difficulties, or otherwise become unable or unwilling to promote and sell our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. Certain of our distributors may rely heavily on the availability of short-term capital at reasonable rates to fund their ongoing operations. If this capital is not available, or is only available on onerous terms, certain distributors may not be able to pay for inventory received or we may experience a reduction in orders from these distributors, which would likely cause our revenue to decline and materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 If we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our products, we may be unable to efficiently manage our inventory. Due to the absence of substantial non-cancelable backlog, we typically plan our production and inventory levels based on customer forecasts, internal evaluation of customer demand and current backlog, which can fluctuate substantially. Due to a number of factors such as customer changes in delivery schedules and quantities actually purchased, cancellation of orders, distributor returns or price reductions, our backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. The still unsettled, uncertain and weak economy may increase the risk of purchase order cancellations or delays, product returns and price reductions. We may not be able to meet our expected revenue levels or results of operations if there is a reduction in our order backlog for any particular period and we are unable to replace those anticipated sales during the same period. Our forecast accuracy can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including inaccurate forecasting by our customers, changes in market conditions, new part introductions by our competitors, loss of previous design wins, adverse changes in our scheduled product order mix and demand for our customers’ products or models. As a consequence of these factors and other inaccuracies inherent in forecasting, inventory imbalances periodically occur that result in surplus amounts of some of our products and shortages of others. Such shortages can adversely impact customer relations and surpluses can result in larger-than-desired inventory levels, either of which can materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Due to the unpredictability of global economic conditions and increased difficulty in forecasting demand for our products, we could experience an increase in inventory levels. In instances where we have hub agreements with certain vendors, the inability of our partners to provide accurate and timely information regarding inventory and related shipments of the inventory may impact our ability to maintain the proper amount of inventory at the hubs, forecast usage of the inventory and record accurate revenue recognition which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial conditions and the results of operations. We depend on third-party subcontractors to manufacture our products. We utilize wafer foundries for processing our wafers and assembly and test subcontractors for manufacturing and testing our integrated circuit products and board assembly subcontractors for our board-level products. Any disruption in or loss of our subcontractors’ capacity to manufacture and test our products subjects us to a number of risks, including the potential for an inadequate supply of products and higher materials costs. These risks may lead to delayed product delivery or increased costs, which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication facility or a foundry. We utilize various foundries for different processes. Our products are based on complementary metal oxide semiconductor (“CMOS”) processes, bipolar processes and bipolar-CMOS (“BiCMOS”) processes. Our foundries produce semiconductors for many other companies (many of which have greater volume requirements than us), and therefore, we may not have access on a timely basis to sufficient capacity or certain process technologies and we have from time to time, experienced extended lead times on some products. In addition, we rely on our foundries’ continued financial health and ability to continue to invest in smaller geometry manufacturing processes and additional wafer processing capacity. Many of our new products are designed to take advantage of smaller geometry manufacturing processes. Due to the complexity and increased cost of migrating to smaller geometries, as well as process changes, we could experience interruptions in production or significantly reduced yields causing product introduction or delivery delays. If such delays occur, our products may have delayed market acceptance or customers may select our competitors’ products during the design process. New and current process technologies or products can be subject to wide variations in manufacturing yields and efficiency. Our foundries or the foundries of our suppliers may experience unfavorable yield variances or other manufacturing problems that result in product introduction or delivery delays. Further, if the products manufactured by our foundries contain production defects, reliability issues or quality or compatibility problems that are significant to our customers, our reputation may be damaged and customers may cancel orders or be reluctant to continue to buy our products, which could adversely affect our ability to retain and attract new customers. In addition, these defects or bugs could interrupt or delay sales of affected products, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our foundries and test assembly subcontractors manufacture our products on a purchase order basis. We provide our foundries with rolling forecasts of our production requirements; however, the ability of our foundries to provide wafers is limited by the foundries’ available capacity. Our third-party foundries may not allocate sufficient capacity to satisfy our requirements. In addition, we may not continue to do business with our foundries on terms as favorable as our current terms. Furthermore, any sudden reduction or elimination of any primary source or sources of fully processed wafers could result in a material delay in the shipment of our products. Any delays or shortages would likely materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, the products produced from the wafers manufactured by our supplier in Hangzhou, China currently constitute a significant part of our total revenue, and so any delay, reduction or elimination of our ability to obtain wafers from this supplier could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our reliance on our wafer foundries, assembly and test subcontractors and board assembly subcontractors involves the following risks, among others: • a manufacturing disruption or sudden reduction or elimination of any existing source(s) of semiconductor manufacturing materials or processes, which might include the potential closure, change of ownership, change in business conditions or relationships, change of management or consolidation by one of our foundries; 18 • disruption of manufacturing or assembly or test services due to vendor transition, relocation or limited capacity of the foundries or subcontractors; • inability to obtain, develop or ensure the continuation of technologies needed to manufacture our products; • extended time required to identify, qualify and transfer to alternative manufacturing sources for existing or new products or the possible inability to obtain an adequate alternative; • failure of our foundries or subcontractors to obtain raw materials and equipment; • increasing cost of commodities, such as gold, raw materials and energy resulting in higher wafer or package costs; • long-term financial and operating stability of the foundries or their suppliers or subcontractors and their ability to invest in new capabilities and expand capacity to meet increasing demand, to remain solvent or to obtain financing in tight credit markets; • continuing measures taken by our suppliers such as reductions in force, pay reductions, forced time off or shut down of production for extended periods of time to reduce and/or control operating expenses in response to weakened customer demand; • subcontractors’ inability to transition to smaller package types or new package compositions; • a sudden, sharp increase in demand for semiconductor devices, which could strain the foundries’ or subcontractors’ manufacturing resources and cause delays in manufacturing and shipment of our products; • manufacturing quality control or process control issues, including reduced control over manufacturing yields, production schedules and product quality; • potential misappropriation of our intellectual property; • disruption of transportation to and from Asia where most of our foundries and subcontractors are located; • political, civil, labor or economic instability; • embargoes or other regulatory limitations affecting the availability of raw materials, equipment or changes in tax laws, tariffs, services and freight rates; and • compliance with U.S., local or international regulatory requirements. Other additional risks associated with subcontractors include: • subcontractors imposing higher minimum order quantities for substrates; • potential increase in assembly and test costs; • our board level product volume may not be attractive to preferred manufacturing partners, which could result in higher pricing, extended lead times or having to qualify an alternative vendor; • difficulties in selecting, qualifying and integrating new subcontractors; • inventory and delivery management issues relating to hub arrangements; • entry into “take-or-pay” agreements; and • limited warranties from our subcontractors for products assembled and tested for us. 19 We depend in part on the continued service of our key engineering and executive management personnel and our ability to identify, hire, incentivize and retain qualified personnel. If we lose key employees or fail to identify, hire, incentivize and retain these individuals, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. Our future success depends, in part, on the continued service of our key design, engineering, technical, sales, marketing and executive personnel and our ability to identify, hire, motivate and retain such qualified personnel, as well as effectively and quickly replace key personnel with qualified successors with competitive incentive compensation packages. Under certain circumstances, including a company acquisition, significant restructuring or business downturn, current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price and the ability or willingness to offer meaningful competitive equity compensation and incentive plans or in amounts consistent with market practices may also adversely affect our ability to retain and incentivize key employees. In addition, competitors may recruit our employees, as is common in the high tech sector. If we are unable to retain personnel that are critical to our future operations, we could face disruptions in operations, loss of existing customers, loss of key information, expertise or know-how, unanticipated additional recruiting and training costs, and potentially higher compensation costs. Competition for skilled employees having specialized technical capabilities and industry-specific expertise is intense and continues to be a considerable risk inherent in the markets in which we compete. At times, competition for such employees has been particularly notable in California and People’s Republic of China (“PRC”). Further, the PRC historically has different managing principles from Western style management and financial reporting concepts and practices, as well as different banking, computer and other control systems, making the successful identification and employment of qualified personnel particularly important, and hiring and retaining a sufficient number of such qualified employees may be difficult. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing and maintaining management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data, books of account and records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards and regulations, which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our employees are employed “at-will”, which means that they can terminate their employment at any time. Our international locations are subject to local labor laws, which are often significantly different from U.S. labor laws and which may under certain conditions, result in large separation costs upon termination. Further, employing individuals in international locations is subject to other risks inherent in international operations, such as those discussed with respect to international sales below, among others. The failure to recruit and retain, as necessary, key design engineers and technical, sales, marketing and executive personnel could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Stock-based awards are critical to our ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled talent. In making employment decisions, particularly in the semiconductor industry and the geographies where our employees are located, a key consideration of current and potential employees is the value of the equity awards they receive in connection with their employment. If we are unable to offer employment packages with a competitive equity award component, our ability to attract highly skilled employees would be harmed. In addition, volatility in our stock price could result in a stock option’s exercise price exceeding the market value of our common stock or a deterioration in the value of restricted stock units granted, thus lessening the effectiveness of stock-based awards for retaining and motivating employees. Similarly, decreases in the number of unvested in-the-money stock options held by existing employees, whether because our stock price has declined, options have vested, or because the size of follow-on option grants has decreased, may make it more difficult to retain and motivate employees. Consequently, we may not continue to successfully attract and retain key employees, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have made, and in the future may make, acquisitions and significant strategic equity investments, which may involve a number of risks. If we are unable to address these risks successfully, such acquisitions and investments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have undertaken a number of strategic acquisitions, have made strategic investments in the past, and may make further strategic acquisitions and investments from time to time in the future. The risks involved with these acquisitions and investments include: • the possibility that we may not receive a favorable return on our investment or incur losses from our investment or the original investment may become impaired; • revenues or synergies could fall below projections or fail to materialize as assumed; • failure to satisfy or set effective strategic objectives; • the possibility of litigation arising from or in connection with these acquisitions; • our assumption of known or unknown liabilities or other unanticipated events or circumstances; and • the diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations of the business and the resulting potential disruptions to the ongoing business. 20 Additional risks involved with acquisitions include: • difficulties in integrating and managing various functional areas such as sales, engineering, marketing, and operations; • difficulties in incorporating or leveraging acquired technologies and intellectual property rights in new products; • difficulties or delays in the transfer of manufacturing flows and supply chains of products of acquired businesses; • failure to retain and integrate key personnel; • failure to retain and maintain relationships with existing customers, distributors, channel partners and other parties; • failure to manage and operate multiple geographic locations both effectively and efficiently; • failure to coordinate research and development activities to enhance and develop new products and services in a timely manner that optimize the assets and resources of the combined company; • difficulties in creating uniform standards, controls (including internal control over financial reporting), procedures, policies and information systems; • unexpected capital equipment outlays and continuing expenses related to technical and operational integration; • difficulties in entering markets or retaining current markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience or where competitors in such markets may have stronger market positions; • insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; • under-performance problems with an acquired company; • issuance of common stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • reduction in liquidity and interest income on lower cash balances; • recording of goodwill and intangible assets that will be subject to periodic impairment testing and potential impairment charges against our future earnings; • incurring amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; and • incurring large and immediate write-offs of assets. Strategic equity investments also involve risks associated with third parties managing the funds and the risk of poor strategic choices or execution of strategic and operating plans. We may not address these risks successfully without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems, or at all. Any delays or other such operations or financial problems could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Our business may be materially and adversely impacted if we fail to effectively utilize and incorporate acquired technologies. We have acquired and may in the future acquire intellectual property in order to expand our serviceable markets, accelerate our time to market, and to accelerate to gain market share for new and existing products. Acquisitions of intellectual property may involve risks relating to, among other things, valuation of innovative capabilities, successful technical integration into new products, loss of key technical personnel, compliance with contractual obligations, market acceptance of new product features or capabilities, and achievement of planned return on investment. Successful technical integration in particular requires a variety of capabilities that we may not currently have, such as available technical staff with sufficient time to devote to integration, the requisite skills to understand the acquired technology and the necessary support tools to effectively utilize the technology. The timely and efficient integration of acquired technology may be adversely impacted by inherent design deficiencies or application requirements. The potential failure of or delay in product introduction utilizing acquired intellectual property could lead to an impairment of capitalized intellectual property acquisition costs, which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because a significant portion of our total assets were, and may again be with future potential acquisitions, represented by goodwill and other intangible assets, which are subject to mandatory annual impairment evaluations, we could be required to write-off some or all of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of the purchase price for any business combination may be allocated to identifiable tangible and intangible assets and assumed liabilities based on estimated fair values at the date of consummation. As required by U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), the excess purchase price, if any, over the fair value of these assets less liabilities typically would be allocated to goodwill. We evaluate goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events and changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. We typically conduct our annual analysis of our goodwill at the reporting unit level in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. The assessment of goodwill and other intangible assets impairment is a subjective process. Estimations and assumptions regarding the number of reporting units, future performance, results of our operations and comparability of our market capitalization and net book value will be used. Changes in estimates and assumptions could impact fair value resulting in an impairment, which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because some of our integrated circuit and board level products have lengthy sales cycles, we may experience substantial delays between incurring expenses related to product development and the revenue derived from these products. A portion of our revenue is derived from selling integrated circuits and board level products to end customer equipment vendors. Due to their product development cycle, we have typically experienced at least an eighteen-month time lapse between our initial contact with a customer and realizing volume shipments. In such instances, we first work with customers to achieve a design win, which may take six months or longer. Our customers then complete their design, test and evaluation process and begin to ramp-up production, a period which typically lasts an additional six months. The customers of equipment manufacturers may also require a period of time for testing and evaluation, which may cause further delays. As a result, a significant period of time may elapse between our research and development efforts and realization of revenue, if any, from volume purchasing of our products by our customers. Due to the length of the end customer equipment vendors’ product development cycle, the risks of project cancellation by our customers, price erosion or volume reduction are common aspects of such engagements. The complexity of our products may lead to errors, defects and bugs, which could subject us to significant costs or damages and adversely affect market acceptance of our products. Although we, our customers and our suppliers rigorously test our products, they may contain undetected errors, performance weaknesses, defects or bugs when first introduced, as new versions are released when manufacturing or process changes are made. If any of our products contain production defects or reliability issues, quality or compatibility problems that are significant to our customers, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to continue to design in or buy our products, which could adversely affect our ability to retain and attract new customers. In addition, these defects or bugs could interrupt or delay sales of affected products, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If defects or bugs are discovered after commencement of commercial production, we may be required to make significant expenditures of capital and other resources to resolve the problems. This could result in significant additional development costs and the diversion of technical and other resources from our other business development efforts. We could also incur significant costs to repair or replace defective products or may agree to be liable for certain damages incurred. These costs or damages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, we will experience fewer customer orders, reduced revenues, reduced gross margins and lost market share. We compete in markets that are intensely competitive, and which are subject to both rapid technological change, continued price erosion and changing business terms with regard to risk allocation. Our competitors include many large domestic and foreign companies that may have substantially greater financial, market share, technical and management resources, name recognition and leverage than we have. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to promote the sale of their products. We have experienced increased competition at the design stage, where customers evaluate alternative solutions based on a number of factors, including price, performance, product features, technologies, and availability of long-term product supply and/or roadmap guarantee. Additionally, we experience, and may in the future experience, in some cases, severe pressure on pricing from competitors or on-going cost reduction expectations from customers. Such circumstances may make some of our products unattractive due to price or performance measures and result in the loss of our design opportunities or a decrease in our revenue and margins. Also, competition from new companies, including those from emerging economy countries, with significantly lower costs could affect our selling price and gross margins. In addition, if competitors in Asia continue to reduce prices on commodity products, it would adversely affect our ability to compete effectively in that region. Specifically, we have licensed rights to a supplier in China to market our commodity connectivity products, which could reduce our sales in the future should they become a meaningful competitor. Loss of competitive position could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced revenues, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, many of our existing and potential customers internally develop solutions which attempt to perform all or a portion of the functions performed by our products. To remain competitive, we continue to evaluate our manufacturing operations for opportunities for additional cost savings and technological improvements. If we or our contract partners are unable to successfully implement new process technologies and to achieve volume production of new products at acceptable yields, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly at times. In the future, the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to, among other reasons: • our anticipated or actual operating results; • announcements or introductions of new products by us or our competitors; • technological innovations by us or our competitors; • investor perception of the semiconductor sector; • loss of or changes to key executives; • product delays or setbacks by us, our customers or our competitors; • potential supply disruptions; • sales channel interruptions; • concentration of sales among a small number of customers; • conditions in our customers’ markets and the semiconductor markets; • the commencement and/or results of litigation; • changes in estimates of our performance by securities analysts; • decreases in the value of our investments or long-lived assets, thereby requiring an asset impairment charge against earnings; • repurchasing shares of our common stock; • announcements of merger or acquisition transactions; and/or • general global economic and capital market conditions. 23 In the past, securities and class action litigation has been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. We may be the target of one or more of these class action suits, which could result in significant costs and divert management’s attention, thereby materially and adversely impacting our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, at times the stock market has experienced extreme price, volume and value fluctuations that affect the market prices of the stock of many high technology companies, including semiconductor companies, that are unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Any such fluctuations may harm the market price of our common stock. Occasionally, we enter into agreements that expose us to potential damages that exceed the value of the agreement. We have given certain customers increased indemnification protection for product deficiencies or intellectual property infringement that is in excess of our standard limited warranty and indemnification provisions and could result in costs that are in excess of the original contract value. In an attempt to limit this liability, we have purchased insurance coverage to partially offset some of these potential additional costs; however, our insurance coverage could be insufficient in terms of amount and/or coverage to prevent us from suffering material losses if the indemnification amounts are large enough or if there are coverage issues. As of March 31, 2013, affiliates of Future, Alonim Investments Inc. and two of its affiliates (collectively “Alonim”), beneficially own approximately 16% of our common stock and Soros Fund Management LLC, as principal investment manager for Quantum Partners LP (“Soros”), beneficially owns approximately 14% of our common stock. As such, Alonim and Soros are our largest stockholders. These substantial ownership positions provide the opportunity for Alonim and Soros to significantly influence matters requiring stockholder approval, which may or may not be in our best interests or the interest of our other stockholders. In addition, Alonim is an affiliate of Future and an executive officer of Future is on our board of directors, which could lead to actual or perceived influence from Future. Alonim and Soros each own a significant percentage of our outstanding shares. Due to such ownership, Alonim and Soros, acting independently or jointly, have not in the past, but may in the future, exert strong influence over actions requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the election of directors, many types of change of control transactions and amendments to our charter documents. Further, if one of these stockholders were to sell or even propose to sell a large number of their shares, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. Although we have no reason to believe it to be the case, the interests of these significant stockholders could conflict with our best interests or the interests of the other stockholders. For example, the significant ownership percentages of these two stockholders could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from obtaining control of us, regardless of whether the change of control is supported by us and our other stockholders. Conversely, by virtue of their percentage ownership of our stock, Alonim and/or Soros could facilitate a takeover transaction that our board of directors and/or other stockholders did not approve. Further, Alonim is an affiliate of Future, our largest distributor, and Pierre Guilbault, executive vice president and chief financial officer of Future, is a member of our board of directors. These relationships could also result in actual or perceived attempts to influence management or take actions beneficial to Future which may or may not be beneficial to us or in our best interests. Future could attempt to obtain terms and conditions more favorable than those we would typically provide to other distributors because of its relationship with us. Any such actual or perceived preferential treatment could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Earthquakes and other natural disasters, may damage our facilities or those of our suppliers and customers. The occurrence of natural disasters in certain regions, such as the recent natural disasters in Asia, could adversely impact our manufacturing and supply chain, our ability to deliver products on a timely basis (or at all) to our customers and the cost of or demand for our products. Our corporate headquarters in Fremont, California is located near major earthquake faults that have experienced seismic activity and is approximately 170 miles from a nuclear power plant. In addition, some of our other offices, customers and suppliers are in locations, which may be subject to similar natural disasters. In the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster near our offices, our operations could be disrupted. Similarly, a major earthquake or other natural disaster, such as the flooding in Thailand, affecting one or more of our major customers or suppliers could adversely impact the operations of those affected, which could disrupt the supply or sales of our products and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Any error in our sell-through revenue recognition judgment or estimates could lead to inaccurate reporting of our net sales, gross profit, deferred income and allowances on sales to distributors and net income. Sell-through revenue recognition is highly dependent on receiving pertinent and accurate data from our distributors in a timely fashion. Distributors provide us periodic data regarding the product, price, quantity, and end customer when products are resold as well as the quantities of our products they still have in stock. We must use estimates and apply judgment to reconcile distributors’ reported inventories to their activities. Any error in our judgment could lead to inaccurate reporting of our net sales, gross profit, deferred income and allowances on sales to distributors and net income, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights, which could harm our competitive position. Our ability to compete is affected by our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, mask work registrations, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and non-disclosure and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite these efforts, we may be unable to protect our proprietary information. Such intellectual property rights may not be recognized or if recognized, may not be commercially feasible to enforce. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop technology that is substantially similar or superior to our technology. More specifically, our pending patent applications or any future applications may not be approved, and any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties. If challenged, our patents may be found to be invalid or unenforceable, and the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar products or processes, duplicate our products or processes or design around any patents that may be issued to us. We could be required to pay substantial damages or could be subject to various equitable remedies if it were proven that we infringed the intellectual property rights of others. As a general matter, semiconductor companies may from time to time become involved with ongoing litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. If a third party were to prove that our technology infringed its intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay substantial damages for past infringement and could be required to pay license fees or royalties on future sales of our products. If we were required to pay such license fees whenever we sold our products, such fees could exceed our revenue. In addition, if it was proven that we willfully infringed a third party’s proprietary rights, we could be held liable for three times the amount of the damages that we would otherwise have to pay. Such intellectual property litigation could also require us to: • stop selling, incorporating or using our products that use the infringed intellectual property; • obtain a license to make, sell or use the relevant technology from the owner of the infringed intellectual property, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; and/or • redesign our products so as not to use the infringed intellectual property, which may not be technically or commercially feasible. The defense of infringement claims and lawsuits, regardless of their outcome, would likely be expensive and could require a significant portion of management’s time. In addition, rather than litigating an infringement matter, we may determine that it is in our best interests to settle the matter. Terms of a settlement may include the payment of damages and our agreement to license technology in exchange for a license fee and ongoing royalties. These fees could be substantial. If we were required to pay damages or otherwise became subject to equitable remedies, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. Similarly, if we were required to pay license fees to third parties based on a successful infringement claim brought against us, such fees could exceed our revenue. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimations and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, assumptions and changes in rulemaking by regulatory bodies; and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Our revenue reporting is highly dependent on receiving pertinent and accurate data from our distributors in a timely fashion. Distributors provide us periodic data regarding the product, price, quantity and end customer when products are resold as well as the quantities of our products they still have in stock. We must use estimates and apply judgment to reconcile distributors’ reported inventories to their activities. Any error in our judgment could lead to inaccurate reporting of our net sales, gross profit, deferred income and allowances on sales to distributors and net income. We estimate the fair value of stock options on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of stock-based compensation represent our estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgments, which include the expected term of the stock-based awards, stock price volatility and forfeiture rates. As a result, if factors change and we use different assumptions, our stock-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. On an on-going basis, we use estimates and judgment to evaluate valuation of inventories, income taxes, goodwill and long-lived assets in preparing our consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ from these estimates and material effects on operating results and financial position may result. The final determination of our income tax liability may be materially different from our income tax provision, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; • changes in available tax credits; • changes in stock-based compensation expense; • changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and/or • the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact net income for future periods. In addition, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other tax authorities regularly examine our income tax returns. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted if these assessments or any other assessments resulting from the examination of our income tax returns by the IRS or other taxing authorities are not resolved in our favor. We have acquired significant Net Operating Loss (“NOL”) carryforwards as a result of our acquisitions. The utilization of acquired NOL carryforwards is subject to the IRS’s complex limitation rules that carry significant burdens of proof. Limitations include certain levels of a change in ownership. As a publicly traded company, such change in ownership may be out of our control. Our eventual ability to utilize our estimated NOL carryforwards is subject to IRS scrutiny and our future results may not benefit as a result of potential unfavorable IRS rulings. Our engagement with foreign customers could cause fluctuations in our operating results, which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. International sales have accounted for, and will likely continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues, which subjects us to the following risks, among others: • changes in regulatory requirements; 26 • tariffs, embargoes, directives and other trade barriers which impact our or our customers’ business operations; • timing and availability of export or import licenses; • disruption of services due to political, civil, labor or economic instability; • disruption of services due to natural disasters outside the United States; • disruptions to customer operations outside the United States due to the outbreak of communicable diseases; • difficulties in accounts receivable collections; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary and branch operations; • difficulties in managing sales channel partners; • difficulties in obtaining governmental approvals for our products; • limited intellectual property protection; • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • the burden of complying with foreign laws and treaties; • contractual or indemnity issues that are materially different from our standard sales terms; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. In addition, because sales of our products have been denominated primarily in U.S. dollars, increases in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared with local currencies could make our products more expensive to customers in the local currency of a particular country resulting in pricing pressures on our products. Increased international activity in the future may result in foreign currency denominated sales. Furthermore, because some of our customers’ purchase orders and agreements are governed by foreign laws, we may be limited in our ability, or it may be too costly for us, to enforce our rights under these agreements and to collect damages, if awarded. We may be exposed to additional credit risk as a result of the addition of significant direct customers through acquisitions. From time to time one of our customers has contributed more than 10% of our quarterly net sales. A number of our customers are OEMs, or the manufacturing subcontractors of OEMs, which might result in an increase in concentrated credit risk with respect to our trade receivables and therefore, if a large customer were to be unable to pay, it could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with new regulations regarding the use of conflict minerals could adversely impact the supply and cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. In August 2012, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) issued final rules for compliance with Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act, and outlined what publicly-traded companies in the U.S. have to disclose regarding their use of conflict minerals in their products. According to the rule, companies that utilize any of the 3TG (tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold) minerals in their products need to conduct a reasonable country of origin inquiry to determine if the minerals are coming from the conflict zones in and around the Democratic Republic of Congo. The first filings are due May 31, 2014 for calendar year 2013. The implementation of these new regulations may limit the sourcing and availability of some metals used in the manufacture of our products and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 27 