Item 1A. Risk Factors.” None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement, and we have never experienced a work stoppage due to labor issues. We believe our employee relations are good. Recent Development On May 7, 2007, we signed a definitive agreement with Sipex Corporation (“Sipex”) to acquire all of the outstanding stock of Sipex in exchange for 0.6679 of a share of Exar common stock for each outstanding share of 12 Table of Contents Sipex common stock and the assumption of Sipex options, warrants and convertible notes based on the same exchange ratio. The total estimated purchase price of approximately $223.9 million is comprised of Exar common stock; assumed stock options, assumed stock warrants and the conversion of approximately one-half of the Sipex convertible notes as part of the acquisition; and direct acquisition costs. This estimate was derived using an average market price per share of Exar common stock of $13.97, which was based on an average of the closing prices for a range of trading days around the announcement date (May 8, 2007) of the proposed merger. The final purchase price will be determined based upon the number of Sipex shares, options, warrants and convertible notes outstanding at the closing date. Sipex designs, manufactures and markets high performance, analog ICs that primarily are used by OEMs, operating in the computing, consumer electronics, communications and networking infrastructure markets. Completion of the merger is subject to customary closing conditions that include, among others, receipt of required approvals from our stockholders and from Sipex stockholders, and receipt of required regulatory approvals. The transaction, while expected to close in the third quarter of calendar year 2007, may not be completed if any of the conditions is not satisfied. Under certain circumstances specified in the merger agreement, we or Sipex may terminate the merger agreement, and as a result, either we or Sipex may be required to pay a $6.5 million termination fee to the other party. Unless otherwise indicated, the discussions in this Form 10-K relate to Exar as a stand-alone entity and do not reflect the impact of the pending business combination transaction with Sipex. Available Information We file electronically with the SEC our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those Reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Those reports and statements: (1) may be read and copied at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549, (2) are available at the SEC’s Internet site (http://www.sec.gov), which contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC and (3) are available free of charge through our website (www.exar.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing with, or furnishing to, the SEC. Information regarding the operation of the SEC’s public reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Copies of such documents may be requested by contacting our Investor Relations Department at (510) 668-7201 or by sending an e-mail through the Investor Relations page on our website. We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer, controller, or persons performing similar functions, and Financial Integrity Compliance Policy for all employees. We have posted our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics on our website. Any future amendments to this code will also be posted to our website. 13 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers, and their ages as of March 31, 2007, are as follows: Name Age Position Richard L. Leza. 59 Chief Executive Officer and President (Interim), and Chairman of the Board J. Scott Kamsler 59 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mir Bahram Ghaderi 55 Vice President of Engineering and Product Development John Herzing 60 Vice President of World Wide Sales Thomas R. Melendrez 53 General Counsel, Secretary and Executive Vice President, Business Development Stephen W. Michael 60 Vice President, Operations and Reliability & Quality Assurance Levent Ozcolak 45 Vice President of Marketing, Interface Products Richard L. Leza joined us in October 2005 as a Director and was elected our Chairman of the Board in September 2006. In February 2007, he was appointed interim Chief Executive Officer and President. He is the founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AI Research Corporation since 1988. From 1998 to 2001, he was the Co-Founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of CastaLink, Inc. Prior to 1998, he held similar positions at NucleoTech Corporation and RMC Group, Inc. He is a Board member of the Stanford Graduate School of Business Advisory Counsel and the New Mexico State University Foundation. Mr. Leza earned an MBA from Stanford University Graduate School of Business and a B.S. in Engineering from New Mexico State University. J. Scott Kamsler joined us in February 2007 as our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining us, he was Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at Centillium Communications, Inc., from July 2004 to February 2007. He also served as Vice President of Operations at Wyse Technology Inc. from 2003 to 2004 and as Chief Financial Officer at Tasman Networks, Inc. from 2000 to 2002. Prior to Tasman Networks, he served as Chief Financial Officer of four public companies: Symmetricom, Inc, DSP Technology Inc., Solitec, Inc. and E-H International, Inc. Earlier in his career, he held various finance positions at Intel Corporation and was an auditor with Peat Marwick Mitchell. Mr. Kamsler is a CPA and received his B.A. from Willamette University and his M.B.A. from the University of Washington. Mir Bahram Ghaderi joined us in March 1995 as our Director of Engineering, Startech Division, when we acquired Startech Semiconductor, Inc., where he had served as Vice President of Engineering. He was promoted to Divisional Vice President of Engineering, Communications Division in September 2001, Vice President and General Manager, Network and Transmission Products Division in April 2003, and appointed Vice President of Engineering and Product Development in July 2006. Prior to joining Startech in 1994, he was Director of Engineering, Modem/Clock Products, at Sierra Semiconductor, Inc. Dr. Ghaderi has over 25 years of product development experience in the semiconductor industry and received a M.S.E.E. and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the University of California at Los Angeles, as well as a M.S.E.E. from Tehran University. John Herzing joined us in July 2006 as our Vice President of World Wide Sales. Prior to joining us, from 2005 to 2006 he was Vice President of World Wide Sales for Neoconix. From 2002 to 2004, he was Vice President of Sales for Brilliance Semiconductor. Before that, he held executive roles at ITF Optical Technologies, as Vice President of Worldwide Sales, and at both OKI Semiconductor and Fujitsu Microelectronics as Vice President of Sales and Marketing. He held a number of management positions in sales and marketing at Texas Instruments, including Vice President of Sales for the Components Group. Mr. Herzing has over 25 years of semiconductor sales management experience and received his B.S. in Electrical Engineering and an M.B.A from Washington University. Thomas R. Melendrez joined us in April 1986 as our Corporate Attorney. He was promoted to Director, Legal Affairs in July 1991, and again to Corporate Vice President, Legal Affairs in March 1993. In March 1996, 14 Table of Contents he was promoted to Corporate Vice President, General Counsel and in June 2001, he was appointed Secretary. In April 2003, he was promoted to General Counsel, Secretary and Vice President, Business Development and in July 2005, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Business Development. In April 2007, he was promoted to his current position as General Counsel, Secretary and Executive Vice President, Business Development. Mr. Melendrez has over 25 years of legal experience in the semiconductor and related industries and he received a B.A. from the University of Notre Dame, a J.D. from the University of San Francisco, and an M.B.A. from Pepperdine University. Stephen W. Michael joined us in September 1992 as our Vice President New Market Development. In July 1995, he was appointed Vice President Operations, and in May 2001, he was appointed to his current position of Vice President, Operations and Reliability & Quality Assurance. Prior to joining us, he was Vice President and General Manager, Analog and Custom Products with Catalyst Semiconductor. Prior to Catalyst Semiconductor, he served in various senior positions at GE Semiconductor, Intersil, Fairchild and National Semiconductor. Mr. Michael has over thirty years of semiconductor industry experience and holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of California at Davis. Levent Ozcolak joined us in 1985 as a Design Engineer. He held a variety of increasingly more senior engineering management positions prior to his promotion to Director of Engineering, Video and Imaging Division in 1998. He was appointed Director of Marketing, Video and Imaging Division in 1999, and Director of Marketing, Interface Products Division in 2003. He was promoted to General Manager of Interface Products Division in 2004, Division Vice President and General Manager of Interface Products in 2005, and to his current position of Vice President of Marketing, Interface Products in 2006. Mr. Ozcolak has over 20 years of product development experience in the semiconductor industry and holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an M.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of California at Los Angeles, as well as an M.B.A. from the University of Phoenix. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to a number of risks. Some of these risks are endemic to the high-technology industry and are the same or similar to those disclosed in our previous SEC filings, and some new risks may arise in the future. You should carefully consider all of these risks and the other information in this Annual Report before investing in our company. The fact that certain risks are endemic to the high-technology industry does not lessen the significance of these risks. As a result of these risks, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, and stockholders might lose some or all of their investment. IF WE FAIL TO DEVELOP AND INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS IN OUR CORE OR NEW MARKETS THAT MEET EVOLVING MARKET NEEDS OR WE ARE UNABLE TO GROW REVENUES, THEN OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY IMPACTED. The markets for our products are characterized by: • changing technologies; • evolving and competing industry standards; • changing customer requirements; • increasing product development costs; • long design-to-production cycles; • competitive solutions; 15 Table of Contents • fluctuations in capital equipment spending levels and/or deployment; • rapid adjustments in customer demand and inventory; • increasing functional integration; • increasing price pressure; • moderate to slow growth; • frequent product introductions and enhancements; • changing competitive landscape (consolidation, financial viability); and • finite market windows for product introductions. Our growth depends in part on our successful development of new products for our core markets. We must: (i) anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards; (ii) properly define and develop, on a timely basis, new products; (iii) gain access to and use technologies in a cost-effective manner; (iv) continue to expand our technical and design expertise; (v) timely introduce and cost-effectively manufacture new products; (vi) differentiate our products from our competitors’ offerings; and (vii) gain customer acceptance of our products. In addition, we must continue to have our products designed into our customers’ future products and maintain close working relationships with key customers to develop new products that meet their evolving needs. Moreover, we must respond to shifts in market demands, the trend towards increasing functional integration and other changes in a rapid and cost-effective manner. Migration from older products to newer products may result in volatility of earnings during periods of transition to new products. Products for communications applications are based on continually evolving industry standards and new technologies. Our ability to compete will depend in part on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these industry standards. The emergence of new standards could render our products incompatible with systems developed by major communications equipment manufacturers. As a result, we could be required to invest significant time, effort and expenses to develop and qualify new products to ensure compliance with industry standards. The process of developing and supporting new products is complex, expensive and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict and understand our customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends, our business may be harmed. In addition, we may make significant investments to modify new products according to input from one or more customers who then, in the end, may choose another competitor’s or an internal solution, or cancel the project. We may not be able to identify new product opportunities successfully, develop and bring to market new products, achieve design wins, ensure when and which design wins actually get released to production, or respond effectively to technological changes or product announcements by our competitors. In addition, we may not be successful in developing or using new technologies or may incorrectly anticipate market demand and develop products that achieve little or no market acceptance. Our pursuit of technological advances may require substantial time and expense and may ultimately prove unsuccessful. Failure in any of these areas may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO CONVERT A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR DESIGN WINS INTO ACTUAL REVENUE, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY IMPACTED. We have secured a significant number of design wins for new and existing products. Such design wins are necessary for revenue growth. However, many of our design wins may never generate revenues if their end-customer projects are unsuccessful in the market place or the end-customer terminates the project, which may occur for a variety of reasons. Mergers and consolidation among our customers may lead to termination of certain projects before the associated design win generates revenue. Additionally, some of our design wins are 16 Table of Contents with privately-held, early-stage companies that may fail to bring their product to market or gain market acceptance. If design wins do generate revenue, the time lag between the design win and meaningful revenue is typically in excess of eighteen months. If we fail to convert a significant portion of our design wins into substantial revenue, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY BECAUSE OF A NUMBER OF FACTORS, MANY OF WHICH ARE BEYOND OUR CONTROL. Our financial results may fluctuate significantly. Some of the factors that affect our financial results, many of which are difficult or impossible to control or predict, are: • our difficulty predicting revenues and ordering the correct mix of products from suppliers due to limited visibility provided by customers and channel partners coupled with a high number of orders placed for products to be shipped in the same quarter; • the reduction, rescheduling, cancellation or timing of orders by our customers and channel partners due to, among others, the following factors: • management of customer, subcontractor and/or channel inventory; • dependency on a single product with a single customer; • volatility of demand for equipment sold by our large customers, which in turn, introduces demand volatility for our products; • temporary disruption in customer demand as customers change or modify their complex subcontract manufacturing supply chain; • temporary disruption in customer demand due to technical issues with our chip or other components in their system; • the inability of our customers to obtain components from their other suppliers; and • disruption in the sales or distribution channels; • changes in sales and implementation cycles for our products; • the ability of our suppliers, customers and communications service providers to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures; • changes in the mix of products that our customers purchase; • risks associated with entering new markets, such as increased competition, should we decide to do so; • the announcement or introduction of products by our competitors; • loss of market share by our customers; • competitive pressures on selling prices or product availability; • pressures on selling prices overseas due to foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • erosion of average selling prices coupled with the inability to sell newer products with higher average selling prices, resulting in lower overall revenue and margins; • market and/or customer acceptance of our products; • consolidation among our competitors, our customers and/or our customers’ customers; • changes in our customers’ end user concentration or requirements; • loss of one or more major customers; 17 Table of Contents • significant changes in ordering pattern by major customers; • our or our channel partners’ ability to maintain and manage appropriate inventory levels; • the availability and cost of materials and services, including foundry, assembly and test capacity, needed by us from our foundries and suppliers; • if wafer fabrication or packaging and test suppliers discontinue or experience extended disruption of supply, we may incur increased costs to obtain alternative suppliers or investment in inventory to meet continuity of supply obligations to customers; • temporary disruptions in our or our customers’ supply chain due to natural disaster, fire, outbreak of communicable diseases, labor disputes, or civil unrest; • fluctuations in the manufacturing output, yields, and capacity of our suppliers; • fluctuation in suppliers’ capacity due to reorganization, relocation or shift in business focus; • problems, costs, or delays that we may face in shifting our products to smaller geometry process technologies and in achieving higher levels of design and device integration; • our ability to successfully introduce and transfer into production new products and/or integrate new technologies; • increase in manufacturing costs; • higher mask tooling costs associated with advanced technologies; • the amount and timing of our investment in research and development; • costs and business disruptions associated with shareholder or regulatory issues; • the timing and amount of employer payroll tax to be paid on our employees’ gains on stock options exercised; • increased costs and time associated with compliance with accounting rules or other regulatory requirements; • changes in accounting or other regulatory rules, such as the requirement to record expenses for stock-based compensation; • fluctuations in interest rates and/or market values of our marketable securities; • litigation costs associated with the defense of suits brought or complaints made against us; and • changes in or continuation of certain tax provisions. As a consequence, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict and prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in the future. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. THE GENERAL STATE OF THE U.S. AND GLOBAL ECONOMIES, AS WELL AS THE COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MARKET, MAY CONTINUE TO MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Periodic declines or fluctuations in corporate profits, lower capital equipment spending, the impact of conflicts throughout the world, terrorist acts, natural disasters, volatile energy costs, the outbreak of communicable diseases and other geopolitical factors have had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on the U.S. and global economies. Our revenue and profitability have generally followed market fluctuations of the 18 Table of Contents communications equipment industry. These market fluctuations have affected carrier capital equipment spending which in turn has affected the demand for our customers’ products, thus affecting our revenues and profitability. Communications service providers and equipment manufacturers continue to experience consolidation in their industries which may result in project delays or cancellations. Uncertainties in anticipated communications equipment spending levels or further consolidation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are unable to predict the strength or duration of current communications market conditions or effects of equipment manufacturer consolidation. If the sector does not improve measurably, or declines, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted. UTILIZATION OF ACQUIRED TECHNOLOGY. We have acquired and may in the future acquire intellectual property to accelerate our time to market for new products. Acquisitions of intellectual property may involve risks such as successful technical integration into new products, market acceptance of new products, and achievement of planned return on investment. The timely and efficient integration of acquired technology may be adversely impacted by inherent design deficiencies or application requirements. The potential failure of or delay in product introduction utilizing acquired intellectual property could lead to an impairment of capitalized intellectual property acquisition costs. COMPETITION IN THE MARKETS IN WHICH WE PARTICIPATE, OR MAY PARTICIPATE, MAY MAKE IT MORE DIFFICULT FOR US TO BE SUCCESSFUL. We compete against an established group of semiconductor companies that focus on similar markets. These competitors include LSI Corporation, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation, Integrated Device Technology Inc., Maxim Integrated Products Inc., Mindspeed Technologies Inc., PMC Sierra, Inc., NXP (formerly of Royal Philips Electronics), Texas Instruments Incorporated, TranSwitch Corporation and Vitesse Semiconductor Corporation. Additionally, we are facing competition from other established companies and start-up businesses that seek to enter the markets in which we participate. We have experienced increased competition at the design stage, where customers evaluate alternative solutions based on a number of factors, including price, performance, product features, technologies, and availability of long-term product supply and/or roadmap guarantee. Additionally, we experience, in some cases, severe pressure on pricing from some of our competitors or on-going cost reduction expectations from customers. Such circumstances may make some of our products unattractive due to price or performance measures and result in losing our design opportunities or causing a decrease in our revenue and margins. Also, competition from new companies in emerging economy countries with significant lower costs could affect our selling price and gross margins. IF OUR DISTRIBUTORS OR SALES REPRESENTATIVES STOP SELLING OR FAIL TO SUCCESSFULLY PROMOTE OUR PRODUCTS, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. We sell many of our products through two non-exclusive distributors and numerous sales representatives. Our non-exclusive distributors and sales representatives may carry our competitors’ products, which could adversely impact or limit sales of our products. Additionally, they could reduce or discontinue sales of our products or may not devote the resources necessary to sell our products in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect. Moreover, we depend on the continued viability and financial resources of these distributors and sales representatives, some of which are small organizations with limited working capital. In turn, these distributors and sales representatives are subject to general economic and semiconductor industry conditions. We believe that our success will continue to depend on these distributors and sales representatives. If some or all of our distributors and sales representatives experience financial difficulties, or otherwise become 19 Table of Contents unable or unwilling to promote and sell our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. WE DEPEND ON THIRD-PARTY FOUNDRIES TO MANUFACTURE OUR INTEGRATED CIRCUITS. ANY DISRUPTION IN OR LOSS OF THE FOUNDRIES’ CAPACITY TO MANUFACTURE OUR PRODUCTS SUBJECTS US TO A NUMBER OF RISKS, INCLUDING THE POTENTIAL FOR AN INADEQUATE SUPPLY OF PRODUCTS AND HIGHER MATERIALS COSTS. THESE RISKS MAY LEAD TO DELAYED PRODUCT DELIVERY OR INCREASED COSTS, WHICH COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication facility, or a foundry. Most of our products are based on complementary metal oxide semiconductor, or CMOS, processes. Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Ltd., or Chartered, located in Singapore, manufactures the majority of the CMOS wafers from which our products are manufactured. Chartered produces semiconductors for many other companies (many of which have greater requirements than us), and therefore we may not have access on a timely basis to sufficient capacity or certain process technologies. In addition, we rely on Chartered’s continued financial health and ability to continue to invest in smaller geometry manufacturing processes and foundries. Many of our new products are designed to take advantage of smaller geometry manufacturing processes. Due to the complexity and increased cost of migrating to smaller geometries, we may experience problems, which could result in design and production delays of our products. If such delays occur, our products may have delayed market acceptance or customers may select our competitors’ products during the design process. We do not have long-term wafer supply agreements with Chartered or our other foundries that would guarantee wafer quantities, prices, and delivery or lead times. Rather, the foundries manufacture our products on a purchase order basis. We provide Chartered and our other foundries with rolling forecasts of our production requirements. However, the ability of our foundries to provide wafers is limited by the foundries’ available capacity. In addition, we cannot be certain that we will continue to do business with Chartered or our other foundries on terms as favorable as our current terms. Significant risks associated with our reliance on third-party foundries include: • the lack of assured process technology and wafer supply; • financial and operating stability of the foundries; • limited control over delivery schedules; • limited manufacturing capacity of the foundries; • limited control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; and • potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. We could experience a substantial delay or interruption in the shipment of our products or an increase in our costs due to any of the following: • a manufacturing disruption experienced by foundries utilized by us or sudden reduction or elimination of any existing source or sources of semiconductor manufacturing materials or processes, which might include the potential closure, change of ownership, change of management or consolidation by one of our foundries; • extended time required to identify, qualify and transfer to alternative manufacturing sources for existing or new products; 20 Table of Contents • failure of our foundries to obtain raw materials and equipment; • financial and operating stability of the foundries or any of their suppliers; • acts of terrorism or civil unrest or an unanticipated disruption due to communicable diseases, political instability, natural disasters; and • a sudden, sharp increase in demand for semiconductor devices, which could strain the foundries’ manufacturing resources and cause delays in manufacturing and shipment of our products. IF OUR FOUNDRIES DISCONTINUE OR LIMIT THE AVAILABILITY OF THE MANUFACTURING PROCESSES NEEDED TO MEET OUR DEMANDS OR ARE UNABLE TO PROVIDE THE TECHNOLOGIES NEEDED TO MANUFACTURE OUR PRODUCTS, WE MAY FACE PRODUCTION DELAYS, WHICH COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our wafer requirements represent a small portion of the total production of the foundries that manufacture our products. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a foundry may cease production of a wafer fabrication process required by us. Additionally, we cannot be certain that our foundries will continue to devote resources to the production of our products or continue to advance the process design technologies on which the manufacturing of our products are based. Each of these events could increase our costs and harm our ability to deliver our products on time, or force us to terminate affected products, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR DEPENDENCE ON THIRD-PARTY SUBCONTRACTORS TO ASSEMBLE AND TEST OUR PRODUCTS SUBJECTS US TO A NUMBER OF RISKS, INCLUDING THE POTENTIAL FOR AN INADEQUATE SUPPLY OF PRODUCTS AND HIGHER MATERIALS COSTS. THESE RISKS MAY LEAD TO DELAYED PRODUCT DELIVERY OR INCREASED COSTS, WHICH COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We depend on independent subcontractors in Asia for all of the assembly and the majority of the testing of our products. Our reliance on these subcontractors involves the following risks: • our reduced control over manufacturing yields, production schedules and product quality; • the potential closure, change of ownership, change in business conditions or relationships, change of management or consolidation by one or more of our subcontractors; • long-term financial stability of our subcontractors and their ability to invest in new capabilities and/or expand capacity to meet increasing demand; • disruption of services due to the outbreak of communicable diseases, acts of terrorism, natural disasters, labor disputes, or civil unrest; • disruption of manufacturing or test services due to relocation of subcontractor manufacturing facilities; • subcontractors imposing higher minimum order quantities for substrates; • failure of our subcontractors to obtain raw materials and equipment; • increasing cost of raw materials resulting in higher package costs; • entry into “take-or-pay” agreements; • additional costs to qualify new local assembly subcontractors for prototypes; • difficulties in selecting, qualifying and integrating new subcontractors; • reallocation or limited manufacturing capacity of the subcontractors; 21 Table of Contents • a sudden, sharp increase in demand for semiconductor devices, which could strain our subcontractor’s manufacturing resources and cause delays in manufacturing and shipment of our products; • limited warranties from our subcontractors for products assembled and tested for us; • possible unavailability of qualified assembly or test services; • the subcontractors may cease production on a specific package type used to assemble product required by us and the possible inability to obtain an alternate source to supply the package; • potential increases in assembly and test costs; and • third-party subcontractors’ abilities to transition to smaller package types and to new package compositions. These risks may lead to shipment delays and supply constraints of our products or increased cost for the finished products, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. TO SECURE FOUNDRY CAPACITY, WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO ENTER INTO FINANCIAL AND OTHER ARRANGEMENTS WITH FOUNDRIES, WHICH COULD RESULT IN THE DILUTION OF OUR EARNINGS OR OTHERWISE HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS. Allocation of a foundry’s manufacturing capacity may be influenced by a foundry customer’s size, the existence of a long-term agreement with the foundry or other commitments. To address foundry capacity constraints, we and other semiconductor companies that rely on third-party foundries have utilized various arrangements, including equity investments in or loans to foundries in exchange for guaranteed production capacity, joint ventures to own and operate foundries or “take or pay” contracts that commit a company to purchase specified quantities of wafers over extended periods. While we are not currently a party to any of these arrangements, we may decide to enter into these arrangements in the future. We cannot be sure, however, that these arrangements will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Any of these arrangements could require us to commit substantial capital and, accordingly, could require us to reduce our cash holdings, incur additional debt or secure equity financing. This could result in the dilution of our earnings or the ownership of our stockholders or otherwise harm our operating results. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient foundry capacity in the future pursuant to such arrangements. OUR RELIANCE ON FOREIGN SUPPLIERS EXPOSES US TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS, ANY OF WHICH COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We use semiconductor wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors throughout Asia to manufacture a significant portion of our products. Our dependence on these subcontractors involves the following risks: • disruption of services due to political, civil, labor, and economic instability; • disruption of services due to natural disasters or outbreak of communicable diseases; • disruption of transportation to and from Asia; • embargoes or other regulatory limitations affecting the availability of raw materials, equipment or changes in tax laws, tariffs and freight rates; and services; • compliance with local or international regulatory requirements. These risks may lead to delays in product delivery or increased costs, either of which could harm our profitability and customer relationships, thereby materially and adversely impacting our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents WE DEPEND IN PART ON THE CONTINUED SERVICE OF OUR KEY ENGINEERING AND MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL AND OUR ABILITY TO IDENTIFY, HIRE, INCENTIVIZE AND RETAIN QUALIFIED PERSONNEL. IF WE LOSE KEY EMPLOYEES OR FAIL TO IDENTIFY, HIRE, INCENTIVIZE AND RETAIN THESE INDIVIDUALS, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY IMPACTED. Our future success depends, in part, on the continued service of our key design engineering, technical, sales, marketing and executive personnel and our ability to identify, hire, incentivize and retain other qualified personnel. In the future, we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management and technical personnel necessary for the management of our business. Competition for skilled employees having specialized technical capabilities and industry-specific expertise continues to be a considerable risk inherent in the markets in which we compete. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price and the ability to offer equity compensation to as many key employees or in amounts consistent with past practices, as a result of regulations regarding the expensing of options, may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted stock options. The failure to retain and recruit, as necessary, key design engineers, technical, sales, marketing and executive personnel could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD VARY AS A RESULT OF THE METHODS, ESTIMATES, AND JUDGMENTS WE USE IN APPLYING OUR ACCOUNTING POLICIES. The methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K). Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and changes in rulemaking by the regulatory bodies; and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. In particular, the calculation of stock-based compensation expense under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R (“SFAS 123R”), “Share-Based Payment,” requires us to use valuation methodologies (which were not developed for use in valuing employee stock options) and a number of assumptions, estimates, and conclusions regarding matters such as expected forfeitures, expected volatility of our share price, the expected dividend rate with respect to our common stock, and the exercise behavior of our employees. Furthermore, there are no means, under applicable accounting principles, to compare and adjust our expense if and when we learn about additional information that may affect the estimates that we previously made, with the exception of changes in expected forfeitures of share-based awards. Factors may arise over time that lead us to change our estimates and assumptions with respect to future share-based compensation arrangements, resulting in variability in our share-based compensation expense over time. Changes in forecasted share-based compensation expense could impact our gross margin percentage; research and development expense; selling, general and administrative expense; and our tax rate. CHANGES IN OUR EFFECTIVE TAX RATE MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; • the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; 23 Table of Contents • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; • changes in available tax credits; • changes in share-based compensation expense; • changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and/or • the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact net income for future periods. In addition, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other tax authorities regularly examine our income tax returns. Our results of operations could be adversely impacted if these assessments or any other assessments resulting from the examination of our income tax returns by the IRS or other taxing authorities are not resolved in our favor. OUR ENGAGEMENT WITH FOREIGN CUSTOMERS COULD CAUSE FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR OPERATING RESULTS, WHICH COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. International sales have accounted for, and will likely continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues, which subjects us to the following risks: • changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs and other barriers; • timing and availability of export or import licenses; • disruption of services due to political, civil, labor, and economic instability; • disruption of services due to natural disasters outside the United States; • disruptions to customer operations outside the United States due to the outbreak of communicable diseases; • difficulties in accounts receivable collections; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary and branch operations; • difficulties in managing sales channel partners; • difficulties in obtaining governmental approvals for communications and other products; • limited intellectual property protection; • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • the burden of complying with foreign laws and treaties; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. In addition, because sales of our products have been denominated primarily in U.S. dollars, increases in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared with local currencies could make our products more expensive to customers in the local currency of a particular country resulting in pricing pressures on our products. Increased international activity in the future may result in foreign currency denominated sales. Furthermore, because some of our customers’ purchase orders and agreements are governed by foreign laws, we may be limited in our ability, or it may be too costly for us, to enforce our rights under these agreements and to collect damages, if awarded. 24 Table of Contents THE COMPLEXITY OF OUR PRODUCTS MAY LEAD TO ERRORS, DEFECTS AND BUGS, WHICH COULD SUBJECT US TO SIGNIFICANT COSTS OR DAMAGES AND ADVERSELY AFFECT MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR PRODUCTS. Although we, our customers and our suppliers rigorously test our products, they may contain undetected errors, weaknesses, defects or bugs when first introduced or as new versions are released. If any of our products contain production defects, reliability, quality or compatibility problems that are significant to our customers, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to continue to buy our products, which could adversely affect our ability to retain and attract new customers. In addition, these defects or bugs could interrupt or delay sales of affected products, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If defects or bugs are discovered after commencement of commercial production of a new product, we may be required to make significant expenditures of capital and other resources to resolve the problems. This could result in significant additional development costs and the diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts. We could also incur significant costs to repair or replace defective products. These costs or damages could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. BECAUSE OUR COMMUNICATIONS INTEGRATED CIRCUITS TYPICALLY HAVE LENGTHY SALES CYCLES, WE MAY EXPERIENCE SUBSTANTIAL DELAYS BETWEEN INCURRING EXPENSES RELATED TO PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND THE REVENUE DERIVED FROM THESE PRODUCTS. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from selling integrated circuits to communications equipment vendors. Due to their product development cycle, we have typically experienced at least an eighteen-month time lapse between our initial contact with a customer and realizing volume shipments. We first work with customers to achieve a design win, which may take nine months or longer. Our customers then complete their design, test and evaluation process and begin to ramp-up production, a period which typically lasts an additional nine months. The customers of communications equipment manufacturers may also require a period of time for testing and evaluation, which may cause further delays. As a result, a significant period of time may elapse between our research and development efforts and our realization of revenue, if any, from volume purchasing of our communications products by our customers. Due to the length of the communications equipment vendors’ product development cycle, the risks of project cancellation by our customers, price erosion or volume reduction are present for an extended period of time. OUR PENDING MERGER WITH SIPEX CORPORATION IS SUBJECT TO NUMEROUS RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES. Completion of the pending merger with Sipex is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. The merger is subject to conditions beyond our and Sipex’s control, including regulatory and stockholder approvals. We and Sipex may be unable to obtain the required approvals in a timely manner or at all. If the merger is not completed, then the price of our common stock may decline, costs related to the merger, such as financial advisory, legal, accounting and printing fees, must be paid (even if the merger is not completed) and we would fail to realize any of the strategic benefits expected to result form the merger. In addition, under specified circumstances, we may be required to pay Sipex a termination fee of $6.5 million in connection with the termination of the merger agreement. Uncertainty regarding the completion of the merger may cause customers, suppliers and channel partners such as Future Electronics, Inc. to delay or defer decisions concerning our products, which could negatively impact our business. In addition, diversion of management focus and resources from the day-to-day operation of the business to matters relating to the merger could have a material adverse effect on our business. Current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with our company. This may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing, operations and technical personnel. 25 Table of Contents If the merger is completed, we will continue to face risks associated with the merger, including challenges relating to the integration of the businesses and operations of Exar and Sipex, and challenges in retaining employees. Also, Future Electronics will become a related party of Exar owning approximately 15% of the outstanding shares at the close of the merger and as the largest distributor accounting for approximately 33% of net sales of the combined company. In addition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits or synergies of the merger to the extent, or in the timeframe, anticipated. WE HAVE MADE AND IN THE FUTURE MAY MAKE ACQUISITIONS AND SIGNIFICANT STRATEGIC EQUITY INVESTMENTS, WHICH MAY INVOLVE A NUMBER OF RISKS. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ADDRESS THESE RISKS SUCCESSFULLY, SUCH ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENTS COULD HAVE A MATERIALLY ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We have undertaken a number of strategic acquisitions and investments in the past and may do so from time to time in the future. The risks involved with these acquisitions and investments include: • the possibility that we may not receive a favorable return on our investment or incur losses from our investment, or the original investment may become impaired; • failure to satisfy or set effective strategic objectives; • our assumption of known or unknown liabilities or other unanticipated events or circumstances; and • the diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business. Additional risks involved with acquisitions include: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company or its assets; • difficulties in supporting acquired products or technologies; • difficulties or delays in the transfer of manufacturing flows and supply chains of products of acquired businesses; • failure to retain key personnel; • unexpected capital equipment outlays and related expenses; • difficulties in entering markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets may have stronger market positions; • insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; • under-performance problems with an acquired company; • issuance of common stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • recording of goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to periodic impairment testing and potential impairment charges against our future earnings; • incurring amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; • the opportunity cost associated with committing capital in such investments; • incurring large and immediate write-offs; and • becoming subject to litigation. Risks involved with strategic equity investments include: • the possibility of litigation resulting from these types of investments; 26 Table of Contents • the possibility that we may not receive early access to disruptive technology; • the possibility that we may not receive a financial return on our investments or incur losses from these investments; • a changed or poorly executed strategic plan; and • the opportunity cost associated with committing capital in such investments. We may not be able to address these risks successfully without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems. Any delays or other such operations or financial problems could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR BACKLOG MAY NOT RESULT IN FUTURE REVENUE. Due to the possibility of customer changes in delivery schedules and quantities actually purchased, cancellation of orders, distributor returns or price reductions, our backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. We may not be able to meet our expected revenue levels or results of operations if there is a reduction in our order backlog during any particular period and we are unable to replace those sales during the same period. FIXED OPERATING EXPENSES AND OUR PRACTICE OF ORDERING MATERIALS IN ANTICIPATION OF FUTURE CUSTOMER DEMAND COULD MAKE IT DIFFICULT FOR US TO RESPOND EFFECTIVELY TO SUDDEN SWINGS IN DEMAND AND RESULT IN HIGHER THAN EXPECTED COSTS AND EXCESS INVENTORY. SUCH SUDDEN SWINGS IN DEMAND COULD THEREFORE HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short to medium term, and therefore, we have limited ability to reduce expenses quickly and sufficiently in response to any revenue shortfall. In addition, we typically plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. From time to time, in response to anticipated long lead times to obtain inventory and materials from our outside suppliers and foundries, we may order materials in advance of anticipated customer demand. This advance ordering may result in excess inventory levels or unanticipated inventory write-downs if expected orders fail to materialize. This incremental cost could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, WHICH COULD HARM OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION. Our ability to compete is affected by our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, mask work registrations, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and non-disclosure and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite these efforts, we may be unable to protect our proprietary information. Such intellectual property rights may not be recognized or if recognized, it may not be commercially feasible to enforce. Moreover, we cannot be certain that our competitors will not independently develop technology that is substantially similar or superior to our technology. More specifically, our pending patent applications or any future applications may not be approved, and any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties. If challenged, our patents may be found to be invalid or unenforceable, and the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar products or processes, duplicate our products or processes or design around any patents that may be issued to us. 27 Table of Contents WE COULD BE REQUIRED TO PAY SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGES OR COULD BE SUBJECT TO VARIOUS EQUITABLE REMEDIES IF IT WERE PROVEN THAT WE INFRINGED THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF OTHERS. As a general matter, the semiconductor industry is characterized by substantial litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. If a third party were to prove that our technology infringed its intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay substantial damages for past infringement and could be required to pay license fees or royalties on future sales of our products. If we were required to pay such license fees whenever we sold our products, such fees could exceed our revenue. In addition, if it were proven that we willfully infringed a third party’s proprietary rights, we could be held liable for three times the amount of the damages that we would otherwise have to pay. Such intellectual property litigation could also require us to: • stop selling, incorporating or using our products that use the infringed intellectual property; • obtain a license to make, sell or use the relevant technology from the owner of the infringed intellectual property, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; and/or • redesign our products so as not to use the infringed intellectual property, which may not be technically or commercially feasible. Furthermore, the defense of infringement claims and lawsuits, regardless of their outcome, would likely be expensive and could require a significant portion of management’s time. In addition, rather than litigating an infringement matter, we may determine that it is in our best interests to settle the matter. Terms of a settlement may include the payment of damages and our agreement to license technology in exchange for a license fee and ongoing royalties. These fees could be substantial. If we were required to pay damages or otherwise became subject to such equitable remedies, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. Similarly, if we were required to pay license fees to third parties based on a successful infringement claim brought against us, such fees could exceed our revenue. OUR STOCK PRICE IS VOLATILE. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly to date. In the future, the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to: • our anticipated or actual operating results; • announcements or introductions of new products by us or our competitors; • technological innovations by us or our competitors; • product delays or setbacks by us, our customers or our competitors; • potential supply disruptions; • sales channel interruptions; • concentration of sales among a small number of customers; • conditions in the communications and semiconductor markets; • the commencement and/or results of litigation; • changes in estimates of our performance by securities analysts; • decreases in the value of our investments, thereby requiring an asset impairment charge against earnings; • repurchasing shares of our common stock; • announcements of merger or acquisition transactions; • the impact of expensing stock options; and/or 28 Table of Contents • general global economic and market conditions. In the past, securities and class action litigation has been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. We may be the target of one or more of these class action suits, which could result in significant costs and divert management’s attention, thereby harming our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, at times the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many high technology companies, including semiconductor companies, and that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Any such fluctuations may harm the market price of our common stock. EARTHQUAKES AND OTHER NATURAL DISASTERS MAY DAMAGE OUR FACILITIES OR THOSE OF OUR SUPPLIERS AND CUSTOMERS. Our corporate headquarters in Fremont, California are located near major earthquake faults that have experienced seismic activity. In addition, some of our customers and suppliers are located near fault lines. In the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster near our headquarters, our operations could be disrupted. Similarly, a major earthquake or other natural disaster affecting one or more of our major customers or suppliers could adversely impact the operations of those affected, which could disrupt the supply of our products and harm our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 