ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be adversely affected. You should refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the information set forth in “Forward-Looking Statements,” and our consolidated financial statements herein. The information specifically set forth under “Forward-Looking Statements” constitutes additional risks, which, if they actually occur, could adversely affect our business as well. Our bid to CMS for our PDP is based on actuarial assumptions, which if incorrect, could materially affect our operating results. We create our benefit plans based on actuarial assumptions that are used in our bid process. If these assumptions are incorrect, it could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial position and cash flows. In addition, we had 43,600 Enhanced Plan members at December 31, 2007. Approximately 14,000 of these former Enhanced Plan members are now enrolled in our Basic Plan at January 1, 2008. Our Basic Plan benefits are significantly lower and we expect many of these members to switch plans. If these members do not switch plans and their higher utilization is not offset by the decrease in benefits, it may have a materially adverse effect on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. 17 Table of Contents CMS performs a final reconciliation of the results of the PDP program annually during the third quarter of the subsequent year. If the results of this final reconciliation are not what we have estimated, the actual results may have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. The PDP program includes many complicated features including estimating the gain/loss share with CMS and reconciling with other plans. If the actual amounts turn out to be materially different from our estimates it could have a materially adverse impact on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. In addition, if the final reconciliation with CMS is materially different from what we have estimated, then it could have a materially adverse impact on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. The phase out of the Social HMO payment methodology for our Medicare Advantage program will result in a reduced premium payment per member per month from CMS. The Social HMO program was phased out on December 31, 2007. If we are unable to compensate for this decrease in revenues by reducing benefits and costs, our operating results could be materially affected. Additionally, each year our bid to CMS is based on actuarial assumptions, which if incorrect, could materially affect our operating results. Medicare revenues from CMS related to our Medicare Advantage HMO accounted for approximately 31.0% of our 2007 consolidated revenues. Effective January 2004, CMS adopted a new risk adjustment payment methodology for Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in managed care programs, including the Social HMO. For Social HMO members, in addition to the standard risk adjustment, the new methodology includes a frailty adjuster that uses measures of functional impairment to predict expenditures. CMS transitioned to the new payment methodology on a graduated basis from 2004 through 2007 and we are completely transitioned to the new methodology effective January 1, 2008. In 2005 and 2006, we were paid 70% and 50%, based on the previous payment methodology and 30% and 50% based on the new methodology, respectively. For 2007, we were paid 25% based on the previous payment methodology and 75% based on the new methodology. For 2008, we are fully transitioned to a risk payment methodology; however, we have been notified by CMS that there will continue to be a frailty factor component to our payment through 2010. The frailty factor will be a component of the risk score calculation for former Social HMO plans by using 75%, 50% and 25% of the current frailty factor for plan years 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. We create our benefit plans based on actuarial assumptions that are used in our bid process. If these assumptions are incorrect, it could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial position and cash flows. In addition, if we receive a decrease in the amount we receive from CMS per member or future rate increases are less than our cost increases, we would need to adjust our benefits and costs to maintain our margins. If we are unable to reduce the benefits we offer, our profit margins will decrease and it may have a materially adverse effect on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. As a health care company, we and our health care providers may be subject to increased malpractice costs and claims, which could adversely affect our business. We and our health care providers are subject to malpractice claims. We require our health care providers to maintain malpractice coverage and we set up reserves with respect to potential malpractice claims; however, there may be in the future significant malpractice liabilities for which we or independently contracted providers do not have adequate reserves or insurance coverage. In addition, insurance coverage may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all and punitive damage awards are generally not covered by insurance. If we fail to effectively manage our admissions to non-contracted facilities or there is insufficient capacity at contracted facilities, our operating results may be adversely affected. In 2006, our primary southern Nevada contracted hospital organization was comprised of Sunrise Hospital and Medical Center, Mountain View Hospital and Southern Hills Hospital and Medical Center. These facilities are 18 Table of Contents owned by HCA. Our longstanding contract with HCA expired on December 31, 2006. During 2007, we negotiated a discount to billed charges with HCA for our commercial members based on certain prompt pay terms that were retroactive to January 1, 2007; however, these charges are still substantially higher than our current commercial rates with our contracted hospitals. We contract with ten other southern Nevada hospitals that have committed to providing sufficient capacity to accommodate our acute care needs. The contracts with these hospitals are based on a fixed per diem rate structure and in some circumstances are higher than the previous HCA contracted rates. We have implemented several strategies to limit the number of admissions to HCA. These strategies include, but are not limited to, continuing to staff the HCA hospitals with a hospitalist to monitor any emergency admissions and within coverage constraints, not authorizing any non-emergency procedures at HCA. In 2008, we will continue to pay substantially higher rates for services rendered to our commercial members at an HCA hospital. We receive a significant discount to full-billed charges for services rendered to Medicare and Medicaid members at an HCA hospital because they will be required to bill us at the Medicare and Medicaid fee schedule. While our strategy to limit the number of admissions to HCA was successful during 2007, failing to continue to manage the number of admissions at HCA could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial position and cash flows. The ten southern Nevada facilities that comprise our primary contracted hospitals have committed to providing sufficient capacity to accommodate our acute care needs. We believe that there is adequate capacity at those facilities for our membership but there may be times that this capacity is inadequate and we would be required to utilize non-contracted facilities at substantially higher rates. If we were required to utilize non-contracted facilities, it could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. If the real estate market continues to deteriorate, our investments in trust deed mortgage notes or real estate joint ventures could be materially impaired. Our investments in trust deed mortgage notes are with numerous independent borrowers and are secured by real estate in several states. The loan to value ratios for these investments were typically based on appraisals or other market data obtained at the time of loan origination; however, the current deterioration of the real estate market has caused the value of the underlying assets of several of our trust deed mortgage notes to significantly decrease. Several of our trust deed mortgage notes are in default and in various stages of foreclosure. We have evaluated each trust deed mortgage note to determine if impairment exists. All trust deed mortgage notes determined to be impaired have been written down to their impaired value. At December 31, 2007, we had $33.6 million, net of allowance, in investments in trust deed mortgage notes. We also have three remaining real estate joint ventures. the first is raw land in southern California, the second is a high rise condominium located near the Las Vegas strip and the third is raw land in West Jordan, Utah. These joint ventures have been written down to their impaired value, if impaired. At December 31, 2007, we had $12.9 million in investments in real estate joint ventures. If the real estate market continues to deteriorate, it could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. If we fail to qualify for the Nevada home office tax credit, our premium tax costs will increase. Under existing Nevada law, a 50% premium tax credit is generally available to HMOs and insurers that own and substantially occupy home offices or regional home offices within Nevada. In connection with the settlement of a prior dispute concerning the premium tax credit, the Nevada Division of Insurance acknowledged in November 1993 that our HMO and insurance subsidiaries met the statutory requirements to qualify for this tax credit. We intend to take all necessary steps to continue to comply with these requirements. However, the elimination or reduction of the premium tax credit, or our failure to qualify for the premium tax credit, would substantially increase our premium tax burden, and our operating results, financial position and cash flows would be materially adversely impacted. Our ability to obtain and maintain favorable group benefit agreements with employer groups affects our profitability. Our ability to obtain and maintain favorable group benefit agreements with employer groups affects our profitability. The agreements are generally renewable on an annual basis but are subject to termination on 60 days prior notice. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, our five largest HMO employer groups were, in the aggregate, responsible for less than 10% of our total revenues; however, the loss of one or more of the larger employer groups 19 Table of Contents could, if not replaced with similar membership, have a material adverse effect upon our business. We have generally been successful in retaining these employer groups in Nevada, although we did have three large employer groups, representing approximately 11,000 members terminate coverage effective January 1, 2007. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our agreements with our employer groups in the future or that we will not experience a decline in enrollment within our employer groups. As a health care company, we and our health care providers may be subject to increased malpractice costs and claims, which could adversely affect our business. We and our health care providers are subject to malpractice claims. We require our health care providers to maintain malpractice insurance and we set up reserves with respect to potential malpractice claims; however, there may be in the future significant malpractice liabilities for which we do not have adequate reserves or insurance coverage. In addition, insurance coverage may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all and punitive damage awards are generally not covered by insurance. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and enhance our information systems. Our information systems are a vital and integral part of our operations. We depend on our information systems to enable us to bill and collect premium revenues, process and pay claims and other operating expenses, and provide effective and efficient services to our customers including the delivery of healthcare services using an electronic medical record. We also depend on our information systems to provide us with accurate and complete data to enable us to adequately price our products and services and report our operating results. We are required to commit significant ongoing resources to maintain and enhance our existing information systems as well as develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in technologies, industry practices, regulatory standards and changing customer preferences. We are also dependent on many third-party vendors for our information system applications and infrastructure. We cannot provide assurance that these vendors will be able to maintain their services without interruption or errors, which if not timely corrected, could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial position and cash flows. If the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable, or if we fail to maintain effectively our information systems and data integrity, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty in attracting new customers, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have customer and physician and other health care provider disputes, have regulatory problems, have increases in operating expenses or suffer other material adverse consequences. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our major competition is from self-funded employer plans, PPO products, other HMOs and traditional indemnity carriers, such as CIGNA, Aetna and Wellpoint. Many of our competitors have substantially larger total enrollments, greater financial resources, broader out-of-area networks, and offer a wider range of products. Additional competitors with greater financial resources may enter our markets in the future. We believe that the most important competitive factors are the delivery of reasonably priced, quality medical benefits to members and the adequacy and availability of health care delivery services and facilities. We depend on a large local PPO network and flexible benefit plans to attract new members. Competitive pressures and other factors may result in reduced membership levels. We believe any reductions in our membership levels that are not compensated by reductions in operating expenses could materially affect our business and operating results, financial position and cash flows. The majority of our business is in southern Nevada and a significant prolonged economic recession would adversely affect our operating results. All of our HMO and POS and the majority of our PPO businesses are conducted in the state of Nevada, primarily in southern Nevada. We have benefited from the economic and population growth experienced by the state, especially in southern Nevada, over the past several years. The state’s low tax structure is attractive to businesses and retirees, which presents growth opportunities for our Commercial, Medicare Advantage and PDP plans. Southern Nevada is 20 Table of Contents facing infrastructure, water, affordable housing and other issues, which may dampen future economic and population growth. We are at risk of incurring material adverse operating results should the state and especially if southern Nevada experiences a significant prolonged economic recession. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by understatements in our actual liabilities caused by understatements in our actuarial estimates of incurred but not reported health care claims. We estimate the amount of our reserves for incurred but not reported (IBNR) claims primarily using standard actuarial methodologies based upon historical data. These methodologies include, among other factors, the average interval between the date services are rendered and the date claims are received and/or paid, denied claims activity, disputed claims activity, utilization, seasonality patterns and changes in membership. The estimates for submitted claims and IBNR claims liabilities are made on an accrual basis and adjusted in future periods as required. These estimates could understate or overstate our actual liability for claims and benefits payable. For example, during 2007, our actuarially determined best estimate of the liability recorded at December 31, 2006 decreased approximately $31.4 million. This is compared to a decrease of approximately $15.9 million in the liability recorded at December 31, 2005 during 2006. Any increases to prior estimates could adversely affect results of operations in future periods. In addition, the premium pricing of our health care plans takes into consideration past historical cost trends. If our actual liability for claims and benefits are higher than our prior recorded estimates, our business and operating results in future periods could be adversely impacted. Our failure to comply with corporate practice of medicine laws in states in which we operate could result in our being unable to practice medicine in that state and possibly lead to penalties and/or higher medical expenses. Under the corporate practice of medicine doctrine, in most states, business organizations, other than those authorized to do so, are prohibited from providing, or holding themselves out as providers of, medical care. Some states, including Nevada, exempt HMOs from this doctrine. The laws relating to this doctrine are subject to numerous conflicting interpretations and there can be no assurance that, given the varying and uncertain interpretations of these laws, we would be found in compliance with these laws in all states. A determination that our medical provider subsidiary, SMA, is not exempt and is not in compliance with applicable corporate practice of medicine laws in Nevada could result in SMA being unable to practice medicine in Nevada and possibly lead to penalties and/or higher medical expenses. At December 31, 2007, 74% of our southern Nevada HMO health care members chose one of our SMA physicians as their primary care provider. A determination that SMA is not in compliance with applicable corporate practice of medicine laws in Nevada could require that we divest our ownership interest in or dissolve SMA. Alternatively, we may be required to expand our network of independent contracted providers, all of which could lead to a disruption in our provider network, member dissatisfaction and ultimately higher medical expenses for our HMO and health care insurance subsidiaries. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and other attacks, acts of war or military actions, such as military actions in Iraq or elsewhere, may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The attacks of September 11, 2001 contributed to major instability in the United States and other financial markets. These terrorist attacks, the military response and future developments, or other military actions such as the military actions in Iraq or elsewhere, may adversely affect prevailing economic conditions and the insurance and reinsurance markets. Since a high percentage of our business is concentrated in southern Nevada, these developments, depending on their magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our business is subject to substantial government regulation and the impact of this regulation may increase our exposure to lawsuits and/or penalties or other regulatory actions for non-compliance or may otherwise adversely affect our business. 21 Table of Contents The health care industry in general, and HMOs and health insurance companies in particular, are subject to substantial federal and state government regulation. These regulations, which may increase our exposure to lawsuits and/or penalties or other regulatory actions for non-compliance, include, but are not limited to: cash reserves; minimum net worth; solvency standards; licensing requirements; approval of policy language and benefits; claims payment practices; mandatory products and benefits; provider compensation arrangements; patient confidentiality; premium rates; changes of control and related party transaction approval requirements; medical management tools; dividend payments; investment and risk restrictions; and periodic examinations by state and federal agencies. As a result, a portion of our HMOs’ and insurance companies’ cash is essentially restricted by various state regulatory or other requirements limiting certain of our subsidiaries’ cash to use within their current operations. State and federal government authorities are continually considering changes to laws and regulations that may affect us. Additionally, legislators in the states in which we operate continue to face pressure to cut back services and programs in ways that could adversely affect us. Many states in which we operate are currently considering regulations relating to mandatory benefits, provider compensation, disclosure and composition of physician networks. If such regulations were adopted by any of the states in which we operate, our business could be materially adversely affected. As a result of the continued escalation of health care costs and the inability of many individuals to obtain health care insurance, numerous proposals relating to health care reform have been or may be introduced in the United States Congress and state legislatures. Any proposals affecting underwriting practices, limiting rate increases, requiring new or additional benefits or affecting contracting arrangements (including proposals to require HMOs and PPOs to accept any health care providers willing to abide by an HMO’s or PPO’s contract terms), may make it more difficult for us to control medical costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition to applicable laws and regulations, we are subject to various audits, investigations and enforcement actions. These include possible government actions relating to ERISA, which regulates insured and self-insured health coverage plans offered by employers; FEHBP; CMS, which regulates Medicare and Medicaid programs; federal and state fraud and abuse laws; and laws relating to utilization management and the delivery of health care and the timeliness of payment or reimbursement. Any such government action could result in the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including exclusion from participation in government programs. In addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation, audit results or sanctions could negatively affect our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services or retain current business. Our forecasts and forward-looking statements are based on assumptions and subject to uncertainties and actual results may be significantly different from those forecasts. We periodically in press releases, conference calls, investor conferences and otherwise, issue forecasts or other forward-looking statements regarding our future results, including estimated revenues, earnings per share and other financial metrics. We base these forecasts on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable and prudent. However, the use of assumptions necessarily entails the risk that such assumptions may not be accurate. Actual results could be significantly different than the forecasted results as conditions and the occurrence of events may be different than what was assumed. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our actual results will be consistent with the forecasted statements or that there will be no significant variation. We may not realize the total amount of the net sales proceeds from our sale of the workers’ compensation insurance operations. Effective March 31, 2004, we sold our workers’ compensation insurance subsidiaries, consisting of California Indemnity and its wholly-owned insurance subsidiaries. The sales proceeds included a note receivable, which is payable in 2010 and is subject to adjustment based upon the loss and allocated loss adjustment expense development from the closing date through December 31, 2009. Any adjustments due to adverse loss and allocated loss adjustment expense development would be included in continuing operations. Factors such as reinsurers failing to honor their obligations to the workers’ compensation subsidiaries, economic recessions and the resulting higher unemployment rates, over utilization of medical treatments, and the effect of new legislation or regulations could 22 Table of Contents affect the subsidiaries’ loss and allocated loss adjustment expense development. Our sold workers’ compensation insurance subsidiaries had net adverse loss development occur in each of the past years 1999 to 2004 ranging from $8.7 million to $24.0 million. At December 31, 2004, based on actuarially determined reserve analyses, we established a valuation allowance of $15.0 million on the note receivable. There was no change to the valuation allowance in 2005, 2006 and 2007. It should be noted that in January 2007 we received a confirmation request from the acquiring company’s auditors, which stated that they are carrying their note payable to Sierra at an amount that is lower than our receivable balance. There is no single correct actuarial method to project workers’ compensation insurance reserves. While we believe that our actuary’s analyses are reasonable and appropriate, there is no assurance that an independent arbitrator will agree with our actuary’s findings when the note receivable is settled in 2010. If an independent arbitrator does not agree with our actuary’s findings, the amount collected on our note receivable could be materially adversely affected. In addition, effective with the close of the sale, the workers’ compensation claims were out-sourced to an independent third party claims administrator (TPA). Part of the TPA’s compensation is subject to satisfactory adherence to certain agreed upon claims administration processes and procedures. While we will audit the claims handling performance of the TPA, we cannot be certain that all of the claims will be administered in the most cost effective manner, which could result in adverse loss development. There is no assurance that we will actually realize or be able to collect the note receivable, as adjusted. We are obligated to perform certain services in connection with the sale of the workers’ compensation insurance operations and the accrual for the estimated contractual funding shortfall may be insufficient, which could result in a material adverse effect on our operating results. The sale of the workers’ compensation insurance operations requires us to perform, be responsible for the performance of, or be financially obligated to pay for, certain transition services through December 31, 2009. This includes certain administrative functions, processing policy transactions, premium collections and other services related to insurance operations. We received a limited amount of funds to perform these services from Cal Indemnity or its successor and we accrued additional liabilities for the projected shortfall in funding. If the amount we accrued for the contractual funding shortfall is understated, our financial results, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 