ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be adversely affected. You should refer to the other information set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K, including the information set forth in "Forward-Looking Statements," and our consolidated financial statements herein. The information specifically set forth under "Forward-Looking Statements" constitutes additional risks, which, if they actually occur, could adversely affect our business as well. The new Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan (PDP), which became effective January 1, 2006, could result in a materially adverse operating result due to lower than expected operating revenues and higher than expected operating costs. In addition, our continuing participation in the program beyond 2006 is subject to various risks including risks that may not be currently evident due to the new nature of the program. Our bid proposal for the PDP used actuarial assumptions regarding membership characteristics, drug utilization and the costs of prescription drugs. We attempt to use actuarial assumptions that are reasonable and prudent based on the known facts and circumstances. However, the use of actuarial assumptions entails a degree of risk in that the assumptions may not be correct and the actual results may be different than what was assumed. If our actuarial assumptions are incorrect, we could have significantly lower operating revenues and/or significantly higher operating costs, which could materially adversely affect our operating results. Our coverage of dual-eligible PDP beneficiaries on an ongoing auto-enrollment basis depends, in future years, upon our ability to continue to contract with CMS and on our bid proposal containing a premium structure below the benchmark set annually by CMS for this program. Should we not be able to maintain 17 Table of Contents this level of auto-enrollment participation, we have the potential for losing significant PDP membership, which could materially adversely affect our operating results in future years. In addition, due to the negative publicity surrounding the start of this program or other factors, there is no assurance that the program will not undergo significant changes, which could adversely affect our participation in the program. A loss of the state Medicaid contract could adversely affect our operating results. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 7.1% of our revenues were from our Medicaid contract with the state of Nevada. The current Medicaid contract was originally scheduled to expire on June 30, 2006. We have received a new request for proposal from the state of Nevada and a request to extend the contract by four months to allow the state to process re-submitted bid proposals for the new contract. We were notified in the fourth quarter of 2005 that we were awarded a new contract; however, the state subsequently rescinded the contract award in response to a reported error in the state's calculation of responses to the request for proposal from various bidders, as well as a change in the composition of the evaluation panel and the instructions it received. The loss of the state Medicaid contract would materially adversely affect our operating results. The payment methodology for our Social HMO Medicare program is resulting in a lower premium rate increase. In addition, the Social HMO program is expected to be terminated on December 31, 2007. If we are unable to compensate by reducing benefits and costs, our financial results would be materially affected. Medicare revenues from CMS accounted for approximately 36.5% of our 2005 consolidated revenues. Effective January 2004, CMS adopted a new risk adjustment payment methodology for Medicare beneficiaries who are enrolled in managed care programs, including the Social HMO. The Social HMO program has been administratively extended by CMS but will phase-out at the end of 2007. For Social HMO members, the new methodology includes a frailty adjuster that uses measures of functional impairment to predict expenditures. CMS is transitioning to the new payment methodology on a graduated basis from 2004 through 2007. In 2005, we were paid 70% based on the previous payment methodology and 30% based on the new methodology. Excluding the effects of MMA, the new payment methodology reduced our 2005 rate increase by approximately 289 basis points. For 2006 and 2007, we will be paid 50% and 25%, based on the previous payment methodology and 50% and 75%, based on the new methodology, respectively. The extension of the Social HMO program through 2007 will serve as a transition period so that we can convert to a Medicare Advantage plan in 2008. Based on the information provided to us by CMS in 2005, our 2006 annual Medicare increase was reduced by over 200 basis points as a result of the continued transition to the new payment methodology. The actual 2006 rate will be based on the actual membership mix enrolled as well as the final risk and other factors determined by CMS. We had originally projected a blended rate increase from CMS of approximately 6%. Based on the initial information we have received from CMS in the first quarter of 2006, our actual rate increase will be higher than 6%. Every year, we receive adjustments to the amount CMS pays us for the services we provide to our Medicare enrollees and we adjust the benefits we provide to Medicare enrollees to reflect the changing CMS payments so that we can maintain our operating margin. If we are unable to adjust benefits we provide to Medicare enrollees to reflect changes in CMS payments and the associated cost of providing benefits so that we can attempt to maintain our operating margin, or if our contract with CMS were to be terminated, our financial results would be materially adversely impacted. As a health care company, we and our health care providers may be subject to increased malpractice costs and claims, which could adversely affect our business. We and our health care providers are subject to malpractice claims. We require our health care providers to maintain malpractice insurance and we set up reserves with respect to potential malpractice claims. 18 Table of Contents While we do not believe that our uninsured exposure to liabilities resulting from current malpractice claims is material, there may in the future be significant malpractice liabilities for which we do not have adequate reserves or insurance coverage, and this insurance may not continue to be available at all or on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, punitive damage awards are generally not covered by insurance. If we fail to negotiate a new contract with HCA, our operating results may be adversely affected. Our primary southern Nevada contracted hospital organization is comprised of Sunrise Hospital and Medical Center, Mountain View Hospital and Southern Hills Hospital and Medical Center. These facilities are owned by HCA. The majority of our southern Nevada hospital days are at these facilities. In general, our other hospital contracts in Las Vegas are based on a fixed per diem rate structure and are generally competitive with HCA's rates. Our current contract with HCA expires December 31, 2006. Our contracts with two of our other principal hospital groups do not expire until June 1, 2008 and July 1, 2008. Our contract with a third principal hospital group is an evergreen contract, which either party may terminate with 180 days notice. If we are unable to contract with HCA beyond 2006, we will engage in an effort to move our hospital days to other contracted facilities. If we are unable to negotiate a new contract with HCA and are required to move our hospital days to other contracted facilities our operating results may be adversely affected as the other contracted hospitals may not have sufficient capacity. If we fail to qualify for the Nevada home office tax credit, our premium tax costs will increase. Under existing Nevada law, a 50% premium tax credit is generally available to HMOs and insurers that own and substantially occupy home offices or regional home offices within Nevada. In connection with the settlement of a prior dispute concerning the premium tax credit, the Nevada Division of Insurance acknowledged in November 1993 that our HMO and insurance subsidiaries met the statutory requirements to qualify for this tax credit. We intend to take all necessary steps to continue to comply with these requirements. However, the elimination or reduction of the premium tax credit, or our failure to qualify for the premium tax credit, would substantially increase our premium tax burden, and our financial results would be materially adversely impacted. Our ability to obtain and maintain favorable group benefit agreements with employer groups affects our profitability. Our ability to obtain and maintain favorable group benefit agreements with employer groups affects our profitability. The agreements are generally renewable on an annual basis but are subject to termination on 60 days prior notice. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, our four largest HMO employer groups were, in the aggregate, responsible for less than 10% of our total revenues. Although none of our employer groups accounted for more than 4% of our total revenues during that period, the loss of one or more of the larger employer groups could, if not replaced with similar membership, have a material adverse effect upon our business. We have generally been successful in retaining these employer groups in Nevada. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our agreements with our employer groups in the future or that we will not experience a decline in enrollment within our employer groups. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and enhance our information systems. Our information systems are a vital and integral part of our operations. We depend on our information systems to enable us to bill and collect premium revenues, process and pay claims and other operating expenses, and provide effective and efficient services to our customers including the delivery of healthcare services using an electronic medical record. We also depend on our information systems to provide us with accurate and complete data to enable us to adequately price our products and services and report our financial results. We are required to commit significant ongoing resources to maintain and enhance our existing information systems as well as develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in 19 Table of Contents technologies, industry practices, regulatory standards and changing customer preferences. We are also dependent on many third-party vendors for our information system applications and infrastructure. We cannot provide assurance that these vendors will be able to maintain their services without interruption or errors, which if not timely corrected, could materially adversely affect our operating results. If the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain effectively our information systems and data integrity, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty in attracting new customers, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have customer and physician and other health care provider disputes, have regulatory problems, have increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our major competition is from self-funded employer plans, PPO products, other HMOs and traditional indemnity carriers, such as Aetna, Wellpoint, and PacifiCare, which is now a subsidiary of Unitedhealth Group. Many of our competitors have substantially larger total enrollments, greater financial resources, broader out-of-area networks, and offer a wider range of products. Additional competitors with greater financial resources may enter our markets in the future. We believe that the most important competitive factors are the delivery of reasonably priced, quality medical benefits to members and the adequacy and availability of health care delivery services and facilities. We depend on a large local PPO network and flexible benefit plans to attract new members. Competitive pressures and other factors may result in reduced membership levels. It is impractical to attempt to quantify the financial impact of an unspecified reduction in m embership. However, we believe any reductions in our membership levels that are not compensated by reductions in operating expenses could materially affect our business and results of operations. The majority of our business is in southern Nevada and a significant prolonged economic recession would adversely affect our operating results. All of our HMO and the majority of our PPO and POS businesses are conducted in the state of Nevada, primarily in Clark County. We have benefited from the economic and population growth experienced by the state, especially in Clark County, over the past several years. The state's low tax structure is attractive to businesses and retirees, which presents growth opportunities for our Medicare Advantage and PDP plans. Clark County is facing infrastructure, water, affordable housing and other issues, which may dampen future economic and population growth. We are at risk of incurring material adverse operating results should the state and especially Clark County experience a significant prolonged economic recession. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by understatements in our actual liabilities caused by understatements in our actuarial estimates of incurred but not reported health care claims. We estimate the amount of our reserves for incurred but not reported (IBNR) claims primarily using standard actuarial methodologies based upon historical data. These methodologies include, among other factors, the average interval between the date services are rendered and the date claims are received and/or paid, denied claims activity, disputed claims activity, utilization, seasonality patterns and changes in membership. The estimates for submitted claims and IBNR claims liabilities are made on an accrual basis and adjusted in future periods as required. These estimates could understate or overstate our actual liability for claims and benefits payable. For example, during 2005, our actuarial best estimate of the liability recorded at December 31, 2004 decreased approximately $13.3 million. This is compared to a decrease of approximately $12.1 million in the liability recorded at December 31, 2003 during 2004. Any increases to prior estimates could adversely affect results of operat ions in future periods. In addition, the premium pricing of our health care plans takes into consideration past historical cost trends. If our actual liability for claims and benefits are higher than our prior recorded estimates, our business and results of operations in future periods could be adversely impacted. 20 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with "corporate practice of medicine" laws in states in which we operate could result in our being unable to practice medicine in that state and possibly lead to penalties and/or higher medical expenses. Under the "corporate practice of medicine" doctrine, in most states, business organizations, other than those authorized to do so, are prohibited from providing, or holding themselves out as providers of, medical care. Some states, including Nevada, exempt HMOs from this doctrine. The laws relating to this doctrine are subject to numerous conflicting interpretations. Although we seek to structure our operations to comply with corporate practice of medicine laws in all states in which we operate, there can be no assurance that, given the varying and uncertain interpretations of these laws, we would be found in compliance with these laws in all states. A determination that our medical provider subsidiary, SMA, is not exempt and is not in compliance with applicable corporate practice of medicine laws in Nevada could result in SMA being unable to practice medicine in Nevada and possibly lead to penalties and/or higher medical expenses. At December 31, 2005, 73% of our southern Nevada HMO health care members chose one of our SMA physicians as their primary care provider. A determination that SMA is not in compliance with applicable corporate practice of medicine laws in Nevada could require that we divest our ownership interest in or dissolve SMA. Alternatively, we may be required to expand our network of independent contracted providers, all of which could lead to a disruption in our provider network, member dissatisfaction and ultimately higher medical expenses for our HMO and health care insurance subsidiaries. At December 31, 2005, we had $52.0 million of senior convertible debentures outstanding, which we may not be able to repay in cash. In March 2003, we issued $115.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2¼% senior convertible debentures due March 15, 2023. At December 31, 2005, the outstanding principal balance was $52.0 million, due to voluntary conversions of the debentures into our common stock. The debentures pay interest, which is due semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year. Each $1,000 principal amount of debentures is convertible, at the option of the holders, into 109.3494 shares of our common stock prior to March 15, 2023 if: (i) the market price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days in a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding fiscal quarter exceeds 120% of the conversion price per share of our common stock; (ii) the debentures are called for redemption; (iii) there is an event of default with respect to the debentures; or (iv) specified corporate transactions have occurred. Beginning December 2003 and for each subsequent p eriod, the market price of our common stock has exceeded 120% of the conversion price for at least 20 trading days in a period of 30 consecutive trading days. The conversion rate is subject to certain adjustments. This conversion rate represents a conversion price of $9.145 per share. Holders of the debentures may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their debentures on March 15 in 2008, 2013 and 2018 or upon certain corporate events including a change in control. In either case, we may choose to pay the purchase price of such debentures in cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock. We may not have enough cash on hand or have the ability to access cash to pay the debentures if presented or at maturity. We may redeem all or some of the debentures on or after March 20, 2008 for cash. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. At December 31, 2005, we had $52.4 million of indebtedness on a consolidated basis. This level of indebtedness could have several important effects on our future operations, including our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate and other purposes. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and to reduce our total indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. 21 Table of Contents Our senior secured credit facility imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us. We entered into a revolving credit facility on March 3, 2003 and at December 31, 2005, we did not have an outstanding balance on the facility. The amended credit agreement provides us with a revolving credit facility of $140.0 million and is secured by guarantees by certain of our subsidiaries and a first priority security interest in (i) all the capital stock of each of our unregulated, material domestic subsidiaries (direct or indirect) as well as all of the capital stock of certain regulated, material domestic subsidiaries; and (ii) all other present and future assets and properties of ours and those of our subsidiaries that guarantee our credit agreement obligations (including, without limitation, accounts receivable, inventory, real property, equipment, contracts, trademarks, copyrights, patents, license rights and general intangibles) other than cash and cash equivalents, subject, in each case, to the exclusion of the capital stock of CII and certain other exclusions. The revolving credit facility restricts our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to dispose of assets, incur indebtedness, incur other liens, make investments, loans or advances, make acquisitions, engage in mergers or consolidations, or make capital expenditures and otherwise restrict certain corporate activities. These covenants may prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities and taking certain actions. In addition, we are required to comply with specified financial ratios as set forth in the credit agreement. A failure to comply with these covenants would be an event of default under the credit agreement. The amended revolving credit facility matures on December 31, 2009. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully refinance or pay any outstanding indebtedness when it matures. We depend on our management for our success and the loss of our founder, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, or other key executives, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success has been dependent to a large extent upon the efforts of Anthony M. Marlon, M.D., our founder, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, who has an employment agreement with us. Although we believe that the development of our management staff has made us less dependent on Dr. Marlon, the loss of Dr. Marlon or other key executives could still have a material adverse effect on our business. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and other attacks, acts of war or military actions, such as military actions in Iraq or elsewhere, may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The attacks of September 11, 2001 contributed to major instability in the U.S. and other financial markets. These terrorist attacks, the military response and future developments, or other military actions such as the military actions in Iraq or elsewhere, may adversely affect prevailing economic conditions and the insurance and reinsurance markets. Since a high percentage of our business is concentrated in Clark County, these developments, depending on their magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our business is subject to substantial government regulation and the impact of this regulation may increase our exposure to lawsuits and/or penalties or other regulatory actions for non-compliance or may otherwise adversely affect our business. The health care industry in general, and HMOs and health insurance companies in particular, are subject to substantial federal and state government regulation. These regulations, which may increase our exposure to lawsuits and/or penalties or other regulatory actions for non-compliance, include, but are not limited to: cash reserves; minimum net worth; solvency standards; licensing requirements; approval of policy language and benefits; claims payment practices; mandatory products and benefits; provider compensation arrangements; patient confidentiality; premium rates; changes of control and related party transaction approval requirements; medical management tools; dividend payments; investment and risk restrictions; and periodic examinations by state and federal agencies. 22 Table of Contents As a result, a portion of our HMOs' and insurance companies' cash is essentially restricted by various state regulatory or other requirements limiting certain of our subsidiaries' cash to use within their current operations. State and federal government authorities are continually considering changes to laws and regulations that may affect us. Additionally, legislators in the states in which we operate continue to face pressure to cut back services and programs in ways that could adversely affect us. Many states in which we operate are currently considering regulations relating to mandatory benefits, provider compensation, disclosure and composition of physician networks. If such regulations were adopted by any of the states in which we operate, our business could be materially adversely affected. As a result of the continued escalation of health care costs and the inability of many individuals to obtain health care insurance, numerous proposals relating to health care reform have been or may be introduced in the United States Congress and state legislatures. Any proposals affecting underwriting practices, limiting rate increases, requiring new or additional benefits or affecting contracting arrangements (including proposals to require HMOs and PPOs to accept any health care providers willing to abide by an HMO's or PPO's contract terms), may make it more difficult for us to control medical costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition to applicable laws and regulations, we are subject to various audits, investigations and enforcement actions. These include possible government actions relating to ERISA, which regulates insured and self-insured health coverage plans offered by employers; FEHBP; CMS, which regulates Medicare and Medicaid programs; federal and state fraud and abuse laws; and laws relating to utilization management and the delivery of health care and the timeliness of payment or reimbursement. Any such government action could result in assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including exclusion from participation in government programs. In addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation, audit results or sanctions could negatively affect our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services. Our forecasts and forward-looking statements are based on assumptions and subject to uncertainties and actual results may be significantly different from those forecast. We periodically in press releases, conference calls, investor conferences and otherwise, issue forecasts or other forward-looking statements regarding our future results, including estimated revenues, earnings per share and other financial metrics. We base these forecasts on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable and prudent. However, the use of assumptions entails risks that they may not be accurate. Actual results could be significantly different than the forecasted results as conditions and the occurrence of events may be different than what was assumed. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our actual results will be consistent with the forecasted statements or that there will be no significant variation. We may not realize the total amount of the net sales proceeds from our sale of the workers' compensation insurance operations. Effective March 31, 2004, we sold our workers' compensation insurance subsidiaries, consisting of California Indemnity and its wholly-owned insurance subsidiaries. The sales proceeds included a note receivable, which is payable in 2010 and is subject to adjustment based upon the loss and allocated loss adjustment expense development from the closing date through December 31, 2009. Any adjustments due to adverse loss and allocated loss adjustment expense development would be included in continuing operations. Factors such as reinsurers failing to honor their obligations to the workers' compensation subsidiaries, economic recessions and the resulting higher unemployment rates, over utilization of medical treatments, and the effect of new legislation or regulations could affect the subsidiaries' loss and allocated loss adjustment expense development. Our sold workers' compensation insurance subsidiaries have had net adverse loss development occur in each of the past years 1999 to 2004 ra nging from $8.7 million to $24.0 million. At December 31, 2004, based on actuarially determined reserve analyses, we established a valuation allowance of $15.0 million on the note receivable. The valuation allowance did not change in 2005. 23 Table of Contents In addition, effective with the close of the sale, the workers' compensation claims were out-sourced to an independent third party claims administrator (TPA). Part of the TPA's compensation is subject to satisfactory adherence to certain agreed upon claims administration processes and procedures. While we will audit the claims handling performance of the TPA, we cannot be certain that all of the claims will be administered in the most cost effective manner, which could result in adverse loss development. There is no assurance that we will actually realize or be able to collect the note receivable, as adjusted. We are obligated to perform certain services in connection with the sale of the workers' compensation insurance operations and the accrual for the estimated contractual funding shortfall may be insufficient, which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial results. The sale of the workers' compensation insurance operations requires us to perform, be responsible for the performance of, or be financially obligated to pay for, certain transition services through December 31, 2009. This includes claims administration, processing policy transactions, premium collections and other services related to insurance operations. We receive a limited amount of funds to perform these services from Cal Indemnity or its successor and we accrued additional liabilities for the projected shortfall in funding. If the amount we accrued for the contractual funding shortfall is understated, our financial results could be materially adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 