ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be adversely affected. You should refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the information set forth in "Forward-Looking Statements,” and our consolidated financial statements herein. The information specifically set forth under “Forward-Looking Statements” constitutes additional risks, which, if they actually occur, could adversely affect our business as well. Our actual experience for our enhanced PDP product offering for January 2007 has varied materially from the actuarial assumptions provided by the independent actuaries we retained to develop the plan design for our 2007 bid. As a result, our 2007 medical expenses for this program are expected to be significantly higher than anticipated, thereby materially adversely affecting our projected operating results, financial position and cash flows for 2007. Our bid proposal for our enhanced PDP product offering was based upon actuarial assumptions developed by independent actuaries using their national database regarding membership characteristics, estimated drug utilization and other factors. The proposal relied upon actuarial assumptions regarding membership characteristics, drug utilization and the cost of prescription drugs. These actuarial assumptions were considered reasonable based upon the facts and circumstances known at the time we submitted our bid to CMS. However, because of unanticipated levels of adverse selection, our claims experience in January 2007 has varied materially from the actuarial assumptions. As a result, we currently believe that in 2007 we will have higher pharmacy costs from this program than had been originally projected; however, given the limited data we have, we are unable to reasonably estimate the amount of premium deficiency at this time. Accordingly, we anticipate materially adverse variations from our projected 2007 operating results, financial position and cash flows. Our continuing participation in the program beyond 2007 is subject to various risks including risks that may not be currently evident due to the newness of the program. Our coverage of auto-enrolled PDP beneficiaries on an ongoing auto-enrollment basis depends in future years upon our ability to continue to contract with CMS and on our bid proposal containing a premium structure below the benchmark set annually by CMS for this program. In 2006, we were notified that our New Mexico and Texas bids for 2007 contained a premium structure above the benchmark set by CMS and that we would no longer be eligible to retain our auto-enrolled members. Should future bids result in an impact to our auto-enrollment participation, we have the potential for losing significant PDP membership, which could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial position and cash flows in future years. In addition, due to the newness of the program, there is no assurance that the program will not undergo significant changes, which could adversely affect our participation in the program and have a materially adverse effect on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. The PDP program was new for 2006 and the final reconciliation of the results of the 2006 program will not occur with CMS until around the third quarter of 2007. If the results of this final reconciliation are not what we have estimated, the actual results may have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. 18 Table of Contents The PDP program was new for 2006 and includes many complicated features including estimating the gain/loss share with CMS and reconciling with other plans and various states. We made several estimates regarding amounts due to/from other plans and states. If the actual amounts turn out to be materially different from our estimates it could have a materially adverse impact on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. In addition, if the final reconciliation with CMS is materially different from what we have estimated, then it could have a materially adverse impact on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. The phase out of the Social HMO payment methodology for our Medicare Advantage program could result in a lower premium rate increase, or potentially a decrease. The Social HMO program is expected to be phased out on December 31, 2007. If we are unable to compensate for this expected decrease in revenues by reducing benefits and costs, our operating results could be materially affected. Additionally, each year our bid to CMS is based on actuarial assumptions, which if incorrect, could materially affect our operating results. Medicare revenues from CMS related to our Medicare Advantage HMO accounted for approximately 31.5% of our 2006 consolidated revenues. Effective January 2004, CMS adopted a risk adjustment payment methodology for Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in managed care programs, including the Social HMO. The Social HMO was administratively extended by CMS through December 31, 2007. For Social HMO members, the methodology includes a frailty adjuster that uses measures of functional impairment to predict expenditures. CMS is transitioning our plan to a risk payment methodology on a graduated basis from 2004 through 2007 and we will be completely transitioned to the risk methodology effective January 1, 2008. In 2005 and 2006, we were paid 70% and 50% based on the demographic payment methodology and 30% and 50% based on the risk methodology, respectively. For 2006, this transition towards the frailty adjusted risk methodology was favorable to our rate as a result of the unexpectedly high frailty adjuster we received for 2006 that caused our payment to be increased by 160 basis points compared to what our payment would have been if we had not continued the methodology transition. For 2007, we will be paid 25%, based on the previous demographic payment methodology and 75% based on the risk methodology. The risk methodology for 2007 will continue to be adjusted by the frailty factor under our last year as a Social HMO plan. The payment will also continue to reflect the actual membership mix enrolled as well as the final risk and other factors determined by CMS. Based on the initial information we have received from CMS, our frailty adjuster is significantly lower in 2007 than it was in 2006 resulting in an estimated decrease in our annual Medicare revenue of approximately $10 million. As a result of the decrease in the frailty adjuster and the roll back by CMS of risk adjusters, we anticipate a decrease in the monthly payment we receive per member in 2007 compared to what we received in 2006. For 2008, we will be fully transitioned to a risk payment methodology which we believe will still have a frailty factor component through 2010 based on an advance notice CMS issued for comment on February 16, 2007. The notice stated that the frailty factor would continue to be a component of the risk score calculation for former Social HMO plans by using 75%, 50%, and 25% of the current frailty factor for the payments in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. A final decision on this pending notice is expected to be made on April 2, 2007. Given the nature of this notice and other variable components of our annual payment calculation our 2008 payment per member may be less than our expected 2007 payment per member. We create our benefit plans based on actuarial assumptions that are used in our bid process. If these assumptions are incorrect, it could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial position and cash flows. In addition, if we receive a decrease in the amount we receive from CMS per member or future rate increases are less than our cost increases, we would need to adjust our benefits and costs to maintain our margins. If we are unable to reduce the benefits we offer, our profit margins will decrease and it may have a materially adverse effect on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. During the past 18 months we have had several membership reconciliation issues with CMS that impact our Medicare Advantage HMO plan as well as our Medicare Advantage local and regional PPO plans and our stand-alone PDP. If these membership reconciliation issues are not able to be resolved and we continue to have these types of issues, our operating results may be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Primarily during 2006, we have received inconsistent membership data from CMS and have not fully resolved many issues. There are instances when we provide coverage to members we believe are ours, but CMS does not recognize them as members and in turn we are not getting paid for those members. In some cases, Sierra was not able to identify that we were not getting paid for certain members in a timely manner and, as a result, CMS may not make a premium payment to us for certain periods. If we are not able to resolve these issues timely, we are subject to exposure for claims incurred without receiving the appropriate revenue. In addition, if we have members we believe are ours and CMS ultimately determines that they are not our members, it could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. As a health care company, we and our health care providers may be subject to increased malpractice costs and claims, which could adversely affect our business. We and our health care providers are subject to malpractice claims. We require our health care providers to maintain malpractice insurance and we set up reserves with respect to potential malpractice claims; however, there may be in the future significant malpractice liabilities for which we do not have adequate reserves or insurance coverage. In addition, insurance coverage may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all and punitive damage awards are generally not covered by insurance. If we fail to effectively manage our admissions to non-contracted facilities or there is insufficient capacity at contracted facilities, our operating results may be adversely affected. In 2006, our primary southern Nevada contracted hospital organization was comprised of Sunrise Hospital and Medical Center, Mountain View Hospital and Southern Hills Hospital and Medical Center. These facilities are owned by HCA. Our longstanding contract with HCA expired on December 31, 2006. We contract with ten other southern Nevada hospitals that have committed to providing sufficient capacity to accommodate our acute care needs. The contracts with these hospitals are based on a fixed per diem rate structure and in some circumstances are higher than the previous HCA contracted rates. We have implemented several strategies to limit the number of admissions to HCA. These strategies include, but are not limited to, continuing to staff the HCA hospitals with a hospitalist to monitor any emergency admissions and within coverage constraints, not authorizing any non-emergency procedures at HCA. In 2007, we may be required to pay full-billed charges for services rendered to our commercial members at an HCA hospital. Full-billed charges are substantially higher than our current commercial rates with our contracted hospitals. We will receive a significant discount to full-billed charges for services rendered to Medicare and Medicaid members at an HCA hospital because they will be required to bill us at the Medicare and Medicaid fee schedule. Failing to manage the number of admissions at HCA could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial position and cash flows. The ten southern Nevada facilities that comprise our primary contracted hospitals have committed to providing sufficient capacity to accommodate our acute care needs. We believe that there is adequate capacity at those facilities for our membership but there may be times that this capacity is inadequate and we would be required to utilize non-contracted facilities at substantially higher rates. If we were required to utilize non-contracted facilities, it could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. If the billed charges we receive from non-contracted facilities are significantly higher than expected and are unreasonable, our operating results may be adversely affected. We are subject to billed charges at non-contracted facilities. These billed charges, in many cases, are in excess of six times what a contracted rate would be for similar services. We are also exposed to increases in billed charges and cannot control what the hospital determines these charges to be. If these billed charges are in excess of what we expect, or we are unable to negotiate reasonable charges, it could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. If we fail to qualify for the Nevada home office tax credit, our premium tax costs will increase. Under existing Nevada law, a 50% premium tax credit is generally available to HMOs and insurers that own and 20 Table of Contents substantially occupy home offices or regional home offices within Nevada. In connection with the settlement of a prior dispute concerning the premium tax credit, the Nevada Division of Insurance acknowledged in November 1993 that our HMO and insurance subsidiaries met the statutory requirements to qualify for this tax credit. We intend to take all necessary steps to continue to comply with these requirements. However, the elimination or reduction of the premium tax credit, or our failure to qualify for the premium tax credit, would substantially increase our premium tax burden, and our operating results, financial position and cash flows would be materially adversely impacted. Our ability to obtain and maintain favorable group benefit agreements with employer groups affects our profitability. Our ability to obtain and maintain favorable group benefit agreements with employer groups affects our profitability. The agreements are generally renewable on an annual basis but are subject to termination on 60 days prior notice. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, our four largest HMO employer groups were, in the aggregate, responsible for less than 10% of our total revenues; however, the loss of one or more of the larger employer groups could, if not replaced with similar membership, have a material adverse effect upon our business. We have generally been successful in retaining these employer groups in Nevada, although we did have three large employer groups, representing approximately 11,000 members terminate coverage effective January 1, 2007. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our agreements with our employer groups in the future or that we will not experience a decline in enrollment within our employer groups. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and enhance our information systems. Our information systems are a vital and integral part of our operations. We depend on our information systems to enable us to bill and collect premium revenues, process and pay claims and other operating expenses, and provide effective and efficient services to our customers including the delivery of healthcare services using an electronic medical record. We also depend on our information systems to provide us with accurate and complete data to enable us to adequately price our products and services and report our operating results. We are required to commit significant ongoing resources to maintain and enhance our existing information systems as well as develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in technologies, industry practices, regulatory standards and changing customer preferences. We are also dependent on many third-party vendors for our information system applications and infrastructure. We cannot provide assurance that these vendors will be able to maintain their services without interruption or errors, which if not timely corrected, could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial position and cash flows. If the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable, or if we fail to maintain effectively our information systems and data integrity, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty in attracting new customers, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have customer and physician and other health care provider disputes, have regulatory problems, have increases in operating expenses or suffer other material adverse consequences. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our major competition is from self-funded employer plans, PPO products, other HMOs and traditional indemnity carriers, such as CIGNA, Aetna, Wellpoint, and UnitedHealth Group. Many of our competitors have substantially larger total enrollments, greater financial resources, broader out-of-area networks, and offer a wider range of products. Additional competitors with greater financial resources may enter our markets in the future. We believe that the most important competitive factors are the delivery of reasonably priced, quality medical benefits to members and the adequacy and availability of health care delivery services and facilities. We depend on a large local PPO network and flexible benefit plans to attract new members. Competitive pressures and other factors may result in reduced membership levels. We believe any reductions in our membership levels that are not compensated by reductions in operating expenses could materially affect our business and operating results, financial position and cash flows. The majority of our business is in southern Nevada and a significant prolonged economic recession would adversely affect our operating results. 21 Table of Contents All of our HMO and the majority of our PPO and POS businesses are conducted in the state of Nevada, primarily in southern Nevada. We have benefited from the economic and population growth experienced by the state, especially in southern Nevada, over the past several years. The state’s low tax structure is attractive to businesses and retirees, which presents growth opportunities for our Commercial, Medicare Advantage and PDP plans. Southern Nevada is facing infrastructure, water, affordable housing and other issues, which may dampen future economic and population growth. We are at risk of incurring material adverse operating results should the state and especially if southern Nevada experiences a significant prolonged economic recession. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by understatements in our actual liabilities caused by understatements in our actuarial estimates of incurred but not reported health care claims. We estimate the amount of our reserves for incurred but not reported (IBNR) claims primarily using standard actuarial methodologies based upon historical data. These methodologies include, among other factors, the average interval between the date services are rendered and the date claims are received and/or paid, denied claims activity, disputed claims activity, utilization, seasonality patterns and changes in membership. The estimates for submitted claims and IBNR claims liabilities are made on an accrual basis and adjusted in future periods as required. These estimates could understate or overstate our actual liability for claims and benefits payable. For example, during 2006, our actuarially determined best estimate of the liability recorded at December 31, 2005 decreased approximately $15.9 million. This is compared to a decrease of approximately $13.3 million in the liability recorded at December 31, 2004 during 2005. Any increases to prior estimates could adversely affect results of operations in future periods. In addition, the premium pricing of our health care plans takes into consideration past historical cost trends. If our actual liability for claims and benefits are higher than our prior recorded estimates, our business and operating results in future periods could be adversely impacted. Our failure to comply with corporate practice of medicine laws in states in which we operate could result in our being unable to practice medicine in that state and possibly lead to penalties and/or higher medical expenses. Under the corporate practice of medicine doctrine, in most states, business organizations, other than those authorized to do so, are prohibited from providing, or holding themselves out as providers of, medical care. Some states, including Nevada, exempt HMOs from this doctrine. The laws relating to this doctrine are subject to numerous conflicting interpretations and there can be no assurance that, given the varying and uncertain interpretations of these laws, we would be found in compliance with these laws in all states. A determination that our medical provider subsidiary, SMA, is not exempt and is not in compliance with applicable corporate practice of medicine laws in Nevada could result in SMA being unable to practice medicine in Nevada and possibly lead to penalties and/or higher medical expenses. At December 31, 2006, 73% of our southern Nevada HMO health care members chose one of our SMA physicians as their primary care provider. A determination that SMA is not in compliance with applicable corporate practice of medicine laws in Nevada could require that we divest our ownership interest in or dissolve SMA. Alternatively, we may be required to expand our network of independent contracted providers, all of which could lead to a disruption in our provider network, member dissatisfaction and ultimately higher medical expenses for our HMO and health care insurance subsidiaries. At December 31, 2006, we had $43.5 million of senior convertible debentures outstanding, which we may not be able to repay in cash. In March 2003, we issued $115.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2¼% senior convertible debentures due March 15, 2023. At December 31, 2006, the outstanding principal balance was $43.5 million, due to voluntary conversions of the debentures into our common stock. The debentures pay interest, which is due semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year. Each $1,000 principal amount of debentures is convertible, at the option of the holders, into 109.3494 shares of our common stock prior to March 15, 2023 if: (i) the market price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days in a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding fiscal quarter exceeds 120% of the conversion price per share of our common stock; (ii) the debentures are called for redemption; (iii) there is an event of default with respect to the debentures; or (iv) specified 22 Table of Contents corporate transactions have occurred. Beginning December 2003 and for each subsequent period, the market price of our common stock has exceeded 120% of the conversion price for at least 20 trading days in a period of 30 consecutive trading days. The conversion rate is subject to certain adjustments. This conversion rate represents a conversion price of $9.145 per share. Holders of the debentures may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their debentures on March 15 in 2008, 2013 and 2018 or upon certain corporate events including a change in control. In either case, we may choose to pay the purchase price of such debentures in cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock. We may not have enough cash on hand or have the ability to access cash to pay the debentures if presented or at maturity. We may redeem all or some of the debentures on or after March 20, 2008 for cash. In January 2007, we entered into a privately negotiated transaction with a holder pursuant to which the holder converted $21.7 million in debentures for approximately 2.4 million shares of common stock in accordance with the indenture governing the debentures. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. At December 31, 2006, we had $118.9 million of indebtedness on a consolidated basis. This level of indebtedness could have several important effects on our future operations, including our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and to reduce our total indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our inability to meet our debt service obligations could have a materially adverse impact on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. Our senior secured credit facility imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us. At December 31, 2006, we had an outstanding balance of $75.0 million on our revolving credit facility. The amended credit agreement provides us with a revolving credit facility of $250.0 million and is secured by guarantees by certain of our subsidiaries and a first priority security interest in (i) all the capital stock of each of our unregulated, material domestic subsidiaries (direct or indirect) as well as all of the capital stock of certain regulated, material domestic subsidiaries; and (ii) all other present and future assets and properties of ours and those of our subsidiaries that guarantee our credit agreement obligations (including, without limitation, accounts receivable, inventory, certain real property, equipment, contracts, trademarks, copyrights, patents, license rights and general intangibles) other than cash and cash equivalents, subject, in each case, to certain exclusions. The revolving credit facility restricts our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to dispose of assets, incur indebtedness, incur other liens, make investments, loans or advances, make acquisitions, engage in mergers or consolidations, or make capital expenditures and otherwise restrict certain corporate activities. These covenants may prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities and taking certain actions. In addition, we are required to comply with specified financial ratios as set forth in the credit agreement. A failure to comply with these covenants would be an event of default under the credit agreement. The amended revolving credit facility expires on June 26, 2011. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully refinance or pay any outstanding indebtedness when it matures. We depend on our management for our success and the loss of our founder, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, or other key executives, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success has been dependent to a large extent upon the efforts of Anthony M. Marlon, M.D., our founder, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, who has an employment agreement with us. The loss of Dr. Marlon or other key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and other attacks, acts of war or military actions, such as military actions in Iraq or elsewhere, may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The attacks of September 11, 2001 contributed to major instability in the United States and other financial markets. 23 Table of Contents These terrorist attacks, the military response and future developments, or other military actions such as the military actions in Iraq or elsewhere, may adversely affect prevailing economic conditions and the insurance and reinsurance markets. Since a high percentage of our business is concentrated in southern Nevada, these developments, depending on their magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our business is subject to substantial government regulation and the impact of this regulation may increase our exposure to lawsuits and/or penalties or other regulatory actions for non-compliance or may otherwise adversely affect our business. The health care industry in general, and HMOs and health insurance companies in particular, are subject to substantial federal and state government regulation. These regulations, which may increase our exposure to lawsuits and/or penalties or other regulatory actions for non-compliance, include, but are not limited to: cash reserves; minimum net worth; solvency standards; licensing requirements; approval of policy language and benefits; claims payment practices; mandatory products and benefits; provider compensation arrangements; patient confidentiality; premium rates; changes of control and related party transaction approval requirements; medical management tools; dividend payments; investment and risk restrictions; and periodic examinations by state and federal agencies. As a result, a portion of our HMOs’ and insurance companies’ cash is essentially restricted by various state regulatory or other requirements limiting certain of our subsidiaries’ cash to use within their current operations. State and federal government authorities are continually considering changes to laws and regulations that may affect us. Additionally, legislators in the states in which we operate continue to face pressure to cut back services and programs in ways that could adversely affect us. Many states in which we operate are currently considering regulations relating to mandatory benefits, provider compensation, disclosure and composition of physician networks. If such regulations were adopted by any of the states in which we operate, our business could be materially adversely affected. As a result of the continued escalation of health care costs and the inability of many individuals to obtain health care insurance, numerous proposals relating to health care reform have been or may be introduced in the United States Congress and state legislatures. Any proposals affecting underwriting practices, limiting rate increases, requiring new or additional benefits or affecting contracting arrangements (including proposals to require HMOs and PPOs to accept any health care providers willing to abide by an HMO’s or PPO’s contract terms), may make it more difficult for us to control medical costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition to applicable laws and regulations, we are subject to various audits, investigations and enforcement actions. These include possible government actions relating to ERISA, which regulates insured and self-insured health coverage plans offered by employers; FEHBP; CMS, which regulates Medicare and Medicaid programs; federal and state fraud and abuse laws; and laws relating to utilization management and the delivery of health care and the timeliness of payment or reimbursement. Any such government action could result in the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including exclusion from participation in government programs. In addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation, audit results or sanctions could negatively affect our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services or retain current business. Our forecasts and forward-looking statements are based on assumptions and subject to uncertainties and actual results may be significantly different from those forecast. We periodically in press releases, conference calls, investor conferences and otherwise, issue forecasts or other forward-looking statements regarding our future results, including estimated revenues, earnings per share and other financial metrics. We base these forecasts on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable and prudent. However, the use of assumptions necessarily entails the risk that such assumptions may not be accurate. Actual results could be significantly different than the forecasted results as conditions and the occurrence of events may be different than what was assumed. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our actual results will be consistent with the forecasted statements or that there will be no significant variation. 24 Table of Contents We may not realize the total amount of the net sales proceeds from our sale of the workers’ compensation insurance operations. Effective March 31, 2004, we sold our workers’ compensation insurance subsidiaries, consisting of California Indemnity and its wholly-owned insurance subsidiaries. The sales proceeds included a note receivable, which is payable in 2010 and is subject to adjustment based upon the loss and allocated loss adjustment expense development from the closing date through December 31, 2009. Any adjustments due to adverse loss and allocated loss adjustment expense development would be included in continuing operations. Factors such as reinsurers failing to honor their obligations to the workers’ compensation subsidiaries, economic recessions and the resulting higher unemployment rates, over utilization of medical treatments, and the effect of new legislation or regulations could affect the subsidiaries’ loss and allocated loss adjustment expense development. Our sold workers’ compensation insurance subsidiaries had net adverse loss development occur in each of the past years 1999 to 2004 ranging from $8.7 million to $24.0 million. At December 31, 2004, based on actuarially determined reserve analyses, we established a valuation allowance of $15.0 million on the note receivable. There was no change to the valuation allowance in 2005 and 2006. It should be noted that in January 2007 we received a confirmation request from the acquiring company’s auditors, which stated that they are carrying their note payable to Sierra at an amount that is lower than our receivable balance. There is no single correct actuarial method to project workers’ compensation insurance reserves. While we believe that our actuary’s analyses are reasonable and appropriate, there is no assurance that an independent arbitrator will agree with our actuary’s findings when the note receivable is settled in 2010. If an independent arbitrator does not agree with our actuary’s findings, the amount collected on our note receivable could be materially adversely affected. In addition, effective with the close of the sale, the workers’ compensation claims were out-sourced to an independent third party claims administrator (TPA). Part of the TPA’s compensation is subject to satisfactory adherence to certain agreed upon claims administration processes and procedures. While we will audit the claims handling performance of the TPA, we cannot be certain that all of the claims will be administered in the most cost effective manner, which could result in adverse loss development. There is no assurance that we will actually realize or be able to collect the note receivable, as adjusted. We are obligated to perform certain services in connection with the sale of the workers’ compensation insurance operations and the accrual for the estimated contractual funding shortfall may be insufficient, which could result in a material adverse effect on our operating results. The sale of the workers’ compensation insurance operations requires us to perform, be responsible for the performance of, or be financially obligated to pay for, certain transition services through December 31, 2009. This includes certain administrative functions, processing policy transactions, premium collections and other services related to insurance operations. We received a limited amount of funds to perform these services from Cal Indemnity or its successor and we accrued additional liabilities for the projected shortfall in funding. If the amount we accrued for the contractual funding shortfall is understated, our financial results, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 