Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the Company’s common stock involves a high degree of risk.If any of the following risks or other risks, which have not been identified of which we may believe are immaterial or unlikely, actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In such a case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Investors should consider carefully the risks described below and the other information in this report before deciding to invest in the Company’s common stock. If the value of real estate in our core market were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2007, approximately 89.69% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. Our market and the U.S. generally are experiencing a period of reduced real estate values, and if we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. With most of our loans secured by commercial and residential real estate located in northern Georgia, a decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of our real estate collateral. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions in northern Georgia may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. See the disclosure below under “—An economic downturn, especially one affecting our market areas, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.” We make and hold in our portfolio a significant number of land acquisition and development, and construction loans, which pose more credit risk than other types of loans typically made by financial institutions. We offer land acquisition and development and construction loans for builders and developers. As of December 31, 2007, approximately $100.9 million of our loan portfolio represented loans for which the related property is neither presold nor preleased. These land acquisition and development and construction loans are considered more risky than other types of residential mortgage loans. The primary credit risks associated with land acquisition and development and construction lending are underwriting, project risks and market risks. Project risks include cost overruns, borrower credit risk, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, and environmental and other hazard risks. Market risks are risks associated with the sale of the completed residential units. They include affordability risk, which means the risk of affordability of financing by borrowers, product design risk, and risks posed by competing projects. There can be no assurance that losses in our land acquisition and development and construction loan portfolio will not exceed our reserves, which could adversely impact our earnings. Given the current environment, we expect that in 2008, the non-performing loans in our land acquisition and development and construction portfolio could increase substantially and these non-performing loans could result in a material level of charge-offs, which will negatively impact our capital and earnings. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Loans.” Page 10 of 50 Current and anticipated deterioration in the housing market and the homebuilding industry may lead to increased losses and further worsening of delinquencies and non-performing assets in our loan portfolios. Consequently, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. There has been substantial industry concern and publicity over asset quality among financial institutions due in large part to issues related to subprime mortgage lending, declining real estate values and general economic concerns. As of December 31, 2007, our non-performing assets had increased significantly to $29.9 million, or 8.30%, of our loan portfolio plus other real estate owned. Furthermore, the housing and the residential mortgage markets recently have experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, they may lead to additional valuation adjustments in our loan portfolios and other real estate owned as we continue to reassess the market value of our loan portfolio, the losses associated with the loans in default and the net realizable value of other real estate owned. The homebuilding industry has experienced a significant and sustained decline in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale in various markets, including some of the markets in which we lend. Our customers who are builders and developers face greater difficulty in selling their homes in markets where these trends are more pronounced. Consequently, we are facing increased delinquencies and non-performing assets as these builders and developers are forced to default on their loans with us. We do not know when the housing market will improve, and accordingly, additional downgrades, provisions for loan losses and charge-offs related to our loan portfolio may occur. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Nonperforming Assets and Past Due Loans.” An economic downturn, especially one affecting our market areas, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our success depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing development in our primary market areas. If the communities in which we operate do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. Unpredictable economic conditions may have an adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolio and our financial performance. Economic recession over a prolonged period or other economic problems in our market areas could have a material adverse impact on the quality of the loan portfolio and the demand for our products and services. We have already experienced a higher percentage of non-performing loans to total loans in 2007 than in past years based in part on general economic conditions in our market areas. Future adverse changes in the economies in our market areas may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Further, the banking industry in Georgia is affected by general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment and other factors beyond our control. As a community bank, we are less able to spread the risk of unfavorable local economic conditions than larger or more regional banks. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas even if they do occur. Page 11 of 50 The market value of the real estate securing our loans as collateral has been adversely affected by the slowing economy and unfavorable changes in economic conditions in our market areas and could be further adversely affected in the future. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 89.69% of our loans receivable were secured by real estate. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by the adverse market and economic conditions, including the downturn in the real estate market, in our markets will further adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We could suffer loan losses from a decline in credit quality. We could sustain losses if borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. Our underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the quality of our assets, particularly loans. In originating loans, there is a substantial likelihood that credit losses will be experienced. The risk of loss will vary with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the quality of the collateral for the loan. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. We may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover any loan losses that may occur. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classifications, volume and trends in delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions and other pertinent information. If our assumptions are wrong, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover our loan losses, and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses was $2,136,848, or .61% of loans, as of December 31, 2007. We expect to increase our allowance in 2008, but can make no assurance that our allowance will be adequate to cover future loan losses given current and future market conditions. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize future loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Allowance for Loan Losses.” Our profitability is vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations. Our profitability depends substantially upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the interest earned on assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest paid for liabilities, such as savings and time deposits and out-of-market certificates of deposit. Market interest rates for loans, investments and deposits are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control. Recently, interest rate spreads have generally narrowed due to changing market conditions, policies of various government and regulatory authorities and competitive pricing pressures, and we cannot predict whether these rate spreads will narrow even further. This narrowing of interest rate spreads could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Page 12 of 50 At December 31, 2007 we were in an asset sensitive position, which generally, means that changes in interest rates affect our interest earned on assets quicker than our interest paid for liabilities since the rates earned on our assets reset sooner than rates paid on our liabilities. Accordingly, we anticipate that interest rate decreases by the Federal Reserve Bank in the first quarter of 2008 will have a negative affect on our net interest income over the short term until the interest rates paid on our liabilities reset. In addition, we cannot predict whether interest rates will continue to remain at present levels. Changes in interest rates may cause significant changes, up or down, in our net interest income. Depending on our portfolio of loans and investments, our results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Interest Rate Sensitivity.” Even though our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Global Market, it has substantially less liquidity than the average stock quoted on a national securities exchange. The trading volume in our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market is relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the Nasdaq Global Market or stock exchanges. We cannot say with any certainty that a more active and liquid trading market for our common stock will develop. Because of this, it may be more difficult for you to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which you could sell a smaller number of shares, and you may not be able to sell your shares at all. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. As a result, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, or the potential for such sales, could cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our future ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. Our operations may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that our current capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations could be materially impaired. Competition from other financial institutions may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience strong competition from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other financial institutions, which operate in our primary market areas and elsewhere. Our market areas are served principally by community and regional banks. Page 13 of 50 We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established and much larger financial institutions. We may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size and lack of geographic diversification, and we have no assurance that our competitive strategy will be successful. Our business strategy includes the continuation of growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We intend to continue pursuing a growth strategy for our business. Our ability to grow successfully will depend on a variety of factors, including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in growth stages of development. We cannot assure you we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or future prospects, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our plans for future expansion depend, in some instances, on factors beyond our control, and an unsuccessful attempt to achieve growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We may engage in new branch expansion in the future. We may also seek to acquire other financial institutions, or parts of those institutions, though we have no present plans in that regard. Expansion involves a number of risks, including: • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices; • the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; • we may not be able to finance an acquisition without diluting the interests of our existing shareholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction may detract from their business productivity; • we may enter into new markets where we lack experience; and § we may introduce new products and services with which we have no prior experience into our business. If we fail to retain our key employees, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. Our success is, and is expected to remain, highly dependent on our executive management team of Habersham Bank, consisting of our Chief Executive Officer, David Stovall, and our President, Edward D. Ariail. This is particularly true because, as a community bank, we depend on our management team’s ties to the community to generate business for us. Our operations will continue to place significant demands on our management, and the loss of any such person’s services may have an adverse effect upon our growth and profitability. Page 14 of 50 Our directors and executive officers own a significant portion of our common stock and can influence stockholder decisions. Our directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially owned approximately 46.3% of our fully diluted outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2007. As a result of their ownership, the directors and executive officers will have the ability, if they voted their shares in concert, to influence the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. We are subject to extensive policies and regulations that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, which limitations or restrictions could adversely affect our profitability. As a bank holding company, we are primarily regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve Board”). Our subsidiary bank is primarily regulated by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) and the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance. Our compliance with the Federal Reserve Board, FDIC and Department of Banking and Finance regulations is costly and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capital requirements of our regulators. Our financial condition and results of operations are also affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. Actions by monetary and fiscal authorities could have an adverse effect on our deposit levels, loan demand or business and earnings. The policies, laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government policy and regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. As a community bank, we have different lending risks than larger banks. We provide services to our local communities. Our ability to diversify our economic risks is limited by our own local markets and economies. We lend primarily to small to medium-sized businesses, and, to a lesser extent, individuals which may expose us to greater lending risks than those of banks lending to larger, better-capitalized businesses with longer operating histories. We manage our credit exposure through careful monitoring of loan applicants and loan concentrations in particular industries, and through loan approval and review procedures. We have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. The classification of loans and the establishment of the allowance for loan losses is an estimate based on experience, judgment and expectations regarding our borrowers, the economies in which we and our borrowers operate, as well as the judgment of our regulators. We cannot be certain that our loan loss reserves will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. See “--If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Allowance for Loan Losses.” Page 15 of 50 Our recent results may not be indicative of our future results, and may not provide guidance to assess the risk of an investment in our common stock. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow our business at all. In the future, we may not have the benefit of several favorable factors, such as a generally increasing interest rate environment, a strong residential mortgage market or the ability to find suitable expansion opportunities. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to a high percentage of our operating costs being fixed expenses. Natural disasters could negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. The economy of northern Georgia is affected, from time to time, by tornadoes and other natural disasters. We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, damage caused by these events will affect our operations, our customers or the economies in our banking markets. However, weather events could cause a decline in loan originations, destruction or decline in the value of properties securing our loans, or an increase in the risks of delinquencies, foreclosures and loan losses. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None Item 