Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the Company’s common stock involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following risks other risks, which have not been identified of which we may believe are immaterial or unlikely, actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In such a case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Investors should consider carefully the risks described below and the other information in this report before deciding to invest in the Company’s common stock. Page 12 of 56 Declines in real estate values have adversely affected our credit quality and profitability. During 2008, confidence in the credit market for residential housing finance significantly eroded, which resulted in a reduction in financing available to buyers of new homes and borrowers wishing to refinance existing financing terms. The tightening of credit for residential housing led to lower demand for residential housing and more foreclosures, and has reduced the absorption rate for new and existing properties. In turn, this tightening of credit has caused market prices to fall as some property owners, including lenders who acquired property by foreclosure, have accepted lower prices to reduce their exposure to these real estate assets, which has reduced the market values for comparable real estate. The declines in values and the increased level of marketing required to sell properties has reduced or eliminated the potential profits to many of the builders and developers of properties to whom we have extended loans. As a result, some of these borrowers have been unable to repay their loans in accordance with their terms, which has led to an increase in our past due and non-performing loans. If these housing trends continue or exacerbate, the Company expects that it will continue to experience increased delinquencies and credit losses. In addition, declining real estate and other asset values may reduce the available equity associated with these assets, which, in turn, would limit the ability of borrowers to use such equity to support borrowings. Moreover, if the current recession continues, the Company may be required to further increase our loan loss provision, and may experience significantly higher delinquencies and credit losses. An increase in our loan loss provision or increased credit losses would reduce earnings and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. Furthermore, to the extent that real estate collateral is obtained through foreclosure, the costs of holding and marketing the real estate collateral, as well as the ultimate values obtained from disposition, could reduce the Company’s earnings and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. The Company’s business volume and growth is affected by the rate of growth and demand for housing in specific geographic markets, and most of its loans are secured by real estate located in northern Georgia, which is continuing to experience high rates of foreclosures and declining real estate prices and property values. Based on the activity discussed above, the Company’s future rate of growth, if any, could be significantly less than its historical levels and its assets may in fact shrink, depending on the duration and extent of the current disruption in the housing and mortgage markets. Page 13 of 56 We make and hold in our portfolio a significant number of land acquisition and development and construction loans, which pose more credit risk than other types of loans typically made by financial institutions. We offer land acquisition and development, and construction loans for builders and developers. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $148 million, or 46%, of our total loan portfolio represented loans for which the related property is neither presold nor preleased. These land acquisition and development, and construction loans are considered more risky than other types of loans. The primary credit risks associated with land acquisition and development and construction lending are underwriting, project risks, and market risks. Project risks include cost overruns, borrower credit risk, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, and environmental and other hazard risks. Market risks are risks associated with the sale of the completed residential units. They include affordability risk, which means the risk that borrowers cannot obtain affordable financing, product design risk, and risks posed by competing projects. There can be no assurance that losses in our land acquisition and development and construction loan portfolio will not exceed our reserves, which could adversely impact our earnings. Given the current environment, the non-performing loans in our land acquisition and development and construction portfolio could increase substantially in 2009, and these non-performing loans could result in a material level of charge-offs, which will negatively impact our capital and earnings. Ongoing deterioration in the housing market and the homebuilding industry may lead to increased losses and further worsening of delinquencies and non-performing assets in our loan portfolios. Consequently, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. There has been substantial industry concern and publicity over asset quality among financial institutions due in large part to issues related to subprime mortgage lending, declining real estate values and general economic concerns. As of December 31, 2008, our non-performing assets increased significantly to $84.2 million, or 25%, of our loan portfolio plus other real estate owned. Furthermore, the housing and the residential mortgage markets recently have experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, they may lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the market value of our loan portfolio, the losses associated with the loans in default, and the net realizable value of real estate owned. The homebuilding industry has experienced a significant and sustained decline in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale in various markets, including some of the markets in which we lend. Our customers who are builders and developers face greater difficulty in selling their homes in markets where these trends are more pronounced. Consequently, we are facing increased delinquencies and non-performing assets as these builders and developers are forced to default on their loans with us. We do not know when the housing market will improve, and accordingly, additional downgrades, provisions for loan losses, and charge-offs related to our loan portfolio may occur. Weakness in the economy and in the real estate market, including specific weakness within our geographic footprint, has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. Declines in the U.S. economy and our local real estate markets contributed to our increasing provisions for loan losses during 2008, and may result in additional loan losses and loss provisions for 2009. These factors could result in further increases in loan loss provisions, and additional delinquencies, charge-offs, or both in future periods, any of which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If the strength of the U.S. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we conduct operations continue to decline, this could result in, among other things, further deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant adverse effect on our loan portfolio and additional increases to our allowance for loan and lease losses. Page 14 of 56 In addition, deterioration of the U.S. economy may adversely impact our banking business more generally. Economic declines may be accompanied by a decrease in demand for consumer or commercial credit and declining real estate and other asset values. Declining real estate and other asset values may reduce the ability of borrowers to use such equity to support borrowings. Delinquencies, foreclosures and losses generally increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. Additionally, our servicing costs, collection costs, and credit losses may also increase in periods of economic slowdown or recessions. Effects of the current real estate slowdown have not been limited to those directly involved in the real estate construction industry (such as builders and developers). Rather, it has impacted a number of related businesses such as building materials suppliers, equipment leasing firms, and real estate attorneys, among others, and the current recession has negatively impacted businesses of all types. All of these affected businesses have banking relationships, and when their businesses suffer from an economic slowdown or recession, the banking relationship suffers as well. The amount of “other real estate owned” (“OREO”) increased significantly in 2008 and may continue to increase, resulting in additional losses and expenses that will negatively affect our operations. At December 31, 2007, we had a total of $11.5 million of OREO, and at December 31, 2008, we had a total of $27.3 million of OREO, reflecting a $15.8 million increase, or 138%, from 2007 to 2008. This increase in OREO is due, among other things, to the continued deterioration of the residential real estate market and the tightening of the credit market. As the amount of OREO increases, our losses, and the costs and expenses to maintain the real estate likewise increase. Due to the on-going economic crisis, the amount of OREO may continue to increase throughout 2009. Any additional increase in losses, and maintenance costs and expenses due to OREO may have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Such effects may be particularly pronounced in a market of reduced real estate values and excess inventory, which may make the disposition of OREO properties more difficult, increase maintenance costs and expenses, and reduce our ultimate realization from any OREO sales. We could suffer loan losses from a decline in credit quality. We could sustain losses if borrowers, guarantors, and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for credit losses that we believe are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, which may require us to take a charge to our earnings and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain an allowance for estimated loan losses that we believe is adequate for absorbing any probable losses in our loan portfolio. Management determines the allowance for loan losses based upon an analysis of general market conditions, credit quality of our loan portfolio, and performance of our customers relative to their financial obligations to us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating, and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control. These future losses may exceed the allowance for estimated loan losses. Although management believes that the allowance for estimated loan losses is adequate to absorb any probable losses on existing loans that may become uncollectible, there can be no assurance that the allowance will prove sufficient to cover actual loan losses in the future. Significant increases to the provision for loan losses may be necessary if material adverse changes in general economic conditions occur or the performance of our loan portfolio deteriorates. Additionally, federal banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review the allowance for estimated loan losses. If these regulatory agencies require us to increase the allowance for estimated loan losses, it would have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Page 15 of 56 Our profitability is vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations. Our profitability depends substantially upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the interest earned on assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest paid for liabilities, such as savings and time deposits and out-of-market certificates of deposit. Market interest rates for loans, investments, and deposits are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control. Recently, interest rate spreads have generally narrowed due to changing market conditions, policies of various government and regulatory authorities, and competitive pricing pressures, and we cannot predict whether these rate spreads will narrow even further. This narrowing of interest rate spreads could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2008 we were in a liability sensitive position, which generally means that changes in interest rates affect our interest paid on liabilities quicker than our interest earned on assets because the rates paid on our liabilities reset sooner than rates earned on our assets. Accordingly, we anticipate that any interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve throughout 2009 will have a negative affect on our net interest income over the short term until the interest rates earned on our assets reset. In addition, we cannot predict whether interest rates will continue to remain at present levels. Changes in interest rates may cause significant changes, up or down, in our net interest income. Depending on our portfolio of loans and investments, our results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. The FDIC Deposit Insurance assessments that we are required to pay may materially increase in the future, which would have an adverse effect on our earnings. As an insured depository institution, we are required to pay quarterly deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. These assessments are required to ensure that FDIC deposit insurance reserve ratio is at least 1.15% of insured deposits. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC, absent extraordinary circumstances, must establish and implement a plan to restore the deposit insurance reserve ratio to 1.15% of insured deposits, over a five-year period, when the reserve ratio falls below 1.15%. The recent failures of several financial institutions have significantly increased the Deposit Insurance Fund’s loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the reserve ratio. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured institution failures in the next few years, which may result in a continued decline in the reserve ratio. Beginning on January 1, 2009, there was a uniform seven basis points (annualized) increase to the assessments that banks pay for deposit insurance. The increased assessment rates range from 12 to 50 basis points (annualized) for the first quarter 2009 assessment, which will be owed on June 30, 2009. Beginning on April 1, 2009, the FDIC will modify the risk-based assessments to account for each institution’s unsecured debt, secured liabilities and use of brokered deposits. Assessment rates will range from 7 to 77.5 basis points (annualized) starting with the second quarter 2009 assessments, which will be owed on September 30, 2009. In addition, the FDIC has adopted an interim rule to impose an emergency assessment of 20 basis points as of June 30, 2009, which will be owed on September 30, 2009. The FDIC may also impose additional emergency special assessments of up to 10 basis points thereafter if the reserve ratio is estimated to fall to a level that the FDIC believes would adequately affect public confidence or to a level that shall be close to zero or negative at the end of a calendar quarter. Page 16 of 56 Due to the recent increases in the assessment rates, and the potential for additional increases, we will be required to pay additional amounts to the Deposit Insurance Fund throughout 2009, which could have an adverse effect on our earnings. If the deposit insurance premium assessment rate applicable to us increases again, either because of our risk classification, because of emergency assessments, or because of another uniform increase, our earnings could be further adversely impacted. The Company’s ability to pay dividends is limited and we may be unable to pay future dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock may be your sole opportunity for gains on your investment for the foreseeable future. We have suspended dividend payment on our common stock and make no assurances that we will pay any dividends in the future. Any future determination relating to dividend policy will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on a number of factors, including our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, regulatory restrictions, and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. The holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends when, and if declared by our Board of Directors out of funds legally available for that purpose. As part of our consideration to pay cash dividends, we intend to retain adequate funds from future earnings to support the development and growth of our business. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is restricted by federal policies and regulations. It is the policy of the Federal Reserve Board that bank holding companies should pay cash dividends on common stock only out of net income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. Further, our principal source of funds to pay dividends is cash dividends that we receive from the Bank, and Georgia Department of Banking and Finance regulations prohibit the Bank from paying dividends in 2009. See Item 5—“Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.” Competition from other financial institutions may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience strong competition from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other financial institutions, which operate in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well established and much larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size and lack of geographic diversification. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary market area with local advertisements, personal contacts, and greater flexibility in working with local customers, we can give no assurance that this strategy will be successful. The impact of the current economic downturn on the performance of other financial institutions in our geographic area, actions taken by our competitors to address the current economic downturn, and the public perception of and confidence in the economy generally, and the banking industry specifically, could negatively impact our performance and operations. All financial institutions are subject to the same risks resulting from a weakening economy such as increased charge-offs and levels of past due loans and nonperforming assets. As troubled institutions in our market area continue to dispose of problem assets, the already excess inventory of residential homes and land lots will continue to negatively affect home values and increase the time it takes us or our borrowers to sell existing inventory. Additionally, the perception that smaller, community banking institutions are risky institutions for purposes of regulatory compliance or safeguarding deposits may cause depositors, nonetheless to move their funds to larger institutions. If our depositors should move their funds based on events happening at other financial institutions, our operating results would suffer. Page 17 of 56 Negative publicity about financial institutions, generally, or about the Company or Bank, specifically, could damage the Company’s reputation and adversely impact its business operations and financial results. Reputation risk, or the risk to our business from negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from the actual or alleged conduct of financial institutions, generally, or the Company or Bank, specifically, in any number of activities, including leasing practices, corporate governance, and actions taken by government regulators in response to those activities. Negative publicity can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action, any of which could negatively affect our business operations or financial results. We are subject to liquidity risk in our operations. Liquidity risk is the possibility of being unable, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances, to pay obligations as they come due, to capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise, or to pay regular dividends because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding on a timely basis. Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit obligations to borrowers, mortgage originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of debt, dividends to shareholders, operating expenses, and capital expenditures. Liquidity is derived primarily from retail deposit growth and retention, principal and interest payments on loans and investment securities, net cash provided from operations, and access to other funding sources. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally affect our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole, given the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwide credit markets. Adverse market conditions and future losses may require us to raise additional capital to support our operations, but that capital may not be available when it is needed, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations could be materially impaired. Page 18 of 56 Our business strategy includes the continuation of growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We intend to continue pursuing a growth strategy for our business. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses, and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in growth stages of development. We cannot assure you we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or future prospects, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to grow successfully will depend on a variety of factors including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to manage our future growth, there can be no assurance that growth opportunities will be available or growth will be managed successfully. Our plans for future expansion depend, in some instances, on factors beyond our control, and an unsuccessful attempt to achieve growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects. We expect to continue to engage in new branch expansion. We may also seek to acquire other financial institutions, or parts of those institutions, though we have no present plans in that regard. Expansion involves a number of risks, including the following: • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management, and opening new offices; • the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; • our potential inability to finance an acquisition without diluting the interests of our existing shareholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction may detract from their business productivity; • entering into new markets where we may lack experience; and • introducing into our business new products and services with which we have no prior experience. If we fail to retain our key employees, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. Our success is, and is expected to remain, highly dependent on our executive management team, consisting of our Chief Executive Officer, David D. Stovall; our President, Edward D. Ariail; and our Chief Operating Officer, Bonnie Bowling. This is particularly true because, as a community bank, we depend on our management team’s ties to the community to generate business for us. Our growth will continue to place significant demands on our management, and the loss of any such person’s services may have an adverse effect upon our growth and profitability. Page 19 of 56 Our directors and executive officers own a significant portion of our common stock and can influence stockholder decisions. Our directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially owned approximately 48.6% of our fully diluted outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2008. As a result of their ownership, the directors and executive officers will have the ability, if they voted their shares in concert, to influence the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors. Even though our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Global Market, it has substantially less liquidity than the average stock quoted on a national securities exchange. The trading volume in our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market is relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the Nasdaq Global Market or other stock exchanges. We cannot say with any certainty that a more active and liquid trading market for our common stock will develop. Because of this, it may be more difficult for you to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which you could sell a smaller number of shares, and you may not be able to sell your shares at all. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or their availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. As a result, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, or the potential for such sales, could cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our future ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, which limitations or restrictions could adversely affect our profitability. As a bank holding company, we are primarily regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve Board”). Our subsidiary bank is primarily regulated by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) and the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance. Our compliance with Federal Reserve Board, FDIC, and Department of Banking and Finance regulations is costly and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capital requirements of our regulators. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. The rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC that currently apply to us, together with related exchange rules and regulations, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices. Additional legislation or regulations, or amendments to current legislation or regulations, related to corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure may cause us to experience greater compliance costs. Natural disasters or other adverse weather events could negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Georgia’s economy is affected, from time to time, by tornadoes and other natural disasters. We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, damage caused by these events will affect our operations, our customers, or the economies in our banking markets. However, weather events could cause a decline in loan originations, destruction or decline in the value of properties securing our loans, or an increase in the risks of delinquencies, foreclosures, and loan losses. Page 20 of 56 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. Item 