Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the Company’s common stock involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following risks other risks, which have not been identified of which we may believe are immaterial or unlikely, actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In such a case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward- looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Investors should consider carefully the risks described below and the other information in this report before deciding to invest in the Company’s common stock. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s report discloses a going concern issue for the Company. Our financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the discharge of liabilities in the normal course of business for the foreseeable future. However, due to our financial results, the substantial uncertainty throughout the U.S. banking industry and other matters discussed in this report, our independent public accountants have expressed in their opinion on our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report that a substantial doubt exists regarding the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Management’s plans in addressing the issues that raise substantial doubt regarding the Bank’s ability to continue as a going concern are addressed in Note 3 of the Notes t o Consolidated Financial Statements. See “—We are subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny and are currently under a regulatory order that imposes additional requirements and restrictions on our business” below and “Supervision and Regulation—Prompt Corrective Action” for a discussion of the regulatory restrictions and requirements to which we are currently subject. We are subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny and the Bank is currently under a consent order that imposes additional requirements and restrictions on our business. We are primarily regulated by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the GDBF. Our compliance with Federal Reserve, FDIC and GDBF regulations is costly and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capital requirements of our regulators. Based on the results of our September 22, 2008 regulatory examination, particularly with respect to our levels of capital and classified assets, the GDBF and FDIC have required the Bank to enter into a Cease and Desist Order. The order includes provisions requiring reductions in classified assets, improvements in liquidity and funds management practices, maintenance of an appropriate allowance for loan losses and specified capital ratios, dividend and bonus restrictions, amendments to our policies and frequent progress reports to regulatory authorities, as well as other provisions to help us improve our financial condition and profitability. Under the order, the Bank must achieve and maintain total risk-based capit al at or above 10% of total risk-weighted assets, and Tier 1 capital at or above 8% of total assets. If we do not comply with the terms of this order, we could face additional regulatory sanctions or civil money penalties. See “Supervision and Regulation—Regulatory Order” for a further description of the order. Page 14 of 57 In addition, we are currently classified as "significantly undercapitalized" for regulatory capital purposes. As a result, we are subject to enhanced regulatory supervision, both under the order described above and under FDIC regulations. For example, we must obtain regulatory approval to add or replace directors or executive officers; obtain prior regulatory approval for new business lines, acquisitions, branch purchases and other significant transactions; submit a capital restoration plan for regulatory review; and comply with regulatory limitations on the amount of severance or “golden parachute” payments we are permitted to make. We are also unable to accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits absent a waiver from the FDIC. This limits our access to funding sources and could adversely affect our liquidity and net interest margin. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $48.9 million in out of market deposits, including brokered deposits, which represented approximately 12.53% of our total deposits. If we are unable to continue to attract deposits and maintain sufficient liquidity, our ability to meet our obligations, including the payout of deposit accounts would be adversely affected. If our liquidity becomes severely impaired and we are unable to meet our financial obligations, including the payout of deposit accounts, or if our capital levels become unacceptable to our banking regulators, the Bank could be placed into receivership and you could lose the entire amount of your investment. Additionally, we are prohibited from paying rates in excess of 75 basis points above the local market average on deposits of comparable maturity. Effective January 1, 2010, financial institutions that are not well capitalized are prohibited, except in very limited circumstances where the FDIC permits use of a higher local market rate, from paying yields for deposits in excess of 75 basis points above a new national average rate for deposits of comparable maturity, as calculated by the FDIC. This national rate may be lower than the prevailing rates in our local market, and although the FDIC has permitted us to use the local market rate, the FDIC could revoke this determination in the future. If restrictions on the rates we are able to pay on deposit acco unts negatively impacts our ability to compete for deposits in our market area, we may be unable to attract or maintain core deposits, and our liquidity and ability to support demand for loans could be adversely affected. The company is also subject to regulatory restrictions on its operations. The Federal Reserve has notified the Company in a letter dated March 10, 2010 that the Company must obtain Federal Reserve approval before incurring indebtedness, paying interest or dividends on trust preferred securities, declaring or paying any dividends, redeeming corporate stock, or making other payments representing a reduction in capital outside of normal operating expenses. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Declines in real estate values have adversely affected our credit quality and profitability. During 2008 and 2009, confidence in the credit market for residential housing finance significantly eroded, which resulted in a reduction in financing available to buyers of new homes and borrowers wishing to refinance existing financing terms. The tightening of credit for residential housing led to lower demand for residential housing and more foreclosures, and has reduced the absorption rate for new and existing properties. In turn, this tightening of credit has caused market prices to fall as some property owners, including lenders who acquired property by foreclosure, have accepted lower prices to reduce their exposure to these real estate assets, which has reduced the market values for comparable real estate. Page 15 of 57 The declines in values and the increased level of marketing required to sell properties has reduced or eliminated the potential profits to many of the builders and developers of properties to whom we have extended loans. As a result, some of these borrowers have been unable to repay their loans in accordance with their terms, which has led to an increase in our past due and non-performing loans. If these housing trends continue or exacerbate, the Company expects that it will continue to experience increased delinquencies and credit losses. In addition, declining real estate and other asset values may reduce the available equity associated with these assets, which, in turn, would limit the ability of borrowers to use such equity to support borrowings. Moreover, if the current recession continues, the Company may be required to further increase our loan loss provision, and may experience significantly higher delinquencies and credit losses. An increase in our loan loss provision or increased credit losses would reduce earnings and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. Furthermore, to the extent that real estate collateral is obtained through foreclosure, the costs of holding and marketing the real estate collateral, as well as the ultimate values obtained from disposition, could reduce the Company’s earnings and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. The Company’s business volume and growth is affected by the rate of growth a nd demand for housing in specific geographic markets, and most of its loans are secured by real estate located in northern Georgia, which is continuing to experience high rates of foreclosures and declining real estate prices and property values. Based on the activity discussed above, the Company’s future rate of growth, if any, could be significantly less than its historical levels and its assets may in fact shrink, depending on the duration and extent of the current disruption in the housing and mortgage markets. We make and hold in our portfolio a significant number of land acquisition and development and construction loans, which pose more credit risk than other types of loans typically made by financial institutions. We offer land acquisition and development, and construction loans for builders and developers. As of December 31, 2009, approximately $107.7 million, or 38.89%, of our total loan portfolio represented loans for which the related property is neither presold nor preleased. These land acquisition and development, and construction loans are considered more risky than other types of loans. The primary credit risks associated with land acquisition and development and construction lending are underwriting, project risks, and market risks. Project risks include cost overruns, borrower credit risk, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, and environmental and other hazard risks. Market risks are risks associated with the sale of the completed residential units. They include affordability risk, which means the risk that borrowers cannot obtain affordable financing, product design risk, and risks posed by competing projects. There can be no assurance that losses in our land acquisition and development and construction loan portfolio will not exceed our reserves, which could adversely impact our earnings. Given the current environment, the non-performing loans in our land acquisition and development and construction portfolio could increase substantially in 2010, and these non-performing loans could result in a material level of charge-offs, which will negatively impact our capital and earnings. Ongoing deterioration in the housing market and the homebuilding industry may lead to increased losses and further worsening of delinquencies and non-performing assets in our loan portfolios. Consequently, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. There has been substantial industry concern and publicity over asset quality among financial institutions due in large part to issues related to subprime mortgage lending, declining real estate values and general economic concerns. As of December 31, 2009, our non-performing assets had increased significantly to $110.4 million, or 35.06%, of our loan portfolio plus other real estate owned. Furthermore, the housing and the residential mortgage markets recently have experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, they may lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the market value of our loan portfolio, the losses associated with the loans in default, and the net realizable value of real estate own ed. Page 16 of 57 The homebuilding industry has experienced a significant and sustained decline in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale in various markets, including some of the markets in which we lend. Our customers who are builders and developers face greater difficulty in selling their homes in markets where these trends are more pronounced. Consequently, we are facing increased delinquencies and non-performing assets as these builders and developers are forced to default on their loans with us. We do not know when the housing market will improve, and accordingly, additional downgrades, provisions for loan losses, and charge-offs related to our loan portfolio may occur. Weakness in the economy and in the real estate market, including specific weakness within our geographic footprint, has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. Declines in the U.S. economy and our local real estate markets contributed to our significant provisions for loan losses during 2009, and may result in additional loan losses and loss provisions for 2010. These factors could result in further increases in loan loss provisions, and additional delinquencies, charge-offs, or both in future periods, any of which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If the strength of the U.S. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we conduct operations continue to decline, this could result in, among other things, further deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant adverse effect on our loan portfolio and additional increases to our allowance for loan and lease losses.< /div> In addition, deterioration of the U.S. economy may adversely impact our banking business more generally. Economic declines may be accompanied by a decrease in demand for consumer or commercial credit and declining real estate and other asset values. Declining real estate and other asset values may reduce the ability of borrowers to use such equity to support borrowings. Delinquencies, foreclosures and losses generally increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. Additionally, our servicing costs, collection costs, and credit losses may also increase in periods of economic slowdown or recessions. Effects of the current real estate slowdown have not been limited to those directly involved in the real estate construction industry (such as builders and developers). Rather, it has impacted a number of related businesses such as building materials suppliers, equipment leasing firms, and real estate attorneys, among others, and the current recession has negatively impacted businesses of all types. All of these affected businesses have banking relationships, and when their businesses suffer from an economic slowdown or recession, the banking relationship suffers as well. The amount of “other real estate owned” (“OREO”) increased significantly in 2008 and 2009 and may continue to increase, resulting in additional losses and expenses that will negatively affect our operations. At December 31, 2009, we had a total of $37.8 million of OREO, and at December 31, 2008, we had a total of $27.3 million of OREO, reflecting a $10.5 million increase, or 38.40% from 2008 to 2009. This increase in OREO is due, among other things, to the continued deterioration of the residential real estate market and the tightening of the credit market. As the amount of OREO increases, our losses, and the costs and expenses to maintain the real estate likewise increase. Due to the on-going economic crisis, the amount of OREO may continue to increase throughout 2010. Any additional increase in losses, and maintenance costs and expenses due to OREO may have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Such effects may be particularly pronoun ced in a market of reduced real estate values and excess inventory, which may make the disposition of OREO properties more difficult, increase maintenance costs and expenses, and reduce our ultimate realization from any OREO sales. Page 17 of 57 We could suffer loan losses from a decline in credit quality. We could sustain losses if borrowers, guarantors, and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for credit losses that we believe are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the quality of our assets, particularly loans. In originating loans, there is a substantial likelihood that we will experience credit losses. The risk of loss will vary with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the quality of the collateral for the loan. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. As a result, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover any loan losses that may occur. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classification, volume and t rends in delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions, and other pertinent information. If our assumptions are wrong, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses, and we may need to make adjustments to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. In view of the difficult real estate market, we maintained our allowance at $12.2 million at December 31, 2008 and $12.1 million at December 31, 2009. Although charge-off activity may periodically decrease our allowance, we may also make additions to our allowance in 2010 in response to continued credit deterioration. However, given current and future market conditions, we can make no assurance that our allowance will be adequate to cover future loan losses. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulators could have a negative effect on our operating results. The deterioration in the residential mortgage market may continue to spread to commercial credits, which may result in greater losses and non-performing assets, adversely affecting our business operations. The losses that were initially associated with subprime residential mortgages rapidly spread into the residential mortgage market generally. If the losses in the residential mortgage market continue to spread to commercial credits, then we may be forced to take greater losses or retain more non-performing assets. Our business operations and financial results could be adversely affected if we continue to experience losses from our commercial loan portfolio. Page 18 of 57 We will realize additional future losses if the proceeds we receive upon liquidation of non-performing assets are less than the fair value of such assets. Non-performing assets are recorded on our financial statements at fair value, as required under GAAP, unless these assets have been specifically identified for liquidation, in which case they are recorded at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. In current market conditions, we are likely to realize additional future losses if the proceeds we receive upon dispositions of non-performing assets are less than the recorded fair value of such assets. Our use of appraisals in deciding whether to make a loan on or secured by real property or how to value such loan in the future may not accurately describe the net value of the real property collateral that we can realize. In considering whether to make a loan secured by real property, we generally require an appraisal of the property. However, an appraisal is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made, and, as real estate values in our market area have experienced changes in value in relatively short periods of time, this estimate might not accurately describe the net value of the real property collateral after the loan has been closed. If the appraisal does not reflect the amount that may be obtained upon any sale or foreclosure of the property, we may not realize an amount equal to the indebtedness secured by the property. The valuation of the property may negatively impact the continuing value of such loan and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our profitability is vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations. Our profitability depends substantially upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the interest earned on assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest paid for liabilities, such as savings and time deposits and out-of-market certificates of deposit. Market interest rates for loans, investments, and deposits are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control. Recently, interest rate spreads have generally narrowed due to changing market conditions, policies of various government and regulatory authorities, and competitive pricing pressures, and we cannot predict whether these rate spreads will narrow even further. This narrowing of interest rate spreads could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2009 we were in a liability sensitive position, which generally means that changes in interest rates affect our interest paid on liabilities more quickly than our interest earned on assets because the rates paid on our liabilities reset sooner than rates earned on our assets. Accordingly, we anticipate that any interest rate increases by the Federal Reserve throughout 2010 will have a negative effect on our net interest income over the short term until the interest rates earned on our assets reset. In addition, we cannot predict whether interest rates will continue to remain at present levels. Changes in interest rates may cause significant changes, up or down, in our net interest income. Depending on our portfolio of loans and investments, our results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums or remit special assessments that could adversely affect our earnings. Market developments have significantly depleted the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”) and reduced its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC’s assessment rates are intended to result in a reserve ratio of at least 1.15%. By December 31, 2009, the ratio had fallen well below this floor. The FDIC is required to return the DIF to its statutorily mandated minimum reserve ratio of 1.15 percent within eight years, and has undertaken several initiatives to satisfy this requirement. Page 19 of 57 On September 30, 2009, the FDIC collected a one-time special assessment of five basis points of an institution’s assets minus tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. The amount of the special assessment could not exceed ten basis points times the institution’s assessment base for the second quarter 2009. In addition, on November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule that required nearly all FDIC-insured depository institutions to prepay their DIF assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for the next three years. There can be no guarantee that continued pressures on the DIF will not result in additional special assessments being collected by the FDIC in the future. If we are required to pay significantly higher premiums or additional special assessments in the future, our ear nings could be adversely affected. A further downgrade in our regulatory condition could also cause our assessment to materially increase. We have suspended dividends on our common stock and may be unable to pay future dividends. We have suspended dividend payment on our common stock and make no assurances that we will pay any dividends in the future. Any future determination relating to dividend policy will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on a number of factors, including our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, regulatory restrictions, and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is restricted by federal policies and regulations. It is the policy of the Federal Reserve Board that bank holding companies should pay cash dividends on common stock only out of net income available over the past year and only if the prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condi tion. We are also precluded from declaring or paying any dividends without prior Federal Reserve approval under the terms of a March 12, 2010 letter from the Federal Reserve. Further, our principal source of funds to pay dividends is cash dividends that we receive from the Bank, and GDBF regulations and the terms of the order prohibit the Bank from paying dividends without prior regulatory approval. See Item 5—”Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.” Competition from other financial institutions may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience strong competition from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other financial institutions, which operate in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well established and much larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size and lack of geographic diversification, as well as restrictions on the deposit interest rates we can pay. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary market area with local advertisements, personal contacts, and greater flexibility in working with local customers, we can give no assurance that this strategy will be successful. Page 20 of 57 The impact of the current economic downturn on the performance of other financial institutions in our geographic area, actions taken by our competitors to address the current economic downturn, and the public perception of and confidence in the economy generally, and the banking industry specifically, could negatively impact our performance and operations. All financial institutions are subject to the same risks resulting from a weakening economy such as increased charge-offs and levels of past due loans and nonperforming assets. As troubled institutions in our market area continue to dispose of problem assets, the already excess inventory of residential homes and land lots will continue to negatively affect home values and increase the time it takes us or our borrowers to sell existing inventory. Additionally, the perception that smaller, community banking institutions are risky institutions for purposes of regulatory compliance or safeguarding deposits may cause depositors, nonetheless to move their funds to larger institutions. If our depositors should move their funds based on events happening at other financial institutions, our operating results would suffer. In addition, reputation risk, or the risk to our business from negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from the actual or alleged conduct of financial institutions, generally, or the Company or Bank, specifically, in any number of activities, including leasing practices, corporate governance, and actions taken by government regulators in response to those activities. Negative publicity can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action, any of which could negatively affect our business operations or financial results. We are subject to liquidity risk in our operations. Liquidity risk is the possibility of being unable, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances, to pay obligations as they come due, to capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise, or to pay regular dividends because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding on a timely basis. Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit obligations to borrowers, mortgage originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of debt, dividends to shareholders, operating expenses, and capital expenditures. Liquidity is derived primarily from retail deposit growth and retention, principal and interest payments on loans and investment securities, net cash provided from operations and access to other funding sources. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole, given the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwide credit markets. As a result of our present regulatory capital status, our access to additional borrowed funds is currently limited, and, to the extent such funds may be available to us, we may be required to pay above market rates for additional borrowed funds, which may adversely affect our results of operations. In the past, we have relied to some extent on the use of brokered deposits to provide liquidity and support our lending activities. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $10.1 million in brokered deposits, which represented approximately 2.58% of our total deposits. We intend to continue to utilize our core, in-market deposits as our primary source of liquidity and to reduce or even eliminate our use of brokered deposits over time. However, should we require additional liquidity in the future while we are prohibited from renewing, rolling over, or funding additional brokered deposits as a result of regulatory restrictions, we may become subject to acute liquidity stress unless we are able to improve our regulatory status to remove this restriction and regain access to brokered funds, replace matur ing brokered deposits with core deposits or other non-brokered funding or otherwise reduce our liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our liquidity needs as a result of competition in the marketplace, regulatory restrictions to which we are subject, or for any other reason, our operations could be materially adversely affected. If our liquidity position should become critically inadequate, our ability to continue as a going concern could be threatened. Page 21 of 57 Adverse market conditions and future losses may require us to raise additional capital to support our operations, but that capital may not be available when it is needed, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our financial performance could be materially impaired and we could become subject to further regulatory restriction on our operations, which could in turn decrease significantly or eliminate the value of our securities. If we fail to retain our key employees, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. Our success is, and is expected to remain, highly dependent on our executive management team, consisting of our Chief Executive Officer, David D. Stovall, and our Chief Operating Officer, Bonnie Bowling. This is particularly true because, as a community bank, we depend on our management team’s ties to the community to generate business for us. Our growth will continue to place significant demands on our management, and the loss of any such person’s services may have an adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. Our directors and executive officers own a significant portion of our common stock and can influence stockholder decisions. Our directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially owned approximately 44.9% of our fully diluted outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2009. As a result of their ownership, the directors and executive officers will have the ability, if they voted their shares in concert, to influence significantly the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. Environmental liability associated with lending activities could result in losses. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing our loans. If hazardous substances are discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental entities or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site, even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially limit the use of properties that we ac quire through foreclosure, reduce their value, or limit our ability to sell them in the event of a default on the loans they secure. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Page 22 of 57 Confidential customer information transmitted through the Bank’s online banking service is vulnerable to security breaches and computer viruses, which could expose the Bank to litigation and adversely affect its reputation and ability to generate deposits. The Bank provides its customers with the ability to bank online. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is a critical element of online banking. The Bank’s network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes, and other security problems. The Bank may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that the Bank’s activities or the activities of its clients involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose the Bank to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. 0;Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing clients to lose confidence in the Bank’s systems and could adversely affect its reputation and its ability to generate deposits. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, which limitations or restrictions could adversely affect our profitability. As a bank holding company, we are primarily regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. Our subsidiary bank is primarily regulated by the FDIC and the GDBF. Our compliance with Federal Reserve Board, FDIC, and GDBF regulations is costly and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capital requirements of our regulators. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. The rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC that currently apply to us, together with related exchange rules and regulations, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices. Additional legislation or regulations, or amendments to current legislation or regulations, related to corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure may cause us to experience greater compliance costs. Natural disasters or other adverse weather events could negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Georgia’s economy is affected, from time to time, by tornadoes and other natural disasters. We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, damage caused by these events will affect our operations, our customers, or the economies in our banking markets. However, weather events could cause a decline in loan originations, destruction or decline in the value of properties securing our loans, or an increase in the risks of delinquencies, foreclosures, and loan losses. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. Page 23 of 57 