Risk Factors - Competition from Other Financial Institutions May Adversely Affect our Profitability.” Employees As of December 31, 2005, the Company had 162 full-time equivalent employees. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is a party to any collective bargaining agreement. In the opinion of management, the Company and its subsidiaries enjoy satisfactory relations with their respective employees. Supervision & Regulation Both the Company and the Bank are subject to extensive state and federal banking regulations that impose restrictions on and provide for general regulatory oversight of their operations. These laws generally are intended to protect depositors and not shareholders. The following discussion describes the material elements of the regulatory framework that applies to us. The Company Because it owns all of the capital stock of the Bank, the Company is a bank holding company under the federal Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the “BHC Act”). As a result, we are primarily subject to the supervision, examination and reporting requirements of the BHC Act and the regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”). As a bank holding company located in Georgia, the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance (the “GDBF”) also regulates and monitors all significant aspects of our operations. Page 3 of 75 Acquisitions of Banks. The BHC Act requires every bank holding company to obtain the Federal Reserve’s prior approval before: · acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank if, after the acquisition, the bank holding company will directly or indirectly own or control more than 5% of the bank’s voting shares; · acquiring all or substantially all of the assets of any bank; or · merging or consolidating with any other bank holding company. Additionally, the BHC Act provides that the Federal Reserve may not approve any of these transactions if it would result in or tend to create a monopoly or, substantially lessen competition or otherwise function as a restraint of trade, unless the anti-competitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed by the public interest in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. The Federal Reserve is also required to consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding companies and banks concerned. The Federal Reserve’s consideration of financial resources generally focuses on capital adequacy, which is discussed below. Under the BHC Act, if we are adequately capitalized and adequately managed, we may purchase a bank located outside of Georgia. However, the laws of the other state may impose restrictions on the acquisition of a bank that has only been in existence for a limited amount of time or that would result in specified concentrations of deposits. For example, Georgia law prohibits a bank holding company from acquiring control of a bank until the target bank has been incorporated for more than three years. Because the Bank has been chartered for more than three years, this restriction would not limit our ability to sell. Change in Bank Control. Subject to various exceptions, the BHC Act and the Change in Bank Control Act, together with related regulations, require Federal Reserve approval prior to any person or company acquiring “control” of a bank holding company. Control is conclusively presumed to exist if an individual or company acquires 25% or more of any class of voting securities of a bank holding company. Control is rebuttably presumed to exist if a person or company acquires 10% or more, but less than 25%, of any class of voting securities and either: · the bank holding company has registered securities under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; or · no other person owns a greater percentage of that class of voting securities immediately after the transaction. The regulations provide a procedure for challenging any rebuttable presumption of control. Permitted Activities. A bank holding company is generally permitted under the BHC Act to engage in, or acquire direct or indirect control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any company engaged in, the following activities: · banking or managing or controlling banks; and · any activity that the Federal Reserve determines to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident to the business of banking. Activities that the Federal Reserve has found to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident to the business of banking include: · factoring accounts receivable; · making, acquiring, brokering or servicing loans and usual related activities; · leasing personal or real property; Page 4 of 75 · operating a non-bank depository institution, such as a savings association; · trust company functions; · financial and investment advisory activities; · conducting discount securities brokerage activities; · underwriting and dealing in government obligations and money market instruments; · providing specified management consulting and counseling activities; · performing selected data processing services and support services; · acting as agent or broker in selling credit life insurance and other types of insurance in connection with credit transactions; and · performing selected insurance underwriting activities. The Federal Reserve may order a bank holding company or its subsidiaries to terminate any of these activities or to terminate its ownership or control of any subsidiary when it has reasonable cause to believe that the bank holding company’s continued ownership, activity or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness, or stability of it or any of its bank subsidiaries. In addition to the permissible bank holding company activities listed above, a bank holding company may qualify and elect to become a financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999. A financial holding company may engage in additional activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to financial activity. The BHC Act expressly lists the following activities as financial in nature: · lending, trust and other banking activities; · insuring, guaranteeing, or indemnifying against loss or harm, or providing and issuing annuities, and acting as principal, agent, or broker for these purposes, in any state; · providing financial, investment, or advisory services; · issuing or selling instruments representing interests in pools of assets permissible for a bank to hold directly; · underwriting, dealing in or making a market in securities; · other activities that the Federal Reserve may determine to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident to managing or controlling banks; · foreign activities permitted outside of the United States if the Federal Reserve has determined them to be usual in connection with banking operations abroad; · merchant banking through securities or insurance affiliates; and · insurance company portfolio investments. To qualify to become a financial holding company, the Bank and any other depository institution subsidiary of the Company is required to be well capitalized and well managed and have a Community Reinvestment Act rating of at least “satisfactory.” Additionally, we would be required to file an election with the Federal Reserve to become a financial holding company and provide the Federal Reserve with 30 days’ written notice prior to engaging in a permitted financial activity. While we meet the qualification standards applicable to financial holding companies, we have not elected to become a financial holding company at this time. Support of Subsidiary Institution. Under Federal Reserve policy, we are expected to act as a source of financial strength for the Bank and to commit resources to support the Bank. This support may be required at times when, without this Federal Reserve policy, we might not be inclined to provide it. In addition, any capital loans made by us to the Bank will be repaid only after its deposits and various other obligations are repaid in full. In the unlikely event of our bankruptcy, any commitment by us to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of the Bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. Page 5 of 75 The Bank The Bank is subject to extensive state and federal banking regulations that impose restrictions on and provide for general regulatory oversight of our operations. These laws are generally intended to protect depositors and not shareholders. The following discussion describes the material elements of the regulatory framework that applies to us. Since the Bank is a commercial bank chartered under the laws of the State of Georgia, it is primarily subject to the supervision, examination and reporting requirements of the FDIC and the GDBF. The FDIC and the GDBF regularly examine the Bank’s operations and have the authority to approve or disapprove mergers, the establishment of branches and similar corporate actions. Both regulatory agencies have the power to prevent the continuance or development of unsafe or unsound banking practices or other violations of law. Additionally, the Bank’s deposits are insured by the FDIC to the maximum extent provided by law. The Bank is also subject to numerous state and federal statutes and regulations that affect its business, activities and operations. Branching. Under current Georgia law, the Bank may open branch offices throughout Georgia with the prior approval of the GDBF. In addition, with prior regulatory approval, the Bank may acquire branches of existing banks located in Georgia. The Bank and any other national or state-chartered bank generally may branch across state lines by merging with banks in other states if allowed by the target states’ laws. Georgia law, with limited exceptions, currently permits branching across state lines through interstate mergers. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, states may “opt-in” and allow out-of-state banks to branch into their state by establishing a new start-up branch in the state. Currently, Georgia has not opted-in to this provision. Therefore, interstate merger is the only method through which a bank located outside of Georgia may branch into Georgia. This provides a limited barrier of entry into the Georgia banking market, which protects us from an important segment of potential competition. However, because Georgia has elected not to opt-in, our ability to establish a new start-up branch in another state is limited. Many states that have elected to opt-in have done so on a reciprocal basis, meaning that an out-of-state bank may establish a new start-up branch only if its home state has also elected to opt-in. Consequently, until Georgia changes its election, the only way we will be able to branch into states that have elected to opt-in on a reciprocal basis will be through interstate merger. Prompt Corrective Action. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (the “FDIC Improvement Act”) established a system of prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of undercapitalized financial institutions. Under this system, the federal banking regulators have established five capital categories (well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized) in which all institutions are placed. The federal banking agencies have specified by regulation the relevant capital level for each category. Federal banking regulators are required to take various mandatory supervisory actions and are authorized to take other discretionary actions with respect to institutions in the three undercapitalized categories. The severity of the action depends upon the capital category in which the institution is placed. Generally, subject to a narrow exception, the banking regulator must appoint a receiver or conservator for an institution that is critically undercapitalized. Page 6 of 75 An institution that is categorized as undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized is required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan to its appropriate federal regulator. A bank holding company must guarantee that a subsidiary depository institution meets its capital restoration plan, subject to various limitations. The controlling holding company’s obligation to fund a capital restoration plan is limited to the lesser of 5% of an undercapitalized subsidiary’s assets at the time it became undercapitalized or the amount required to meet regulatory capital requirements. An undercapitalized institution is also generally prohibited from increasing its average total assets, making acquisitions, establishing any branches or engaging in any new line of business, except under an accepted capital restoration plan or with FDIC approval. The regulations also establish procedures for downgrading an institution to a lower capital category based on supervisory factors other than capital. FDIC Insurance Assessments. The FDIC has adopted a risk-based assessment system for insured depository institutions that takes into account the risks attributable to different categories and concentrations of assets and liabilities. The system assigns an institution to one of three capital categories: (1) well capitalized, (2) adequately capitalized, or (3) undercapitalized. These three categories are substantially similar to the prompt corrective action categories described above, with the “undercapitalized” category including institutions that are undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized for prompt corrective action purposes. The FDIC also assigns an institution to one of three supervisory subgroups based on a supervisory evaluation that the institution’s primary federal regulator provides to the FDIC and information that the FDIC determines to be relevant to the institution’s financial condition and the risk posed to the deposit insurance funds. Assessments range from 0 to 27 cents per $100 of deposits, depending on the institution’s capital group and supervisory subgroup. In addition, the FDIC imposes assessments to help pay off the $780 million in annual interest payments on the $8 billion Financing Corporation bonds issued in the late 1980s as part of the government rescue of the thrift industry. This assessment rate is adjusted quarterly and is set at $1.32 cents per $100 of deposits for the first quarter of 2006. The FDIC may terminate its insurance of deposits if it finds that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. Community Reinvestment Act. The Community Reinvestment Act requires that, in connection with examinations of financial institutions within their respective jurisdictions, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC or the OCC shall evaluate the record of each financial institution in meeting the credit needs of its local community, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. These facts are also considered in evaluating mergers, acquisitions and applications to open a branch or facility. Failure to adequately meet these criteria could impose additional requirements and limitations on the Bank. Additionally, we must publicly disclose the terms of various Community Reinvestment Act-related agreements. Other Regulations. Interest and other charges collected or contracted for by the Bank are subject to state usury laws and federal laws concerning interest rates. For example, under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, which amended the Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Civil Relief Act of 1940, a lender is generally prohibited from charging an annual interest rate in excess of 6% on any obligation of a borrower who is on active duty with the United States military. The Bank’s loan operations are also subject to federal laws applicable to credit transactions, such as: · the Federal Truth-In-Lending Act, governing disclosures of credit terms to consumer borrowers; · the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975, requiring financial institutions to provide information to enable the public and public officials to determine whether a financial institution is fulfilling its obligation to help meet the housing needs of the community it serves; · the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, creed or other prohibited factors in extending credit; Page 7 of 75 · the Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1978, as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, governing the use and provision of information to credit reporting agencies, certain identify theft protections, and certain credit and other disclosures; · the Fair Debt Collection Act, governing the manner in which consumer debts may be collected by collection agencies; and · the rules and regulations of the various federal agencies charged with the responsibility of implementing these federal laws. The deposit operations of the Bank are subject to: · the Right to Financial Privacy Act, which imposes a duty to maintain confidentiality of consumer financial records and prescribes procedures for complying with administrative subpoenas of financial records; and · the Electronic Funds Transfer Act and Regulation E issued by the Federal Reserve to implement that act, which govern automatic deposits to and withdrawals from deposit accounts and customers’ rights and liabilities arising from the use of automated teller machines and other electronic banking services. Capital Adequacy The Company and the Bank are required to comply with the capital adequacy standards established by the Federal Reserve, in the case of the Company, and the FDIC, in the case of the Bank. The Federal Reserve has established a risk-based and a leverage measure of capital adequacy for bank holding companies. So long as the Company’s consolidated total assets are less than $500 million, under the Federal Reserve’s capital guidelines adopted on February 27, 2006, our capital adequacy will be measured on a bank-only basis, as opposed to a consolidated basis. The Bank is also subject to risk-based and leverage capital requirements adopted by the FDIC, which are substantially similar to those adopted by the Federal Reserve for bank holding companies. The risk-based capital standards are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off-balance-sheet exposure, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off-balance-sheet items, such as letters of credit and unfunded loan commitments, are assigned to broad risk categories, each with appropriate risk weights. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets and off-balance-sheet items. The minimum guideline for the ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets is 8%. Total capital consists of two components: Tier 1 Capital and Tier 2 Capital. Tier 1 Capital generally consists of common stock, minority interests in the equity accounts of consolidated depository institution subsidiaries, noncumulative perpetual preferred stock in consolidated non-depository subsidiaries and a limited amount of qualifying cumulative perpetual preferred stock, less goodwill and other specified intangible assets. Tier 1 Capital must equal at least 4% of risk-weighted assets. Tier 2 Capital generally consists of subordinated debt, other preferred stock and a limited amount of loan loss reserves. The total amount of Tier 2 Capital is limited to 100% of Tier 1 Capital. At December 31, 2005, the Bank’s ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets was 13.49% and the ratio of Tier 1 Capital to risk-weighted assets was 12.37%. In addition, the Federal Reserve has established minimum leverage ratio guidelines for bank holding companies. These guidelines provide for a minimum ratio of Tier 1 Capital to average assets, less goodwill and other specified intangible assets, of 3% for bank holding companies that meet specified criteria, including having the highest regulatory rating and implementing the Federal Reserve’s risk-based capital measure for market risk. All other bank holding companies generally are required to maintain a leverage ratio of at least 4%. At December 31, 2005, our leverage ratio was 10.30%. The guidelines also provide that bank holding companies experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions will be expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels without reliance on intangible assets. The Federal Reserve considers the leverage ratio and other indicators of capital strength in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities. Page 8 of 75 Failure to meet capital guidelines could subject a bank or bank holding company to a variety of enforcement remedies, including issuance of a capital directive, the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC, a prohibition on accepting brokered deposits and certain other restrictions on its business. As described above, significant additional restrictions can be imposed on FDIC-insured depository institutions that fail to meet applicable capital requirements. Payment of Dividends The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank. The principal sources of the Company’s cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to its shareholders, are dividends that the Bank pays to the Company as its sole shareholder. Statutory and regulatory limitations apply to the Bank’s payment of dividends to the Company as well as to the Company’s payment of dividends to its shareholders. A federal banking regulator may require, after notice and a hearing, that the Bank stop or refrain from engaging in any practice it considers unsafe or unsound. The federal banking agencies have indicated that paying dividends that deplete a depository institution’s capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. Under the FDIC Improvement Act, a depository institution may not pay any dividend if payment would cause it to become undercapitalized or if it already is undercapitalized. Moreover, the federal agencies have issued policy statements that provide that bank holding companies and insured banks should generally only pay dividends out of current operating earnings. See “The Bank—Prompt Corrective Action.” The GDBF also regulates the Bank’s dividend payments and must approve dividend payments that would exceed 50% of the Bank’s net income for the prior year. Our payment of dividends may also be affected or limited by other factors, such as the requirement to maintain adequate capital above regulatory guidelines. At December 31, 2005, the Bank could pay cash dividends without prior regulatory approval. Restrictions on Transactions with Affiliates The Company and the Bank are subject to the provisions of Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act. Section 23A places limits on the amount of: · a bank’s loans or extensions of credit to affiliates; · a bank’s investment in affiliates; · assets a bank may purchase from affiliates, except for real and personal property exempted by the Federal Reserve; · loans or extensions of credit made by a bank to third parties collateralized by the securities or obligations of affiliates; and · a bank’s guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit issued on behalf of an affiliate. The total amount of the above transactions is limited in amount, as to any one affiliate, to 10% of a bank’s capital and surplus and, as to all affiliates combined, to 20% of a bank’s capital and surplus. In addition to the limitation on the amount of these transactions, each of the above transactions must also meet specified collateral requirements. The Bank must also comply with other provisions designed to avoid the taking of low-quality assets. Page 9 of 75 The Company and the Bank are also subject to the provisions of Section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, which, among other things, prohibit an institution from engaging in the above transactions with affiliates unless the transactions are on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the institution or its subsidiaries, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with nonaffiliated companies. The Bank is also subject to restrictions on extensions of credit to its executive officers, directors, principal shareholders and their related interests. These extensions of credit (1) must be made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with third parties, and (2) must not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features. Privacy Financial institutions are required to disclose their policies for collecting and protecting confidential information. Customers generally may prevent financial institutions from sharing nonpublic personal financial information with nonaffiliated third parties except under narrow circumstances, such as the processing of transactions requested by the consumer or when the financial institution is jointly sponsoring a product or service with a nonaffiliated third party. Additionally, financial institutions generally may not disclose consumer account numbers to any nonaffiliated third party for use in telemarketing, direct mail marketing or other marketing to consumers. Anti-Terrorism and Money Laundering Legislation The Bank is subject to the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the “USA PATRIOT Act”), as it amended the Bank Secrecy Act and the rules and regulations of the Office of Foreign Assets Control (the “OFAC”). These statutes and related rules and regulations impose requirements and limitations on specific financial transactions and account relationships, intended to guard against money laundering and terrorism financing. The Bank has established a customer identification program pursuant to Section 326 of the USA PATRIOT Act and the Bank Secrecy Act, and otherwise has implemented policies and procedures to comply with the foregoing rules. Federal Deposit Insurance Reform On February 8, 2006, President Bush signed the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 (“FDIRA”). The FDIC must adopt rules implementing the various provisions of FDIRA by November 5, 2006. Among other things, FDIRA changes the Federal deposit insurance system by: · raising the coverage level for retirement accounts to $250,000; · indexing deposit insurance coverage levels for inflation beginning in 2012; · prohibiting undercapitalized financial institutions from accepting employee benefit plan deposits; · merging the Bank Insurance Fund and Savings Association Insurance Fund into a new Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”); and · providing credits to financial institutions that capitalized the FDIC prior to 1996 to offset future assessment premiums. Page 10 of 75 FDIRA also authorizes the FDIC to revise the current risk-based assessment system, subject to notice and comment, and caps the amount of the DIF at 1.50% of domestic deposits. The FDIC must issue cash dividends, awarded on a historical basis, for the amount of the DIF over the 1.50% ratio. Additionally, if the DIF exceeds 1.35% of domestic deposits at year-end, the FDIC must issue cash dividends, awarded on a historical basis, for half of the amount of the excess. Proposed Legislation and Regulatory Action New regulations and statutes are regularly proposed that contain wide-ranging potential changes to the structures, regulations and competitive relationships of financial institutions operating and doing business in the United States. We cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed regulation or statute will be adopted or the extent to which our business may be affected by any new regulation or statute. Effect of Governmental Monetary Policies Our earnings are affected by domestic economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States government and its agencies. The Federal Reserve has, and is likely to continue to have, an important impact on the operating results of commercial banks through its power to implement national monetary policy in order, among other things, to curb inflation or combat a recession. The Federal Reserve affects the levels of bank loans, investments and deposits through its control over the issuance of United States government securities, its regulation of the discount rate applicable to member banks, and its influence over reserve requirements to which member banks are subject. We cannot predict the nature or impact of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the Company’s common stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors should consider carefully the risks described below and the other information in this report before deciding to invest in the Company’s common stock. An economic downturn, especially one affecting our market areas, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our success depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our primary market areas. If the communities in which we operate do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. Unpredictable economic conditions may have an adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolio and our financial performance. Economic recession over a prolonged period or other economic problems in our market areas could have a material adverse impact on the quality of the loan portfolio and the demand for our products and services. Future adverse changes in the economies in our market areas may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Further, the banking industry in Georgia is affected by general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment and other factors beyond our control. As a community bank, we are less able to spread the risk of unfavorable local economic conditions than larger or more regional banks. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas even if they do occur. If the value of real estate in our core market were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Page 11 of 75 At December 31, 2005, approximately 90.55% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. With most of our loans secured by commercial and residential real estate, a decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of our real estate collateral. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions in northern Georgia may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. Opening new offices may not result in increased assets or revenues for us. The investment necessary for branch expansion may negatively impact our efficiency ratio. There is a risk that we will be unable to manage our growth, as the process of opening new branches may divert our time and resources. There is also risk that we may fail to open any additional branches, and a risk that, if we do open these branches, they may not be profitable which would negatively impact our results of operations. Competition from other financial institutions may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience strong competition from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other financial institutions, which operate in our primary market areas and elsewhere. Our market areas are served principally by community and regional banks. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established and much larger financial institutions. We may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size and lack of geographic diversification, and we have no assurance that our competitive strategy will be successful. If we fail to retain our key employees, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. Our success is, and is expected to remain, highly dependent on our executive management team of Habersham Bank, consisting of our Chief Executive Officer, David Stovall, and our President, Edward D. Ariail. This is particularly true because, as a community bank, we depend on our management team’s ties to the community to generate business for us. Our operations will continue to place significant demands on our management, and the loss of any such person’s services may have an adverse effect upon our growth and profitability. Our directors and executive officers own a significant portion of our common stock and can influence stockholder decisions. Our directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially owned approximately 46.84% of our fully diluted outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2005. As a result of their ownership, the directors and executive officers will have the ability, if they voted their shares in concert, to influence the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. Page 12 of 75 We could suffer loan losses from a decline in credit quality. We could sustain losses if borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. Our underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. We may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover any loan losses that may occur. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classifications, volume and trends in delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions and other pertinent information. If our assumptions are wrong, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover our loan losses, and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses was $3,944,525, or 1.23% of loans, as of December 31, 2005. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize future loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our profitability is vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations. Our profitability depends substantially upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the interest earned on assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest paid for liabilities, such as savings and time deposits and out-of-market certificates of deposit. Market interest rates for loans, investments and deposits are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control. Recently, interest rate spreads have generally narrowed due to changing market conditions, policies of various government and regulatory authorities and competitive pricing pressures, and we cannot predict whether these rate spreads will narrow even further. This narrowing of interest rate spreads could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot predict whether interest rates will continue to remain at present levels. Changes in interest rates may cause significant changes, up or down, in our net interest income. Depending on our portfolio of loans and investments, our results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Even though our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq National Market, it has substantially less liquidity than the average stock quoted on a national securities exchange. The trading volume in our common stock on the Nasdaq National Market is relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the Nasdaq National Market or stock exchanges. We cannot say with any certainty that a more active and liquid trading market for our common stock will develop. Because of this, it may be more difficult for you to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which you could sell a smaller number of shares, and you may not be able to sell your shares at all. Page 13 of 75 We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. As a result, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, or the potential for such sales, could cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our future ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. Our business strategy includes the continuation of growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We intend to continue pursuing a growth strategy for our business. Our ability to grow successfully will depend on a variety of factors, including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in growth stages of development. We cannot assure you we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or future prospects, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our plans for future expansion depend, in some instances, on factors beyond our control, and an unsuccessful attempt to achieve growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We may engage in new branch expansion in the future. We may also seek to acquire other financial institutions, or parts of those institutions, though we have no present plans in that regard. Expansion involves a number of risks, including: • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices; • the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; • we may not be able to finance an acquisition without diluting the interests of our existing shareholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction may detract from their business productivity; • we may enter into new markets where we lack experience; and • we may introduce new products and services with which we have no prior experience into our business. Additional growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Page 14 of 75 We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that our current capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations could be materially impaired. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, which limitations or restrictions could adversely affect our profitability. As a bank holding company, we are primarily regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve Board”). Our subsidiary bank is primarily regulated by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) and the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance. Our compliance with the Federal Reserve Board, FDIC and Department of Banking and Finance regulations is costly and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capital requirements of our regulators. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Changes in monetary policies may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. Actions by monetary and fiscal authorities, could have an adverse effect on our deposit levels, loan demand or business and earnings. As a community bank, we have different lending risks than larger banks. We provide services to our local communities. Our ability to diversify our economic risks is limited by our own local markets and economies. We lend primarily to small to medium-sized businesses, and, to a lesser extent, individuals which may expose us to greater lending risks than those of banks lending to larger, better-capitalized businesses with longer operating histories. We manage our credit exposure through careful monitoring of loan applicants and loan concentrations in particular industries, and through loan approval and review procedures. We have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. The classification of loans and the establishment of the allowance for loan losses is an estimate based on experience, judgment and expectations regarding our borrowers, the economies in which we and our borrowers operate, as well as the judgment of our regulators. We cannot be certain that our loan loss reserves will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our recent results may not be indicative of our future results, and may not provide guidance to assess the risk of an investment in our common stock. Page 15 of 75 We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow our business at all. In the future, we may not have the benefit of several recently favorable factors, such as a generally increasing interest rate environment, a strong residential mortgage market or the ability to find suitable expansion opportunities. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to a high percentage of our operating costs being fixed expenses. Natural disasters could negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. The economy of northern Georgia is affected, from time to time, by tornadoes and other natural disasters. We cannot predict whether, or to what extent, damage caused by these events will affect our operations, our customers or the economies in our banking markets. However, weather events could cause a decline in loan originations, destruction or decline in the value of properties securing our loans, or an increase in the risks of delinquencies, foreclosures and loan losses. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None Item 