ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s results may be adversely affected if it suffers higher than expected losses on its loans or is required to increase its allowance for loan losses. The Company assumes credit risk from the possibility that it will suffer losses because borrowers, guarantors, and related parties fail to perform under the terms of their loans. Management tries to minimize and monitor this risk by adopting and implementing what management believes are effective underwriting and credit policies and procedures, including how the Company establishes and reviews the allowance for loan losses. The allowance for loan losses is determined by continuous analysis of the loan portfolio and the analytical process is regularly reviewed and adjustments may be made based on the assessments of internal and external influences on credit quality. Those policies and procedures may still not prevent unexpected losses that could adversely affect our results. Weak economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of collateral securing those loans. In addition, deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, changes in regulation and regulatory interpretation and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. See “Loan Portfolio,” “Non-Performing Loans,” “Summary of Loan Losses and Allowance for Loan Losses” and notes 1 and 4 to our consolidated financial statements contained in this Form 10-K for further discussion related to our loan portfolio and our process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. A failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. During April 2011, management identified possible deficiencies and/or weaknesses in the Company’s internal controls related to the design and implementation of policies to promptly identify problem loans and to quantify the elements of risk in problem loans. After conducting an internal review, management determined that there were material weaknesses related to the allowance for loan losses, financial reporting staffing resources, interdepartmental communications and governance and management accountability. These material weaknesses have been remediated and no longer exist as of December 31, 2012. See Part II, Item 9A—Controls and Procedures contained in this Form 10-K. A failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could affect our results of operations or financial condition. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and its operations and income may be affected adversely by changes in laws and regulations governing its operations. The Company is subject to extensive regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board, the OCC and the FDIC. Such regulators govern the activities in which the Company may engage. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on a bank’s operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, new regulations or legislation or additional deposit insurance premiums could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operations. Any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or growth prospects. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Company may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Recent financial reforms and related regulations may affect our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. The Dodd-Frank Act could result in additional legislative or regulatory action. For a Description of the Dodd-Frank Act see Part I, Item 1 – Business, “Supervision and Regulation—The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act” contained in this Form 10-K. At this time, it is difficult to predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act or the resulting regulations will impact the Company’s business. However, compliance with these new laws and regulations will likely result in additional costs, and these additional costs may adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. 8 Table of Contents Failure to comply with the Bank’s written formal agreement (the “Agreement”) with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”) may result in further regulatory enforcement actions. On October 25, 2010, the Bank, following discussion with the OCC, entered into the Agreement with the OCC. The Agreement requires the Bank to take certain actions, including a review of management, the establishment of a three-year strategic plan and capital program, and the establishment of programs related to internal audit, maintaining an adequate allowance for loan losses, real property appraisal, credit risk management, credit concentrations, Bank Secrecy Act compliance and information technology. While subject to the Agreement, the Company expects that its and the Bank’s management and Board of Directors will be required to focus a substantial amount of time on complying with its terms. There also is no guarantee that the Bank will be able to fully comply with the Agreement. If the Bank fails to comply with the terms of the Agreement, it could be subject to further regulatory enforcement actions. An increase in the Company’s allowance for loan losses would negatively impact capital levels and could make it difficult to maintain the capital levels directed by the OCC. The Bank is subject to individual minimum capital ratios (“IMCRs”) established by the OCC requiring Tier 1 leverage capital equal to at least 8.00% of adjusted average assets; Tier 1 risk-based capital equal to at least 10.50% of risk-weighted assets; and total risk-based capital equal to at least 12.00% of risk-weighted assets. The Bank met all three IMCRs at December 31, 2012: Tier 1 capital was 9.74% of adjusted average assets, Tier 1 risk-based capital was 16.79% of risk-weighted assets, and total risk-based capital was 18.05% of risk-weighted assets. Further increases to the Company’s allowance for loan losses, however, would negatively impact the Bank’s capital levels and could make it difficult to maintain the capital levels directed by the OCC. If the Bank fails to maintain the minimum required capital levels, it could be subject to further regulatory enforcement actions. As a bank holding company that conducts substantially all of its operations through its banking subsidiary, our ability to pay dividends to stockholders depends upon the results of operations of the Bank and its ability to pay dividends to the Company. Dividends paid by the Bank are subject to limits imposed by law and regulation and are restricted by the Agreement with the OCC. Substantially all of the Company’s activities are conducted through the Bank, and the Company receives substantially all of its funds through dividends from the Bank. The Company’s ability to pay dividends to stockholders depends on the Bank’s ability to pay dividends to the Company. Various laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Company. In addition, under the Agreement with the OCC, the Bank is required to establish a dividend policy that will permit the declaration of a dividend only when the Bank is in compliance with its capital program and with the prior written determination of no supervisory objection by the OCC. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company will not be able to pay dividends to its stockholders. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s ability to generate net income depends primarily upon our net interest income. Net interest income is income that remains after deducting, from total income generated by earning assets, the interest expense attributable to the acquisition of the funds required to support earning assets. Income from earning assets includes income from loans, investment securities and short-term investments. The amount of interest income is dependent on many factors including the volume of earning assets, the general level of interest rates, the dynamics of the change in interest rates and the levels of non-performing loans. The cost of funds varies with the amount of funds necessary to support earning assets, the rates paid to attract and hold deposits, rates paid on borrowed funds and the levels of non-interest-bearing demand deposits and equity capital. Different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, at different times, to changes in market interest rates. Management expects that the Company will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest-rate sensitivities of its assets and liabilities. That means either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest earning assets, or vice versa. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce our net interest income. Likewise, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. Management is unable to predict changes in market interest rates which are affected by many factors beyond our control including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets. Net interest income is not only affected by the level and direction of interest rates, but also by the shape of the yield curve, relationships between interest sensitive instruments and key driver rates, as well as balance sheet growth, client loan and deposit preferences and the timing of changes in these variables. Management attempts to manage risk from changes in market interest rates, in part, by controlling the mix of interest rate-sensitive assets and interest rate-sensitive liabilities. Management reviews the Company's interest rate risk position and modifies its strategies based on projections to minimize the impact of future interest rate changes. However, interest rate risk management techniques are not exact. A rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Potential impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill could negatively impact our earnings and capital. At December 31, 2012, the Company had goodwill totaling $814 thousand. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Given the current economic environment, we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to our normal annual assessment if we experience disruption in our business and/or sustained market capitalization declines. These types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future. These non-cash impairment charges could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition in future periods. The Company is subject to risks associated with taxation. The amount of income taxes the Company is required to pay on its earnings is based on federal and state legislation and regulations. The Company provides for current and deferred taxes in its financial statements, based on its results of operations, business activity, legal structure, interpretation of tax statutes, assessment of risk of adjustment upon audit, and application of financial accounting standards. The Company may take tax return filing positions for which the final determination of tax is uncertain. The Company’s net income and earnings per share may be reduced if a federal, state, or local authority assesses additional taxes that have not been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. There can be no assurance that the Company will achieve its anticipated effective tax rate either due to a change in tax law, a change in regulatory or judicial guidance, or an audit assessment that denies previously recognized tax benefits. Tax provisions of New York State Article 32 allow banking corporations to exclude from income 60% of the dividends it has received from subsidiaries such as a REIT. On various occasions over the course of a number of years, the tax commissioner of New York State has proposed the elimination of this provision, raising the question for New York State banking corporations as to whether this exclusion would remain in effect. Going forward, the Company may not realize the benefits of the exclusion from income of 60% of the dividends received from the REIT, resulting in a higher effective state income tax rate. The Company’s financial condition and results of operations are dependent on the economy, as well as competition from other banks. Changing economic conditions could adversely impact the Company’s earnings and increase the credit risk of the Company’s loan portfolio. The Company’s primary market area is in Suffolk County, New York. Adverse economic conditions in that market area could reduce the Company’s rate of growth, affect customers’ ability to repay loans and result in higher levels of loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures and a decline in the values of the collateral securing the Company’s loans, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. General economic conditions, including inflation, unemployment and money supply fluctuations, also may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, competition in the banking industry is intense, and the Company’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in its market. The Company is subject to significant operational risks. Operational risk is the risk of loss from operations, including fraud by employees or outside persons, employees’ execution of incorrect or unauthorized transactions, data processing and technology errors or hacking and breaches of internal control systems. The Company operates many different financial service functions and relies on the ability of its employees, third-party vendors and systems to process a significant number of transactions. Liquidity risk could impair the Company’s ability to fund operations and jeopardize its financial condition. Liquidity is essential to the Company’s business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on the Company’s liquidity. The Company’s access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance its activities or on terms that are acceptable to it could be impaired by factors that affect the Company specifically or the banking industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact the Company’s access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of its business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which its loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against the Company. The Company’s ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to it, such as a disruption in the financial markets. The Company may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. The Company is required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. At some point, the Company may need to raise additional capital. If the Company raises additional capital, it may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, its common stock. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or convertible securities to new stockholders would be dilutive to the Company’s current stockholders. 10 Table of Contents The Company’s ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside the Company’s control, and on the Company’s financial performance. Accordingly, the Company cannot be assured of its ability to raise additional capital if needed or to raise capital on terms acceptable to the Company. If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, its ability to further expand its operations could be materially impaired and its financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. The Company is subject to risks associated with litigation. The Company is subject to litigation risks as a result of a number of factors and from various sources. Substantial legal liability against the Company could have a material adverse effect or cause significant reputational harm to the Company. For a description of the litigation risks that the Company faces, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” The price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly, making it difficult to resell shares of the Company’s common stock at times and prices that stockholders may find attractive. The Company cannot predict how its common stock will trade in the future. The market value of the Company’s common stock will likely continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors including the following, many of which are beyond the Company’s control, as well as the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in the Company’s operating and financial results; • developments related to investigations, proceedings or litigation involving the Company; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by financial analysts; • dispositions, acquisitions and financings; • actions of the Company’s current stockholders, including sales of common stock by existing stockholders and the Company’s directors and executive officers; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of the Company’s competitors; • regulatory developments; and • developments related to the financial services industry. The market value of the Company’s common stock may also be affected by conditions affecting the financial markets in general, including price and trading fluctuations. These conditions may result in volatility in the market prices of stocks generally and, in turn, the Company’s common stock and sales of substantial amounts of the Company’s common stock in the market, in each case that could be unrelated or disproportionate to changes in the Company’s operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market value of the Company’s common stock. There may be future sales of additional common stock or other dilution of the Company’s stockholders’ equity, which may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company is not restricted from issuing additional common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or any substantially similar securities. The market value of the Company’s common stock could decline as a result of sales by the Company of a large number of shares of common stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact the Company’s stockholders. Provisions in the Company’s charter and bylaws, the corporate law of the State of New York and federal laws and regulations could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring the Company, despite the possible benefit to its stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. These provisions include the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Company’s Board of Directors and for proposing matters that stockholders may act on at stockholder meetings; and the requirement that directors fill vacancies on the Company’s Board of Directors. In addition, the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, together with federal regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either regulatory approval must be obtained or notice must be furnished to the appropriate regulatory agencies and not disapproved prior to any person or entity acquiring “control” of a national bank, such as the Bank. These provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that may be attractive to stockholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for the Company’s common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for holders of the Company’s common stock to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by the Company’s Board of Directors. The Company’s loan portfolio has a high concentration of real estate loans, and its business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential and commercial real estate and a decline in property values. 11 Table of Contents At December 31, 2012, $598 million, or 76% of the Company’s total gross loan portfolio, was secured by residential and commercial mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. Although real estate prices have shown signs of improvement during 2012, a decline in real estate values may reduce the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans and increase the risk that the Company would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 