ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Suffolk’s results may be adversely affected if it continues to suffer higher than expected losses on its loans or is required to further increase its allowance for loan losses. Suffolk assumes credit risk from the possibility that Suffolk will suffer losses because borrowers, guarantors, and related parties fail to perform under the terms of their loans. Management tries to minimize and monitor this risk by adopting and implementing what management believes are effective underwriting and credit policies and procedures, including how Suffolk establishes and reviews the allowance for loan losses. The allowance for loan losses is determined by continuous analysis of the loan portfolio and the analytical process is regularly reviewed and adjustments may be made based on the assessments of internal and external influences on credit quality. Those policies and procedures may still not prevent unexpected losses that could adversely affect our results. Weak economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of collateral securing those loans. In addition, deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, changes in regulation and regulatory interpretation and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. See the sections captioned “Loan Portfolio,” “Non-Performing Loans” and “Summary of Loan Losses and Allowance for Loan Losses” beginning on page 13 of this report and Note 1(D) and Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report for further discussion related to our loan portfolio and our process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. 72 Table of Contents A failure to restore and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on Suffolk’s results of operation or financial condition. During April of 2011, management identified possible deficiencies and/or weaknesses in Suffolk’s internal controls related to the design and implementation of policies to promptly identify problem loans and to quantify the elements of risk in problem loans. After conducting an internal review, management determined that there were material weaknesses related to the allowance for loan and lease losses, financial reporting staffing resources, interdepartmental communications and governance and management accountability. See Part I, Item 9a—Controls and Procedures on page 77. Suffolk has incurred costs and implemented certain changes in its internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures to address these material weaknesses. It is too early to determine the impact of these remediation steps and Suffolk has not yet determined that it has restored effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. It is possible that additional deficiencies or weaknesses could be identified. A failure to restore and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. Recent financial reforms and related regulations may affect our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. The Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law on July 21, 2011, makes extensive changes to the laws regulating financial services firms. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires significant rulemaking and mandates multiple studies which could result in additional legislative or regulatory action. For a Description of the Dodd-Frank Act see “Supervision and Regulation—The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.” At this time, it is difficult to predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act or the resulting regulations will impact Suffolk’s business. However, compliance with these new laws and regulations will likely result in additional costs, and these additional costs may adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Failure to comply with the Bank’s written agreement with the OCC may result in further regulatory enforcement actions. On October 25, 2010, the Bank, following discussion with the OCC, entered into an Agreement with the OCC. The Agreement requires the Bank to take certain actions, including a review of management, the establishment of a three-year strategic plan and capital program, and the establishment of programs related to internal audit, maintaining an adequate allowance for loan losses, real property appraisal, credit risk management, credit concentrations, Bank Secrecy Act compliance and information technology. While subject to the Agreement, Suffolk expects that its and the Bank’s management and Board of Directors will be required to focus a substantial amount of time on complying with its terms. There also is no guarantee that the Bank will be able to fully comply with the Agreement. If the Bank fails to comply with the terms of the Agreement, it could be subject to further regulatory enforcement actions. While the Bank currently meets the three individual minimum capital ratios set by the OCC, further increases to our allowance for loan losses would negatively impact our capital levels, causing the Bank to no longer be in compliance with such ratios. The Bank is subject to individual minimum capital ratios established by the OCC requiring the Bank to maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least equal to 8.00 percent of adjusted total assets, to maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio at least equal to 10.50 percent of risk-weighted assets, and to maintain a total risk based capital ratio at least equal to 12.00 percent of risk-weighted assets. At December 31, 2011, the Bank met all three capital ratios as the Bank had a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 8.81 percent, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 12.93 percent and a total risk-based capital ratio of 14.21 percent. Further increases to Suffolk’s allowance for loan losses, however, would negatively impact the Bank’s capital levels and make it difficult to maintain the capital levels directed by the OCC. If the Bank fails to maintain the required capital levels, it could be subject to further regulatory enforcement actions. As a bank holding company that conducts substantially all of its operations through its banking subsidiary, our ability to pay dividends to stockholders depends upon the results of operations of the Bank and its ability to pay dividends to Suffolk. Dividends paid by the Bank are subject to limits imposed by law and regulation and are restricted by an agreement with the OCC. Substantially all of Suffolk’s activities are conducted through the Bank, and Suffolk receives substantially all of its funds through dividends from the Bank. Suffolk’s ability to pay dividends to stockholders depends on the Bank’s ability to pay dividends to Suffolk. Various laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay us. In addition, under the Agreement with the OCC, the Bank is required to establish a dividend policy that will permit the declaration of a dividend only when the Bank is in compliance with its capital program and with the prior written determination of no supervisory objection by the OCC. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to Suffolk, Suffolk will not be able to pay dividends to its stockholders. The revisions to Suffolk’s earnings previously announced on April 12, 2011, and the restatement of Suffolk’s financial statements for the period ended September 30, 2010 and the year ended December 31, 2010, have resulted in additional costs to Suffolk and may cause Suffolk to incur further costs or result in regulatory action or litigation against Suffolk which could adversely affect its results of operation or financial condition. 73 Table of Contents On April 12, 2011, Suffolk released preliminary earnings for the first quarter of 2011. Following that release, but prior to the regulatory deadline to file its Form 10-Q, management identified possible deficiencies and/or weaknesses in Suffolk’s internal controls with respect to credit administration and credit risk management, primarily with respect to the timing of the recognition of credit risk, as well as with regard to risk rating which affected the computation of the allowance for loan losses. On May 11, 2011, Suffolk announced that it would be delayed in filing its Form 10-Q. Suffolk retained independent consultants specializing in the evaluation and computation of the allowance for loan losses that conducted an independent review of Suffolk’s loan files with respect to the correct risk-rating of credits, and to the extent possible, to evaluate when that rating might correctly have been determined, and finally, where applicable, what the correct specific impairment allowance should be. The result of the reevaluation and re-computation of the allowance for loan losses was an increase in the specific impairment allowances, offset by a decrease in the qualitative reserve percentages, resulting in an overall increase in the total allowance over that announced on April 12, 2011. On August 12, 2011, Suffolk announced that the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors had concluded that Suffolk’s previously issued financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010, the quarter ended December 31, 2010 and the quarter ended September 30, 2010, as reported in Suffolk’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, respectively, should no longer be relied upon due to an understatement of its allowance for loan losses in such periods. The reevaluation and restatement process has resulted in additional costs to Suffolk and may cause Suffolk to incur further costs that could adversely affect its results of operation or financial condition. The revisions to our earnings previously announced on April 12, 2011 and the restatement of our financial statements may also result in regulatory action or litigation against Suffolk, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect Suffolk’s results of operations and financial condition. Suffolk’s ability to generate net income depends primarily upon our net interest income. Net interest income is income that remains after deducting, from total income generated by earning assets, the interest expense attributable to the acquisition of the funds required to support earning assets. Income from earning assets includes income from loans, investment securities and short-term investments. The amount of interest income is dependent on many factors including the volume of earning assets, the general level of interest rates, the dynamics of the change in interest rates and the levels of non-performing loans. The cost of funds varies with the amount of funds necessary to support earning assets, the rates paid to attract and hold deposits, rates paid on borrowed funds and the levels of non-interest-bearing demand deposits and equity capital. Different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, at different times, to changes in market interest rates. Management expects that Suffolk will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest-rate sensitivities of its assets and liabilities. That means either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest earning assets, or vice versa. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or re-price more quickly than interest-earning assets, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce our net interest income. Likewise, when interest-earning assets mature or re-price more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. Management is unable to predict changes in market interest rates which are affected by many factors beyond our control including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets. Net interest income is not only affected by the level and direction of interest rates, but also by the shape of the yield curve, relationships between interest sensitive instruments and key driver rates, as well as balance sheet growth, client loan and deposit preferences and the timing of changes in these variables. Management attempts to manage risk from changes in market interest rates, in part, by controlling the mix of interest rate-sensitive assets and interest rate-sensitive liabilities. Management reviews Suffolk’s interest rate risk position and modify its strategies based on projections to minimize the impact of future interest rate changes. However, interest rate risk management techniques are not exact. A rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additional information about the nature of these risks and how they are managed can be found in the following locations in this report: Credit Risk: under the captions “Non-Performing Loans” and “Summary of Loan Losses and Allowance for Loan Losses” beginning on page 16 of this report. Interest Rate Risk: under the captions “Asset/Liability Management & Liquidity” and “Interest Rate Sensitivity” on pages 24 through 27 of this report, respectively. Market Risk: under the caption “Market Risk” on page 27 of this report. Potential impairment in the carrying value of goodwill could negatively impact our earnings and capital. At December 31, 2011, we had goodwill totaling $814,000. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Given the current economic environment, we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to our normal annual assessment if we experience disruption in our business and/or sustained market capitalization declines. These types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future. These non-cash impairment charges could adversely affect our results of operations in future periods. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 74 Table of Contents STATISTICAL DISCLOSURE 