ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Net income at Suffolk is primarily reliant on its ability to generate net interest income, and to a lesser extent, fee income. Accordingly, factors affecting Suffolk Bancorp include particularly, but are not limited to: credit risk, the ability of borrowers to repay debt; interest rate risk, changes in interest rates that may cause the net interest margin between earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities to contract; market risk, changes in the market value of securities owing to changes in interest rates; increases or decreases in retail and commercial economic activity in Suffolk’s market area; variations in the ability and propensity of consumers and businesses to borrow, repay, or deposit money, or to use other banking and financial services. Further, it could take Suffolk longer than anticipated to implement its strategic plans to increase revenue and manage non-interest expense, or it may not be possible to implement those plans at all. Finally, new and unanticipated legislation, regulation, or accounting standards may require Suffolk to change its practices in ways that materially change the results of operations. Each of these factors may change in ways that management does not now foresee. They are subject, however, to a variety of uncertainties that could cause future results to vary materially from Suffolk’s historical performance, or from current expectations. Additional information about the nature of these risks and how they are managed can be found in the following locations in this report: Credit Risk: under the captions “Non-Performing Loans” and “Summary of Loan Losses and Allowance for Loan Losses” on page 13 of this report. Interest Rate Risk: under the captions “Asset/Liability Management & Liquidity” and “Interest Rate Sensitivity” and on pages 16 and 17 of this report, respectively. Market Risk: under the caption “Market Risk” on page 19 of this report. Management believes that it is imprudent to make or rely on assertions made before the fact concerning the probability that any specific risk will be realized, and that any such assertions would be speculative. Instead, credit, asset/liability management, investment, compliance, and other operating policies are written to account for a range of possible outcomes, and prevent or ameliorate those outcomes falling at the margins of possible occurrence. STATISTICAL DISCLOSURE 