ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our results may be adversely affected if we continue to suffer higher than expected losses on our loans or are required to further increase our allowance for loan losses. We assume credit risk from the possibility that we will suffer losses because borrowers, guarantors, and related parties fail to perform under the terms of their loans. We try to minimize and monitor this risk by adopting and implementing what we believe are effective underwriting and credit policies and procedures, including how we establish and review the allowance for loan losses. The allowance for loan losses is determined by continuous analysis of the loan portfolio and the analytical process is regularly reviewed and adjustments may be made based on the assessments of internal and external influences on credit quality. Those policies and procedures may still not prevent unexpected losses that could adversely affect our results. Weak economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of collateral securing those loans. In addition, deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, changes in regulation and regulatory interpretation and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. See the sections captioned “Loan Portfolio,” “Non-Performing Loans” and “Summary of Loan Losses and Allowance for Loan Losses” beginning on page 13 of this report and Note 1(D) and Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report for further discussion related to our loan portfolio and our process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. As required by the Agreement with the OCC, Suffolk is in the process of reviewing its allowance for loan losses which may result in further increases to the allowance. Recent financial reforms and related regulations may affect our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. The Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law on July 21, 2010, makes extensive changes to the laws regulating financial services firms. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires significant rulemaking and mandates multiple studies which could result in 63 Table of Contents additional legislative or regulatory action. For a Description of the Dodd-Frank Act see “Supervision and Regulation—The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.” At this time, it is difficult to predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act or the resulting regulations will impact Suffolk’s business. However, compliance with these new laws and regulations will likely result in additional costs, and these additional costs may adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Failure to comply with the Bank’s written agreement with the OCC may result in further regulatory enforcement actions. On October 25, 2010, the Bank, following discussion with the OCC, entered into an agreement with the OCC. The Agreement requires the Bank to take certain actions, including a review of management, the establishment of a three-year strategic plan and capital program, and the establishment of programs related to internal audit, maintaining an adequate allowance for loan losses, real property appraisal, credit risk management, credit concentrations, Bank Secrecy Act compliance and information technology. While subject to the Agreement, Suffolk expects that its and the Bank’s management and Board of Directors will be required to focus a substantial amount of time on complying with its terms. There also is no guarantee that the Bank will be able to fully comply with the Agreement. If the Bank fails to comply with the terms of the Agreement, it could be subject to further regulatory enforcement actions. While the Bank currently meets the three individual minimum capital ratios set by the OCC, further increases to our allowance for loan losses would negatively impact our capital levels, causing the Bank to no longer be in compliance with such ratios. The Bank is subject to individual minimum capital ratios established by the OCC requiring the Bank to maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least equal to 8.00 percent of adjusted total assets, to maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio at least equal to 10.50 percent of risk-weighted assets, and to maintain a total risk based capital ratio at least equal to 12.00 percent of risk-weighted assets. At December 31, 2010, the Bank met all three capital ratios as the Bank had a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 8.64 percent, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 11.78 percent and a total risk-based capital ratio of 13.03 percent. Further increases to Suffolk’s allowance for loan losses, however, would negatively impact the Bank’s capital levels and make it difficult to maintain the capital levels directed by the OCC. If the Bank fails to maintain the required capital levels, it could be subject to further regulatory enforcement actions. As a bank holding company that conducts substantially all of its operations through its banking subsidiary, our ability to pay dividends to stockholders depends upon the results of operations of the Bank and its ability to pay dividends to Suffolk. Dividends paid by the Bank are subject to limits imposed by law and regulation and are restricted by an agreement with the OCC. Substantially all of our activities are conducted through the Bank, and Suffolk receives substantially all of its funds through dividends from the Bank. Suffolk’s ability to pay dividends to stockholders depends on the Bank’s ability to pay dividends to Suffolk. Various laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay us. In addition, under the Agreement, the Bank is required to establish a dividend policy that will permit the declaration of a dividend only when the Bank is in compliance with its capital program and with the prior written determination of no supervisory objection by the OCC. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to Suffolk, we will not be able to pay dividends to our stockholders. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect Suffolk’s results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to generate net income depends primarily upon our net interest income. Net interest income is income that remains after deducting, from total income generated by earning assets, the interest expense attributable to the acquisition of the funds required to support earning assets. Income from earning assets includes income from loans, investment securities and short-term investments. The amount of interest income is dependent on many factors including the volume of earning assets, the general level of interest rates, the dynamics of the change in interest rates and the levels of non-performing loans. The cost of funds varies with the amount of funds necessary to support earning assets, the rates paid to attract and hold deposits, rates paid on borrowed funds and the levels of non-interest-bearing demand deposits and equity capital. Different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, at different times, to changes in market interest rates. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities. That means either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest earning assets, or vice versa. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or re-price more quickly than interest-earning assets, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce our net interest income. Likewise, when interest-earning assets mature or re-price more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates which are affected by many factors beyond our control including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets. Net interest income is not only affected by the level and direction of interest rates, but also by the shape of the yield curve, relationships between interest sensitive instruments and key driver rates, as well as balance sheet growth, client loan and deposit preferences and the timing of changes in these variables. We attempt to manage risk from changes in market interest rates, in part, by controlling the mix of interest rate-sensitive assets and interest rate-sensitive liabilities. We review our interest rate risk position and modify our strategies based on projections to minimize the impact of future interest rate changes. However, interest rate risk management techniques are not exact. A rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 64 Table of Contents Additional information about the nature of these risks and how they are managed can be found in the following locations in this report: Credit Risk: under the captions “Non-Performing Loans” and “Summary of Loan Losses and Allowance for Loan Losses” beginning on page 14 of this report. Interest Rate Risk: under the captions “Asset/Liability Management & Liquidity” and “Interest Rate Sensitivity” on pages 22 through 24 of this report, respectively. Market Risk: under the caption “Market Risk” on page 25 of this report. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. STATISTICAL DISCLOSURE 