ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risk factors that follow relate in each case to SCANA Corporation and its subsidiaries (SCANA), and where indicated the risk factors also relate to South Carolina Electric & Gas Company and its consolidated affiliates (SCE&G) or Public Service Company of North Carolina, Incorporated and its subsidiaries (PSNC Energy) or both. Commodity price changes may affect the operating costs and competitive positions of SCANA's, SCE&G's and PSNC Energy's energy businesses, thereby adversely impacting results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our energy businesses are sensitive to changes in coal, gas, oil and other commodity prices and availability. Any changes could affect the prices these businesses charge, their operating costs and the competitive position of their products and services. SCE&G is able to recover the cost of fuel used in electric generation through retail customers' bills, but increases in fuel costs affect electric prices and, therefore, the competitive position of electricity against other energy sources. In the case of regulated natural gas operations at SCE&G and PSNC Energy, costs for purchased gas and pipeline capacity are recovered through retail customers' bills, but increases in gas costs affect total retail prices and, therefore, the competitive position of gas relative to electricity, other forms of energy and other gas suppliers. Increases in gas costs may also result in lower usage by customers unable to switch to alternate fuels. 12 table of contents SCANA, SCE&G and PSNC Energy are subject to complex government rate regulation, which could adversely affect revenues, results of operations and cash flows. SCANA, SCE&G and PSNC Energy are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect operations. In particular, SCE&G's electric operations in South Carolina, and SCANA's gas operations in South Carolina (including SCE&G) and North Carolina (PSNC Energy), are regulated by state utilities commissions. Our gas marketing operations in Georgia are also subject to state regulatory oversight. There can be no assurance that Georgia’s gas delivery regulatory framework will remain unchanged as dynamic market conditions evolve. Although we believe we have constructive relationships with our regulators, our ability to obtain rate increases that will allow us to maintain reasonable rates of return is dependent upon regulatory discretion, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to implement rate increases when sought. SCANA, SCE&G and PSNC Energy are vulnerable to interest rate increases which would increase our borrowing costs, and may not have access to capital at favorable rates, if at all, both of which may adversely affect results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Changes in interest rates can affect the cost of borrowing on variable rate debt outstanding, on refinancing of debt maturities and on incremental borrowing to fund new investments. SCANA's business plan, and the business plans of SCE&G and PSNC Energy, reflect the expectation that we will have access to the capital markets on satisfactory terms to fund commitments. Moreover, the ability to maintain short-term liquidity by utilizing commercial paper programs is dependent upon maintaining investment grade debt ratings. The liquidity of SCANA, SCE&G and PSNC Energy would be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in the commercial paper market or if bank credit facilities became unavailable at acceptable rates. SCANA may not be able to reduce its leverage ratio as quickly as planned. This could result in downgrades of SCANA's debt ratings, thereby increasing its borrowing costs and adversely affecting its results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. SCANA's leverage ratio of debt to capital increased significantly following its acquisition in 2000 of PSNC Energy, and was approximately 56% at December 31, 2005. SCANA has publicly announced its desire to reduce this leverage ratio to between 50% to 52%, but SCANA's ability to do so depends on a number of factors. If SCANA is not able to reduce its leverage ratio, SCANA's debt ratings may be affected, it may be required to pay higher interest rates on its long- and short-term indebtedness, and its access to the capital markets may be limited. Operating results may be adversely affected by abnormal weather. SCANA, SCE&G and PSNC Energy have historically sold less power, delivered less gas and received lower prices for natural gas in deregulated markets, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder than normal. Mild weather in the future could diminish the revenues and results of operations and harm the financial condition of SCANA, SCE&G and PSNC Energy. In addition, severe weather can be destructive, causing outages and property damage, adversely affecting operating expenses and revenues. Potential competitive changes may adversely affect gas and electricity businesses due to the loss of customers, reductions in revenues, or write-down of stranded assets. The utility industry has been undergoing dramatic structural change for several years, resulting in increasing competitive pressures on electric and natural gas utility companies. Competition in wholesale power sales has been introduced on a national level. Some states have also mandated or encouraged competition at the retail level. Increased competition may create greater risks to the stability of the utility earnings of SCE&G and PSNC Energy generally and may in the future reduce earnings from retail electric and natural gas sales. In a deregulated environment, formerly regulated utility companies that are not responsive to a competitive energy marketplace may suffer erosion in market share, revenues and profits as competitors gain access to their customers. In addition, SCANA's and SCE&G's generation assets would be exposed to considerable financial risk in a deregulated electric market. If market prices for electric generation do not produce adequate revenue streams and the enabling legislation or regulatory actions do not provide for recovery of the resulting stranded costs, a write-down in the value of the related assets would be required. SCANA, SCE&G and PSNC Energy are subject to risks associated with changes in business climate which could limit access to capital, thereby increasing costs and adversely affecting results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Factors that generally could affect our ability to access capital include economic conditions and our capital structure. Much of our business is capital intensive, and achievement of our long-term growth targets is dependent, at least in part, upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. If our ability to access capital becomes significantly constrained, our interest costs will likely increase and our financial condition and future results of operations could be significantly harmed. 13 table of contents SCANA, SCE&G and PSNC Energy do not fully hedge against price changes in commodities. This could result in increased costs, thereby resulting in lower margins and adversely affecting results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. SCANA, SCE&G and PSNC Energy attempt to manage commodity price exposure by establishing risk limits and entering into contracts to offset some of our positions (i.e., to hedge our exposure to demand, market effects of weather and other changes in commodity prices). We do not hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price volatility. To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility or our hedges are not effective, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be diminished. A downgrade in the credit rating of SCANA, SCE&G or PSNC Energy could negatively affect its ability to access capital and to operate its businesses, thereby adversely affecting results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Standard & Poor's Ratings Services (S&P), Moody's Investors Service (Moody's) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch) rate SCANA's long-term senior unsecured debt at BBB+, A3 and A-, respectively. The S&P and Fitch ratings carry a stable outlook while the Moody's rating outlook is negative. S&P, Moody's and Fitch rate SCE&G's long-term senior secured debt at A-, A1 and A+, respectively, with a stable outlook at S&P and Fitch and a negative outlook at Moody's. S&P and Moody's rate PSNC's long-term senior unsecured debt at A- and A2, respectively, with a stable outlook. Fitch does not rate PSNC Energy. If S&P, Moody's or Fitch were to downgrade any of these long-term ratings, particularly to below investment grade, borrowing costs would increase, which would diminish financial results, and the potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. S&P and Moody's rate the short-term debt of SCE&G and PSNC Energy at A-2 and P-1, respectively, and Fitch rates the short-term debt of SCE&G at F-1. If these short-term ratings were to decline, it could significantly limit access to the commercial paper market and other sources of liquidity. Changes in the environmental laws and regulations to which SCANA, SCE&G and PSNC Energy are subject could increase costs or curtail activities, thereby adversely impacting results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. SCANA's, SCE&G's and PSNC Energy's compliance with extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations requires us to commit significant capital toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, emission fees and permits at our facilities. These expenditures have been significant in the past and are expected to increase in the future. Changes in compliance requirements or a more burdensome interpretation by governmental authorities of existing requirements may impose additional costs on us or require us to curtail some of our activities. Costs of compliance with environmental regulations could harm our industry, our business and our results of operations and financial position, especially if emission or discharge limits are reduced, more extensive permitting requirements are imposed or additional regulatory requirements are imposed. Changing regulatory and energy marketing structures could affect the ability of SCANA and SCE&G to compete in our electric markets, thereby adversely impacting results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 (the “Energy Policy Act”) became law in August 2005. The Energy Policy Act provides, among other things, for enforceable mandatory reliability standards for transmission systems. In February 2006 FERC issued final rules to implement the electric reliability provisions of the Energy Policy Act. The Company is reviewing these rules and will monitor their implementation to determine the impact they will have on SCE&G's access to or cost of power for its native load customers and for its marketing of power outside its service territory. Management is unable to predict the impact that the final rules, the timing of their implementation, or any future regulatory initiatives could have on results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, though such impact could be significant. Problems with operations could cause us to incur substantial costs, thereby adversely impacting results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. As the operator of power generation facilities, SCE&G could incur problems such as the breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines, other equipment or processes which would result in performance below assumed levels of output or efficiency. The failure of a power generation facility may result in SCE&G purchasing replacement power at market rates. These purchases are subject to state regulatory prudency reviews for recovery through rates. Covenants in certain financial instruments may limit SCANA's ability to pay dividends, thereby adversely impacting the valuation of our common stock and our access to capital. Our assets consist primarily of investments in subsidiaries. Dividends on our common stock depend on the earnings, financial condition and capital requirements of our subsidiaries, principally SCE&G, PSNC Energy and SEMI. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may also be limited by existing or future covenants limiting the right of our subsidiaries to pay dividends on their common stock. Any significant reduction in our payment of dividends in the future may result in a decline in the value of our common stock. Such a decline in value could limit our ability to raise debt and equity capital. 14 table of contents A significant portion of SCE&G's generating capacity is derived from nuclear power, the use of which exposes us to regulatory, environmental and business risks. These risks could increase our costs or otherwise constrain our business, thereby adversely impacting our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The V.C. Summer nuclear plant, operated by SCE&G, provided approximately 5.0 million MWh, or 19% of our generation capacity, in 2005. As such, SCE&G is subject to various risks of nuclear generation, which include the following: · The potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from a release of radioactive materials in connection with the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; · Limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations or those of others in the United States; · Uncertainties with respect to contingencies if insurance coverage is inadequate; and · Uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their operating lives. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could necessitate capital expenditures at nuclear plants such as ours. In addition, although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident, if a major incident should occur at a domestic nuclear facility, it could harm our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. Finally, in today's environment, there is a heightened risk of terrorist attack on the nation's nuclear facilities, which has resulted in increased security costs at our nuclear plant. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 15 table of contents ITEM 