Item 1A. Risk Factors A decline in securities markets could lead to a decline in revenues. Changes in economic or market conditions may adversely affect the profitability, performance of and demand for the Company’s investment products and services. The ability of the Company to compete and grow is dependent on the relative attractiveness of the types of investment products the Company offers and its investment performance and strategies under prevailing market conditions. Poor investment performance could lead to a decline in revenues. Success in the investment management industry is largely dependent on investment performance relative to market conditions and the performance of competing products. Good relative performance generally attracts additional assets under management, resulting in additional revenues. Conversely, poor performance generally results in decreased sales and increased redemptions with a corresponding decrease in revenues. Therefore, poor investment performance relative to the portfolio benchmarks and to competitors could impair the Company’s revenues and growth. Investment advisory fees are a significant portion of revenue and may be negatively affected by decreases in assets under management. Changes which may negatively impact assets under management, and thus, the Company’s revenue, profitability and ability to grow include market depreciation, redemptions from shareholder accounts and terminations of client accounts. Market-specific risks may negatively impact the Company’s earnings. The Company manages certain funds in the emerging market and natural resource sectors, which are highly cyclical. The investments in the funds are subject to significant loss due to political, economic, and diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, and changes in governmental policies. Foreign trading markets, particularly in some emerging market countries, are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more volatile than the U.S. and other established markets. Failure to comply with government regulations could result in fines, which could cause the Company’s earnings and stock price to decline. The Company is subject to a variety of federal securities laws and agencies, including the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, the SEC, the NASD/FINRA, NASDAQ, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001. Moreover, financial reporting requirements, and the processes, controls and procedures that have been put in place to address them, are comprehensive and complex. While management has focused attention and resources on compliance policies and procedures, non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, sanctions or censures which could affect the Company’s reputation, and thus its revenues and earnings. Increased regulatory and legislative actions and reforms could increase costs and negatively impact the Company’s profitability and future financial results. During the past six years, the federal securities laws have been substantially augmented and made significantly more complex by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and USA PATRIOT Act of 2001. With new laws and changes in interpretations and enforcement of existing requirements, the associated time the Company must dedicate to, and related costs the Company must incur in, meeting the regulatory complexities of the business have increased. In order to comply with these new requirements, the Company has had to expend additional time and resources, including substantial efforts to conduct evaluations required to ensure compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Moreover, current and pending regulatory and legislative actions and reforms affecting the mutual fund industry may negatively impact earnings by increasing the Company’s costs of dealing in the financial markets. 6 Table of Contents The loss of key personnel could negatively affect the Company’s financial performance. The success of the Company depends on key personnel, including the portfolio managers, analysts and executive officers. Competition for qualified, motivated and skilled personnel in the asset management industry remains significant. As the business grows, the Company will likely need to increase the number of employees. Moreover, in order to retain certain key personnel, the Company may be required to increase compensation to such individuals, resulting in additional expense. The loss of key personnel or the Company’s failure to attract replacement personnel could negatively affect its financial performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 