Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business Risks related to the regulation of the Company’s business could impact the rates it is able to charge, its costs and its profitability. The Company is subject to comprehensive regulation by federal and state regulatory authorities, which significantly influences the Company’s operating environment and its ability to recover costs from its customers. In particular, the Company is regulated by the FERC and state regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over public utilities, including the NHPUC, MDPU and MPUC. These authorities regulate many aspects of the Company’s operations, including, but not limited to, construction and maintenance of facilities, operations, safety, issuance of securities, accounting matters, transactions between affiliates, the rates that the Company can charge customers and the rate of return that it is allowed to realize. The Company’s ability to obtain rate adjustments to maintain its current rate of return depends upon regulatory action under applicable statutes, rules and regulations, and the Company cannot assure you that it will be able to obtain rate adjustments or continue receiving its current authorized rates of return. These regulatory authorities are also empowered to impose financial penalties and other sanctions on the Company if it is found to have violated statutes and regulations governing its utility operations. The Company is unable to predict the impact on its operating results from the regulatory activities of any of these agencies. Although the Company has attempted to actively manage the rate making process and has had recent success in obtaining rate adjustments, it can offer no assurances as to future success in the rate making process. Despite the Company’s requests, these regulatory commissions have authority under applicable statutes, rules and regulations to leave the Company’s rates unchanged, grant increases or order decreases in such rates. The regulators also have authority with respect to the recovery of the Company’s electricity and natural gas supply costs incurred by Unitil Energy, Fitchburg, and Northern Utilities. In the event that the Company is unable to recover these costs or recovery of these costs were to be significantly delayed, the Company’s operating results could be materially adversely affected. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could also have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. As a result of electric industry restructuring, the Company has a significant amount of certain stranded electric generation and generation related supply costs. The stranded costs resulting from the implementation of electric industry restructuring mandated by the states of New Hampshire and Massachusetts are recovered by the Company on a pass-through basis through 11 Table of Contents periodically reconciled rates. Any unrecovered balance of purchased power or stranded costs is deferred for future recovery as a regulatory asset. Such regulatory assets are subject to periodic regulatory review and approval for recovery in future periods. The Company’s power supply portfolio related stranded costs due to the electric industry restructuring in New Hampshire and Massachusetts for which regulatory approval has been obtained for recovery were approximately $33.8 million for Fitchburg and $18.9 million for Unitil Energy as of December 31, 2008, including $8.3 million and $9.8 million for Fitchburg and Unitil Energy, respectively, in Accrued Revenue on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet. Additionally, the Company’s other restructuring-related regulatory assets for which regulatory approval has been obtained for recovery were approximately $29.1 million in the aggregate as of December 31, 2008, including $4.0 million in Accrued Revenue on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet. Substantially all of Fitchburg’s stranded costs relate to owned generation assets and purchase power agreements divested by Fitchburg under a long-term contract buy-out agreement. Unitil Energy’s stranded costs are attributable to the long-term power purchase agreements divested by Unitil Power under long-term contract buyout agreements. Because Fitchburg and Unitil Power remain ultimately responsible for purchase power payments underlying these long-term buyout agreements, Fitchburg and Unitil Power could incur additional stranded costs were they required to resell such divested entitlements prior to the end of their term for amounts less than the amounts agreed to under the existing long-term buyout agreements. The Company expects that any such additional stranded costs would be recovered from its customers, although such recovery would require approval from the MDPU or NHPUC, the receipt of which cannot be assured. The Company’s electric and natural gas sales and revenues are highly correlated with the economy, and national, regional and local economic conditions may negatively impact the Company’s customers and correspondingly its operating results and financial condition. The Company’s business is influenced by the economic activity of its service territory. The level of economic growth in the Company’s electric and natural gas distribution service territory directly affects its potential for future growth in its business. As a result, adverse changes in the economy, including the significant adverse changes in the economy in 2008, may have negative effects on the Company’s revenues, operating results and financial condition. The Company may not be able to obtain debt financing, obtain debt financing on acceptable terms, or obtain debt financing under its current credit facilities because of the deterioration of the credit and capital markets, which could have an adverse affect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. The Company requires capital to fund utility plant additions, working capital and other utility expenditures. While the capital necessary to meet these requirements is derived primarily from internally-generated funds, the Company initially supplements internally generated funds through short-term debt financings, as needed, and periodically replaces portions of its short-term debt with long-term debt. General economic conditions, including recent distress in the financial markets, have had an adverse impact on the availability of credit resources generally, which could negatively affect the Company’s ability to obtain short- and long-term debt financings and the terms of such financings. In addition, the Company may be unable to obtain debt financing under its current credit facilities because its lending counterparties may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations. In each case, this could hinder or prevent the Company from meeting its future capital needs, which could correspondingly have an adverse affect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. In addition, the material terms of the Company’s existing indebtedness will also restrict its ability to incur any material amount of additional indebtedness, which could negatively impact its operating results and financial condition. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity, Commitments and Capital Requirements and Note 5 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. 12 Table of Contents Declines in the valuation of capital markets could require the Company to make substantial cash contributions to cover its pension obligations, which could negatively impact its financial condition. On August 17, 2006, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the PPA) was signed into law. Included in the PPA are new minimum funding rules which came into effect for plan years beginning in 2008. The funding target will be 100% of a plan’s liability with any shortfall amortized over seven years, with lower (92% – 100%) funding targets available to well-funded plans during the transition period provided pursuant to the PPA. Due to the significant declines in the valuation of capital markets during 2008, the Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008 (Recovery Act) was signed into law on December 23, 2008. Included in the Recovery Act are temporary modifications to the minimum funding rules set forth in the PPA such that all plans, except those that were subject to deficit reduction contribution requirements in 2007, are allowed to amortize any shortfall from the lower funding targets, rather than the 100% target, for the 2008 – 2010 plan years. The Company made cash contributions of $2.8 million, $2.8 million and $2.5 million to its pension plan in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which exceeded minimum funding requirements. Recent and future declines in the valuation of capital markets could require the Company to make cash contributions to its pension plans substantially in excess of its cash contributions in prior years, which could adversely affect its financial condition. In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans” (SFAS No. 158), which requires companies to record on their balance sheets the funded status of their retirement benefit obligations (RBO). The Company has recognized a liability for the projected RBO of its plans and a corresponding regulatory asset, to recognize the future collection of these obligations in electric and gas rates. In the event that the Company is unable to recover these costs or recovery of these costs were to be significantly delayed, the Company’s operating results could be materially adversely affected. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity, Commitments and Capital Requirements and Note 10 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Increases in interest rates could have a negative impact on the Company’s financial condition and the Company may need to use a significant portion of its cash flow to repay its outstanding indebtedness. The Company and its utility subsidiaries have ongoing capital expenditure and cash funding requirements that they frequently fund by issuing short-term debt and long-term debt. Short-term debt borrowings are typically at variable rates of interest. Therefore, changes in short-term interest rates will increase or decrease the Company’s interest expense associated with short-term borrowings. Increases in interest rates generally will increase the Company’s borrowing costs with respect to short-term debt and could adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had approximately $39.1 million outstanding under a bank financing facility, which provides for a loan which matures on November 1, 2009, and $35.0 million outstanding under a revolving credit facility. Long-term debt borrowings are typically at fixed rates of interest. Therefore, changes in interest rates do not affect interest expense associated with presently outstanding fixed rate long-term debt securities. However, changes in interest rates may affect the interest rate and corresponding interest expense on any new long-term debt securities that are issued. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity, Commitments and Capital Requirements and Note 5 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company may need to use a significant portion of its cash flow to repay its short-term debt and long-term debt, which would limit the amount of cash it has available for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes and could negatively affect its liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents The Company’s and its subsidiaries’ indebtedness contains covenants that could restrict the Company’s business operations. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity, Commitments and Capital Requirements and Note 5 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Weather conditions may cause the Company’s sales to vary from year to year. Sales by the Company’s distribution utilities vary from year to year, depending on weather conditions. The Company estimates that approximately 50% of its annual natural gas sales are temperature sensitive. As a result, mild winter temperatures can cause a decrease in the amount of natural gas sold by the Company in any year, particularly during the winter heating season. The Company’s electric sales are generally less sensitive to weather than its natural gas sales, but may also be affected by weather conditions in both the winter and summer seasons. The highest usage of electricity typically occurs in both the summer months due to air conditioning demand and the winter months due to heating-related requirements and shorter daylight hours. The Company’s results of operations reflect this seasonal nature. In particular, the Company expects that consolidated results of operations in future reporting periods will reflect to a greater degree the seasonal nature of natural gas sales by Northern Utilities, which was acquired by the Company on December 1, 2008. Accordingly, the Company expects that consolidated results of operations will be positively affected during the first and fourth quarters, and negatively affected during the second and third quarters of future reporting years. Unitil is a holding company and has no operating income of its own. The Company’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock is dependent on dividends received from its subsidiaries and on factors directly affecting Unitil, the parent corporation. The Company cannot assure you that its current annual dividend will be paid in the future. Unitil is a public utility holding company and it does not have any operating income of its own. Consequently, the Company’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock is dependent on dividends and other payments received from its subsidiaries, principally Unitil Energy, Fitchburg, Northern Utilities and Granite State. The ability of the Company’s subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to Unitil will depend on, among other things: • the actual and projected earnings and cash flow, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries; • the prior rights of holders of existing and future preferred stock, mortgage bonds, long-term notes and other debt issued by the Company’s subsidiaries; • the restrictions on the payment of dividends contained in the existing loan agreements of Unitil Energy, Fitchburg, Northern Utilities and Granite State and that may be contained in future debt agreements of the Company’s subsidiaries, if any; and • limitations that may be imposed by New Hampshire, Massachusetts and Maine state regulatory agencies. In addition, the Company may incur indebtedness in the future. Before the Company can pay dividends on its common stock, it has to satisfy its debt obligations, including the bank financing facility that the Company used to partially finance the Acquisitions and the long-term notes issued by Northern Utilities and Granite State, and comply with any statutory or contractual limitations. The Company’s current annual dividend is $1.38 per share of common stock, payable quarterly. However, the Company’s Board of Directors reviews Unitil’s dividend policy periodically in light of the factors referred to above, and the Company cannot assure the amount of dividends, if any, that may be paid in the future. 14 Table of Contents Transporting and storing natural gas and supplemental gas supplies, as well as electricity, involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. Inherent in the Company’s electric and natural gas distribution activities are a variety of hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, explosions, electrocutions and mechanical problems that could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, and impairment of the Company’s operations and substantial losses to Unitil. In accordance with customary industry practice, the Company maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. The location of pipelines, storage facilities and electric distribution equipment near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. The occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by insurance could adversely affect the Company’s financial position and results of operations. The Company’s business is subject to environmental regulation in all jurisdictions in which it operates and its costs of compliance are significant. Any changes in existing environmental regulation and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could negatively affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s utility operations are generally subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources, and the health and safety of the Company’s employees. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties; imposition of remedial requirements; and even issuance of injunctions to ensure future compliance. Liability under certain environmental laws is strict, joint and several in nature. Although the Company believes it is in general compliance with all applicable environmental and safety laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that significant costs and liabilities will not be incurred in the future. Moreover, it is possible that other developments, such as increasingly stringent federal, state or local environmental laws and regulations, could result in increased environmental compliance costs. Catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The electric and natural gas utility industries are from time to time affected by catastrophic events, such as unusually severe weather and significant and widespread failures of plant and equipment. Other catastrophic occurrences, such as terrorist attacks on utility facilities, may occur in the future. Such events could have a material adverse effect on the Company since they could inhibit its ability to continue providing electric and/or natural gas distribution services to its customers for an extended period, which is the principal source of the Company’s operating income. The Company’s business could be adversely affected if it is unable to retain its existing customers or attract new customers. The success of the Company’s business depends, in part, on its ability to maintain and increase its customer base. The Company’s failure to maintain or attract customers could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and operating results. The Company cannot guarantee customers’ future performance under multi-year energy brokering contracts. The Company’s non-regulated energy brokering business provides energy brokering and consulting services to large commercial and industrial customers in the northeastern United States. Revenues from this business are primarily derived from brokering fees and charges billed to suppliers as customers take delivery of energy from these suppliers under term contracts. The Company cannot guarantee customers’ future performance under multi-year energy brokering contracts. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 Table of Contents 