ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The Securities and Exchange Commission encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company’s future prospects and make informed investment decisions. This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, which include, without limitation, those statements regarding anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as “anticipates”, “estimates”, “expects”, “projects”, “intends”, “plans”, “believes” and words and terms of similar substance in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. Many factors also could cause actual results to be materially different from any future results that may be expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements as a result of future events or developments. Outlined below are some of the risks that we face that could affect the business and financial position for fiscal 2008 and beyond. However, they are not the only risks that we face. There may be additional risks that are not presently known or that management currently believes are immaterial which could also impair business or financial position. We face intense competition in the acoustical and coated application industries and failure to successfully compete may negatively affect our business and financial performance. We operate in a highly competitive business environment and face intense competition from a growing number of competitors, including an increasing number of foreign-based competitors, with greater resources than us. The elements of competition include price, quality and customer service. In the past, our competitors, especially global competitors with low-cost sources of supply outside the United States, have aggressively priced their products and/or introduced new products in order to increase market share. If we are unable to compete in this highly competitive environment, our business and financial performance could be negatively affected. We rely on sales to a small number of customers; the loss of any one of these customers could have an adverse impact on revenues. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers (most of which are North American automobile manufacturers) and the loss of any one of these customers could adversely impact our operations. In fiscal 2007, our three largest customers, Ford, General Motors and DaimlerChrysler, represented 19%, 13% and 13% of consolidated net sales, respectively. During the past several years, these customers have lost market share in the United States, primarily to Asian competitors. Although we are actively targeting these Asian competitors as potential customers, any further market share loss by these North American-based automakers could have a material adverse effect on our business. In fiscal 2007, these automakers announced significant production cuts which reduced the demand for our acoustical and coated products and hurt our profitability. Our three largest customers all have major union contracts with the same automobile workers’ unions. Any extended work stoppage could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. Our three largest customers all have major union contracts with the same automobile workers unions and some of these union contracts expire during fiscal 2008. History has shown these contract negotiations can be lengthy and issues may be very difficult to resolve. Any extended work stoppage which may occur during these negotiations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. The volatility in the price and availability of raw material inputs used by us, particularly steel, zinc, nickel and natural gas, could adversely affect our ability to conduct business both timely and profitably. In recent years, there has been a shortage of readily available metals that meet the requirements of our customers. Such shortage adversely affects our ability to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. In conjunction with that shortage and rising material costs, the cost of metals used in our products has risen dramatically over the past few years, which has caused us to increase prices in a competitive 10 Table of Contents market and/or absorb higher costs. Our future profitability may be adversely affected to the extent we are unable to pass higher raw material costs to our customers. In fiscal 2007, we experienced a dramatic increase in the cost of zinc which is a critical element in the production of certain Quiet Steel® parts. We entered into a long-term purchase contract to curtail the increase in cost and we have passed some of this cost increase onto our customers, but we have experienced a significant decrease in our profitability. In fiscal 2006, there was a dramatic volatility in the price of natural gas, particularly subsequent to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in the Gulf region. Increases in raw material prices (such as for zinc, nickel and natural gas) and prices of other energy sources adversely affect our profitability. The acceptance of our brake damping materials, engine components and body panel laminate parts by customers in North America, Europe and Asia is critical to our financial performance. We have made a significant investment in the design and development of our material-based solutions to NVH problems in the automotive industry. If these solutions are not introduced and marketed successfully into North America, Europe and Asia, our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully introduce and market new products, we may not achieve our targeted financial results. Management believes that our past success has been partially due to our ability to design and market new solutions to customer needs. Management also believes that the construction of our Application Research Center in Michigan and the expansion of our Application Development Center in Europe will provide us with state-of-the-art facilities in which to accelerate the development of new products and technologies. However, if these new products and technologies are not accepted by customers, we may not be able to attract new business or maintain existing customers, thus adversely affecting our business. Our financial performance could be adversely affected by an inability to effectively execute and manage our business objectives. The highly competitive nature of our industry requires that we effectively execute and manage our business including our operating initiatives, which aim to reduce costs and drive productivity and quality improvements. Our inability to effectively control costs and drive productivity improvements could affect our profits. In addition, our failure to provide high-quality, innovative products could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our sales, which could negatively affect our revenues and overall financial performance. Additionally, our success is dependent on successful new product and process development. Our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and our ability to successfully and timely identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. An increase in the environmental risks, costs, recoveries and penalties associated with our past and present manufacturing operations could adversely affect our financial performance. We are a party to various legal proceedings in connection with the remediation of certain environmental matters. We record reserves for these environmental matters using our historical experience and relevant information available from various third parties. There are a number of assumptions made in establishing these reserves, including, without limitation, the estimated extent of environmental damage to any particular site, the available methods of remedy, estimated contribution of various other potentially responsible parties and the discretionary authority of federal and state regulatory authorities in bringing enforcement actions. New environmental issues or changes in the assumptions surrounding existing environmental issues could have an adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business and future development may be adversely affected if we are unable to retain key personnel. Our success is highly dependent upon the services of key personnel in all areas of our business including, but not limited to, senior management, sales (including persons trained in our NVH sales methodology) and operations, administration and finance. The loss of the services of one or more of these people could have an adverse effect upon the business and plans for future development. In addition, we have downsized administrative and management positions in past years as a result of cost-cutting initiatives. Lack of management resources could impact our ability to operate and compete in our industry. 11 Table of Contents Our business could be negatively impacted by deterioration in labor relations. As of February 28, 2007, we had 583 full-time employees, of which approximately 47% were represented by labor unions with separate collective bargaining agreements. As these agreements expire, we cannot be assured that we will be able to renew the collective bargaining agreements on the same or similar terms, or at all, which could affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Moreover, if new labor agreements are negotiated, there can be no guarantee that the agreements will be at satisfactory terms with regard to the efficiency and productivity of the work force. We had one union contract that expired in March 2006 and we implemented new terms and conditions of employment which included a voluntary severance package. We cannot be assured that the employees who remained will continue to work under the terms and conditions we implemented. Further, we cannot be assured that we will not be subject to work stoppages that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may experience adverse effects on the results of operations if proposed gross revenue tax legislation in the State of Illinois is passed into law. The government of the State of Illinois is considering proposed tax legislation that would create a “gross revenue tax” on all products and services sold in Illinois. The proposed legislation, in its current form, would not allow companies to pass the additional cost of the tax onto their customers or to deduct the tax from corporate income tax calculations. This tax would adversely affect our future operations results if passed into law. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 