Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business Risks related to the regulation of our business could impact the rates we are able to charge, our costs and our profitability. We are subject to comprehensive regulation by federal and state regulatory authorities, which significantly influences our operating environment and our ability to recover costs from our customers. In particular, we are regulated by the FERC and state regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over public utilities, including the NHPUC and the MDTE. These authorities regulate many aspects of our operations, including, but not limited to, construction and maintenance of facilities, operations, safety, issuance of securities, accounting matters, transactions between affiliates, the rates that we can charge customers and the rate of return that we are allowed to realize. Our ability to obtain rate adjustments to maintain our current rate of return depends upon regulatory action under applicable statutes, rules and regulations, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain rate adjustments or continue receiving our current authorized rates of return. These regulatory authorities are also empowered to impose financial penalties and other sanctions on us if we are found to have violated statutes and regulations governing our utility operations. We are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from the regulatory activities of any of these agencies. Although we have attempted to actively manage the rate making process and have had recent success in obtaining rate increases, we can offer no assurances as to future success in the rate making process. Despite our requests, these regulatory commissions have authority under applicable statutes, rules and regulations to leave our rates unchanged, grant increases or order decreases in such rates. They have similar authority with respect to the recovery of our electricity and natural gas supply costs incurred by UES and FG&E in their role as a “provider of last resort” for customers who do not contract with third-party suppliers, or whose third-party supplier fails to deliver. In the event that we are unable to recover these costs or recovery of these costs were to be significantly delayed, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could also have an adverse effect on our operating results. 11 Table of Contents As a result of industry restructuring, we have a significant amount of certain stranded energy supply costs, which are subject to recovery in future periods. The stranded costs resulting from the implementation of industry restructuring mandated by the states of New Hampshire and Massachusetts are recovered by us on a pass-through basis through periodically adjusted rates. Any unrecovered balance of purchased power or stranded costs is deferred for future recovery as a regulatory asset. Such regulatory assets are subject to periodic regulatory review and approval for recovery in future periods. Our power supply portfolio related stranded costs due to the electric industry restructuring in New Hampshire and Massachusetts for which regulatory approval has been obtained for recovery were approximately $50.0 million for FG&E and $42.6 million for UES as of December 31, 2006 (See total of $92.6 million on the Power Supply Buyout Obligations line of Regulatory Assets table of Note 1). Substantially all of FG&E’s stranded costs relate to owned generation assets and power purchase agreements divested by FG&E under a long-term contract buy-out agreement. Approximately $18.4 million of UES’ stranded costs are attributable to the long-term power purchase agreements divested by Unitil Power under a long-term contract buyout agreement. Because FG&E and Unitil Power remain ultimately responsible for purchase power payments underlying these long-term buyout agreements, FG&E and Unitil Power could incur additional stranded costs were they required to resell such divested entitlements prior to the end of their term for amounts less than the amounts agreed to under the existing long-term buyout agreements. We expect that any such additional stranded costs would be recovered from our customers, although such recovery would require approval from the MDTE or NHPUC, the receipt of which cannot be assured. Our electric and natural gas sales and revenues are highly correlated with the economy, and national, regional and local economic conditions may negatively impact our customers and correspondingly our operating results and financial condition. Our business is influenced by the economic activity of our franchise areas. The level of economic growth in our electric and natural gas distribution franchise areas directly affects our potential for future growth in our business. As a result, adverse changes in the economy may have negative effects on our revenues, operating results and financial condition. Declines in the valuation of capital markets could require us to make substantial cash contributions to cover our pension obligations, which could negatively impact our financial condition. In addition, the recovery of certain pension obligations is subject to regulatory risks. We made a voluntary cash contribution to our pension plan of $2.0 million in 2004. In 2005, we were required to make a minimum cash contribution of $0.7 million to our pension plan and made an additional voluntary cash contribution of $1.8 million for a total of $2.5 million. In 2006, we were required and made a minimum cash contribution of $2.5 million to our pension plan. If the valuation of capital markets were to significantly decline from current levels, we may be required to make cash contributions to our pension plans substantially in excess of the levels currently anticipated, which could adversely affect our financial condition. On August 17, 2006, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA) was signed into law. Included in the PPA are new minimum funding rules which will go into effect for plan years beginning in 2008. The funding target will be 100% of a plan’s liability with any shortfall amortized over seven years, with lower (92% – 100%) funding targets available to well-funded plans during the transition period. In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Statement No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans”, (SFAS No. 158), an amendment of SFAS No. 87, “Employers’ Accounting for Pensions”, SFAS No. 88, “Employers’ Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for 12 Table of Contents Termination Benefits,” SFAS No. 106, “Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits other than Pensions” and SFAS No. 132(R), “Employers’ Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits.” SFAS No. 158 requires companies to record on their balance sheets as an asset or liability the overfunded or underfunded status of their retirement benefit obligations (RBO) based on the projected benefit obligation. The Company has recognized a corresponding Regulatory Asset, to recognize the future collection of these obligations in electric and gas retail rates. In the event that we are unable to recover these costs or recovery of these costs were to be significantly delayed, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. See Note 8 also. Increases in interest rates could have a negative impact on our financial condition. Our utility subsidiaries have ongoing capital expenditure requirements which they frequently fund by issuing short and long-term debt. Changes in interest rates do not affect interest expense associated with presently outstanding fixed rate long-term debt securities. However, changes in interest rates may affect the interest rate and corresponding interest expense on any new long-term debt securities that are issued. In addition, short-term debt borrowings are typically at variable rates of interest. As a result, changes in short-term interest rates will increase or decrease our interest expense associated with short-term borrowings. Increases in interest rates generally will increase our borrowing costs and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Weather conditions may cause our sales to vary from year to year. Our utility operating sales vary from year to year, depending on weather conditions. We estimate that approximately 75% of our annual natural gas sales are temperature sensitive. As a result, mild winter temperatures can cause a decrease in the amount of gas we sell in any year, particularly during the winter heating season. Our electric sales are generally less sensitive to weather than our gas sales, but may also be affected by weather conditions in both the winter and summer seasons. We are a holding company and have no operating income of our own. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is dependent on dividends received from our subsidiaries and on factors directly affecting us, the parent corporation. We cannot assure you that our current annual dividend will be paid in the future. We are a public utility holding company and we do not have any operating income of our own. Consequently, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is dependent on dividends and other payments received from our subsidiaries, principally UES and FG&E. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to us will depend on, among other things: • the actual and projected earnings and cash flow, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries; • the prior rights of holders of existing and future preferred stock, mortgage bonds, long-term notes and other debt issued by our subsidiaries; • the restrictions on the payment of dividends contained in the existing loan agreements of UES and FG&E and that may be contained in future debt agreements of our subsidiaries, if any; • limitations imposed by New Hampshire and Massachusetts state regulatory agencies, which, among other things, may prohibit the payment of dividends by subsidiaries out of capital or unearned surplus without prior approval. In addition, we may incur indebtedness in the future. Before we can pay dividends on our common stock, we have to satisfy our debt obligations and comply with any statutory or contractual limitations. 13 Table of Contents Our current annual dividend is $1.38 per share of common stock, payable quarterly. However, our board of directors reviews our dividend policy periodically in light of the factors referred to above, and we cannot assure you of the amount of dividends, if any, that may be paid in the future. Transporting and storing natural gas and supplemental gas supplies, as well as electricity, involve numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. Inherent in our electric and gas distribution activities are a variety of hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, explosions, electrocutions and mechanical problems that could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, and impairment of our operations and substantial losses to us. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. The location of pipelines, storage facilities and electric distribution equipment near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. The occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by insurance could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Our business is subject to environmental regulation in all jurisdictions in which we operate and our costs of compliance are significant. Any changes in existing environmental regulation and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our utility operations are generally subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources and the health and safety of our employees. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties; imposition of remedial requirements; and even issuance of injunctions to ensure future compliance. Liability under certain environmental laws is strict, joint and several in nature. Although we believe we are in general compliance with all applicable environmental and safety laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that significant costs and liabilities will not be incurred in the future. Moreover, it is possible that other developments, such as increasingly stringent federal, state or local environmental laws and regulations, could result in increased environmental compliance costs. See “Environmental Matters” in the Part I, Item 1, and Note 5 of this report for further detail. Catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The electric and natural gas utility industries are from time to time affected by catastrophic events, such as unusually severe weather and significant and widespread failures of plant and equipment. Other catastrophic occurrences, such as terrorist attacks on utility facilities, may occur in the future. Such events could have a material adverse effect on us, since they could inhibit our ability to continue providing electric and/or gas distribution services to our customers for an extended period, which is the principal source of our operating income. Customers’ future performance under multi-year energy brokering contracts. The Company’s non-regulated energy brokering business provides energy brokering and consulting services to large commercial and industrial customers in the northeastern United States. Revenues from this business are primarily derived from brokering fees and charges billed to suppliers as customers take delivery of energy from these suppliers under term contracts. The Company cannot guarantee customers’ future performance under multi-year energy brokering contracts. 14 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 