Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business The Company is subject to comprehensive regulation, which could adversely impact the rates it is able to charge, its authorized rate of return and its ability to recover costs. In addition, certain regulatory authorities have the power to impose financial penalties and other sanctions on the Company, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company is subject to comprehensive regulation by federal regulatory authorities (including the FERC) and state regulatory authorities (including the NHPUC, MDPU and MPUC). These authorities regulate many aspects of the Company’s operations, including the rates that the Company can charge customers, the Company’s authorized rates of return, the Company’s ability to recover costs from its customers, construction and maintenance of the Company’s facilities, the Company’s safety protocols and procedures, the Company’s ability to issue securities, the Company’s accounting matters, and transactions between the Company and its affiliates. The Company is unable to predict the impact on its financial condition or results of operations from the regulatory activities of any of these regulatory authorities. Changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations or regulatory decisions particular to the Company could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s ability to obtain rate adjustments to maintain its current authorized rates of return depends upon action by regulatory authorities under applicable statutes, rules and regulations. These regulatory authorities are authorized to leave the Company’s rates unchanged, to grant increases in such rates or to order decreases in such rates. The Company may be unable to obtain favorable rate adjustments or to maintain its current authorized rates of return, which could adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. Regulatory authorities also have authority with respect to the Company’s ability to recover its electricity and natural gas supply costs, as incurred by Unitil Power, Unitil Energy, Fitchburg, and Northern Utilities. If the Company is unable to recover a significant amount of these costs, or if the Company’s recovery of these costs is significantly delayed, then the Company’s financial condition or results or operations could be adversely affected. In addition, certain regulatory authorities have the power to impose financial penalties and other sanctions on the Company if the Company is found to have violated statutes, rules or regulations governing its utility operations. Any such penalties or sanctions could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Severe weather events have struck, and may strike, the New England region, causing extensive damage to the Company’s utility operations and the loss of service to significant numbers of the Company’s customers. If the Company is unable to recover a significant amount of storm costs in its rates, or if the Company’s recovery of storm costs in its rates is significantly delayed, then the Company’s financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. The New England region in which the Company operates has been and will likely continue to be struck from time to time by severe weather events, including snow, wind and ice storms. These storms have in the past caused extensive damage to the Company’s utility operations and loss of service to the Company’s customers, and future severe weather events are likely to do so as well. If the Company cannot recover a significant amount of storm costs in its rates, or if the recovery of these costs is significantly delayed, then the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Please see the sections entitled Regulatory Matters in Item 7 (Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation) and Regulatory Matters in Note 8 (Commitments and Contingencies) to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the effects of severe weather events on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents As a result of electric industry restructuring, the Company has a significant amount of stranded electric generation and power supply related supply costs. If the Company is unable to recover a significant amount of stranded costs in its rates, or if the Company’s recovery of stranded costs in its rates is significantly delayed, then the Company’s financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. The stranded electric generation and power supply related supply costs resulting from the implementation of electric industry restructuring mandated by the states of New Hampshire and Massachusetts are recovered by the Company on a pass-through basis through periodically reconciled rates. Any unrecovered balance of stranded costs is deferred for future recovery as a regulatory asset. Such regulatory assets are subject to periodic regulatory review and approval for recovery in future periods. In connection with the implementation of retail choice, Unitil Power and Fitchburg divested their long-term power supply contracts through the sale of the entitlements to the electricity sold under those contracts. Unitil Energy and Fitchburg recover in their rates all the costs associated with the divestiture of their power supply portfolios and have secured regulatory approval from the NHPUC and MDPU, respectively, for the recovery of power supply-related stranded costs and other restructuring-related regulatory assets. The remaining balance of these assets, to be recovered principally over the next year, is $12.7 million as of December 31, 2013, including $10.2 million recorded in Current Assets as Accrued Revenue on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet. Unitil’s distribution companies have a continuing obligation to submit filings in both states that demonstrate their compliance with regulatory mandates and provide for timely recovery of costs in accordance with their approved restructuring plans. If the Company is unable to recover a significant amount of such stranded costs in its rates, or if the Company’s recovery of such stranded costs in its rates is significantly delayed, then the Company’s financial condition or results or operations could be adversely affected. Please see the sections entitled Regulatory Matters—Overview in Item 7 (Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) and Regulatory Matters—Overview in Note 8 (Commitments and Contingencies) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the effect of various regulatory matters on the Company and its subsidiaries. The Company’s electric and natural gas sales and revenues are highly correlated with the economy, and national, regional and local economic conditions may adversely affect the Company’s customers and correspondingly the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s business is influenced by the economic activity within its service territory. The level of economic activity in the Company’s electric and natural gas distribution service territory directly affects the Company’s business. As a result, adverse changes in the economy may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results or operations. The Company may not be able to obtain financing, or may not be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company requires capital to fund utility plant additions, working capital and other utility expenditures. While the Company derives the capital necessary to meet these requirements primarily from internally-generated funds, the Company supplements internally generated funds by incurring short-term debt under its current credit facility, as needed. If the lending counterparties under the Company’s current credit facility are unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations, then the Company may be unable to, or limited in its ability to, incur short-term debt under its credit facility. This could hinder or prevent the Company from meeting its current and future capital needs, which could correspondingly adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results or operations. Also, from time to time, the Company repays portions of its short-term debt with the proceeds it receives from long-term debt financings or equity financings. General economic conditions, conditions in the capital and credit markets and the Company’s operating and financial performance could negatively affect the Company’s ability to obtain such financings or the terms of such financings, which could correspondingly adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results or operations. 11 Table of Contents Declines in the valuation of capital markets could require the Company to make substantial cash contributions to cover its pension obligations. If the Company is unable to recover a significant amount of pension obligation costs in its rates, or if the Company’s recovery of pension obligation costs in its rates is significantly delayed, then the Company’s financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. The amount of cash contributions the Company is required to make in respect of its pension obligations is dependent upon the valuation of the capital markets. Adverse changes in the valuation of the capital markets could result in the Company being required to make substantial cash contributions in respect of its pension obligations. These cash contributions could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations if the Company is unable to recover a such costs in rates or if such recovery is significantly delayed. Please see the section entitled Critical Accounting Policies—Pension Benefit Obligations in Item 7 (Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) and Note 10 (Retirement Benefit Plans) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the Company’ pension obligations. Increases in interest rates could increase the Company’s interest expense and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company and its utility subsidiaries have ongoing capital expenditure and cash funding requirements, which they frequently fund by issuing short-term debt and long-term debt. The Company’s short-term debt revolving credit facility typically has variable interest rates. Therefore, an increase or decrease in interest rates will increase or decrease the Company’s interest expense associated with its revolving credit facility. An increase in the Company’s interest expense could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had approximately $60.2 million in short-term debt outstanding under its revolving credit facility. The Company’s long-term debt typically has fixed interest rates. Therefore, changes in interest rates will not affect the Company’s interest expense associated with its presently outstanding fixed rate long-term debt. However, an increase or decrease in interest rates may increase or decrease the Company’s interest expense associated with any new fixed rate long-term debt issued by the Company, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. See the sections entitled Liquidity, Commitments and Capital Requirements in Item 7 (Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) and Note 5 (Debt and Financing Arrangements) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of the effects of changes in interest rates on the Company. In addition, the Company may need to use a significant portion of its cash flow to repay its short-term debt and long-term debt, which would limit the amount of cash it has available for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes and could adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. The terms of the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ indebtedness restrict the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ business operations (including their ability to incur material amounts of additional indebtedness), which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The terms of the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ indebtedness impose various restrictions on the Company’s business operations, including the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness. These restrictions could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. See the sections entitled Liquidity, Commitments and Capital Requirements in Item 7 (Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) and Note 5 (Debt and Financing Arrangements) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of these restrictions. 12 Table of Contents A significant amount of the Company’s sales are temperature sensitive. Because of this, mild winter and summer temperatures could decrease the Company’s sales, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Also, the Company’s sales may vary from year to year depending on weather conditions, and the Company’s results of operations generally reflect seasonality. The Company estimates that approximately 60% of its annual natural gas sales are temperature sensitive. Therefore, mild winter temperatures could decrease the amount of natural gas sold by the Company, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s electric sales also are temperature sensitive, but less so than its natural gas sales. The highest usage of electricity typically occurs in the summer months (due to air conditioning demand) and the winter months (due to heating-related and lighting requirements). Therefore, mild summer temperatures and mild winter temperatures could decrease the amount of electricity sold by the Company, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Also, because of this temperature sensitivity, sales by the Company’s distribution utilities vary from year to year, depending on weather conditions. In addition, the Company’s results of operations generally reflect seasonality. In particular, the Company expects that results of operations will be positively affected during the first and fourth quarters, when sales of natural gas are typically higher (due to heating-related requirements), and negatively affected during the second and third quarters, when gas operating and maintenance expenses usually exceed sales margins in the period. Long-term global climate change could adversely affect customer demand or cause extreme weather events that could disrupt the Company’s electric and natural gas distribution services. Milder winter and summer temperatures that may be due to long-term global climate change could cause a decrease in the amount of natural gas and electricity sold by the Company. Conversely, colder winter temperatures and warmer summer temperatures that may be due to long-term global climate change could cause an increase in the amount of natural gas and electricity sold by the Company. In addition, extreme weather events (such as hurricanes and severe winter storms) that may be related to long-term global climate change could damage facilities or result in increased service interruptions and outages and increase the Company’s operations and maintenance costs. If the Company is unable to recover a significant amount of such costs in its rates, or if the Company’s recovery of such costs in its rates is significantly delayed, then the Company’s financial condition or results or operations may be adversely affected. The Company is unable to predict the impacts on its financial condition and results or operations due to changes in weather that may be related to long-term global climate change. Unitil is a public utility holding company and has no operating income of its own. The Company’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock is dependent on dividends and other payments received from its subsidiaries and on factors directly affecting Unitil, the parent corporation. The Company cannot assure that its current annual dividend will be paid in the future. The ability of the Company’s subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to Unitil depends on, among other things: • the actual and projected earnings and cash flow, capital requirements and general financial condition of the Company’s subsidiaries; • the prior rights of holders of existing and future preferred stock, mortgage bonds, long-term notes and other debt issued by the Company’s subsidiaries; • the restrictions on the payment of dividends contained in the existing loan agreements of the Company’s subsidiaries and that may be contained in future debt agreements of the Company’s subsidiaries, if any; and • limitations that may be imposed by New Hampshire, Massachusetts and Maine state regulatory agencies. 13 Table of Contents In addition, before the Company can pay dividends on its common stock, it has to satisfy its debt obligations and comply with any statutory or contractual limitations. The Company’s current annual dividend is $1.38 per share of common stock, payable quarterly. However, the Company’s Board of Directors reviews Unitil’s dividend policy periodically in light of the factors referred to above, and the Company cannot assure the amount of dividends, if any, that may be paid in the future. The Company’s electric and natural gas distribution activities (including storing natural gas and supplemental gas supplies) involve numerous hazards and operating risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. Any such accident or costs could adversely affect the Company’s financial position and results of operations. Inherent in the Company’s electric and natural gas distribution activities are a variety of hazards and operating risks, including leaks, explosions, electrocutions and mechanical problems. These hazards and risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, damage to natural resources and impairment of the Company’s operations, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial position and results of operations. The Company maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses in accordance with customary industry practice. The location of pipelines, storage facilities and electric distribution equipment near populated areas (including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites) could increase the level of damages associated with these hazards and operating risks. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect the Company’s financial position or results of operations. The Company’s business is subject to environmental regulation in all jurisdictions in which it operates and its costs of compliance are significant. New, or changes to existing, environmental regulation, including those related to climate change or greenhouse gas emissions, and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s utility operations are generally subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources, and the health and safety of the Company’s employees. The Company’s utility operations also may be subject to new and emerging federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives related to climate change or greenhouse gas emissions including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s mandatory greenhouse gas reporting rule. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties and other sanctions; imposition of remedial requirements; and issuance of injunctions to ensure future compliance. Liability under certain environmental laws and regulations is strict, joint and several in nature. Although the Company believes it is in material compliance with all applicable environmental and safety laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that the Company will not incur significant costs and liabilities in the future. Moreover, it is possible that other developments, such as increasingly stringent federal, state or local environmental laws and regulations, including those related to climate change or greenhouse gas emissions, could result in increased environmental compliance costs. Catastrophic events could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The electric and natural gas utility industries are from time to time affected by catastrophic events, such as unusually severe weather and significant and widespread failures of plant and equipment. Other catastrophic occurrences, such as terrorist attacks on utility facilities, may occur in the future. Such events could inhibit the Company’s ability to provide electric or natural gas distribution services to its customers for an extended period, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents The Company’s operational and information systems on which it relies to conduct its business and serve customers could fail to function properly due to technological problems, a cyber-attack, acts of terrorism, severe weather, a solar event, an electromagnetic event, a natural disaster, the age and condition of information technology assets, human error, or other reasons, that could disrupt the Company’s operations and cause the Company to incur unanticipated losses and expense. The operation of the Company’s extensive electricity and natural gas systems rely on evolving information technology systems and network infrastructures that are likely to become more complex as new technologies and systems are developed to establish a “Smart Grid” to monitor and manage the nation’s interconnected electric transmission grids. The Company’s business is highly dependent on its ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex. The failure of these information systems and networks could significantly disrupt operations; result in outages and/or damages to the Company’s assets or operations or those of third parties on which it relies; and subject the Company to claims by customers or third parties, any of which could have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company’s information systems, including its financial information, operational systems, metering, and billing systems, require constant maintenance, modification, and updating, which can be costly and increases the risk of errors and malfunction. Any disruptions or deficiencies in existing information systems, or disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the modification or implementation of new information systems, could result in increased costs, the inability to track or collect revenues, the diversion of management’s and employees’ attention and resources, and could negatively impact the effectiveness of the Company’s control environment, and/or the Company’s ability to timely file required regulatory reports. Despite implementation of security and mitigation measures, all of the Company’s technology systems are vulnerable to impairment or failure due to cyber-attacks, viruses, human errors, acts of war or terrorism and other reasons. If the Company’s information technology systems were to fail or be materially impaired, the Company might be unable to fulfill critical business functions and serve its customers, which could have a material effect on the Company’s financial conditions, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, in the ordinary course of its business, the Company collects and retains sensitive information including personal identification information about customers and employees, customer energy usage, and other confidential information. The theft, damage, or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data could subject the Company to penalties for violation of applicable privacy laws or claims from third parties and could harm the Company’s reputation. Public utility companies are subject to adverse publicity and reputational risks, which make them vulnerable to negative customer perception and increased regulatory oversight or other sanctions. Utility companies, including the Company’s distribution utility subsidiaries, have a large consumer customer base and, as a result, are subject to public criticism focused on the reliability of their distribution services and the speed with which they are able to respond to outages caused by storm damage or other unanticipated events. Adverse publicity of this nature may render legislatures, public utility commissions and other regulatory authorities and government officials, less likely to view public utility companies in a favorable light, and may cause the Company to be susceptible to less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes or increased regulatory oversight. Unfavorable regulatory outcomes can include more stringent laws and regulations governing the Company’s operations, such as reliability and customer service quality standards or vegetation management requirements, as well as fines, penalties or other sanctions or requirements. The imposition of any of the foregoing could have a material negative impact on the Company’s results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. The Company’s business could be adversely affected if it is unable to retain its existing customers or attract new customers. The success of the Company’s business depends, in part, on its ability to maintain and increase its customer base. The Company’s failure to maintain or increase its customer base could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents The Company’s energy brokering customers may default in their performance under multi-year energy brokering contracts, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s non-regulated energy brokering business provides energy brokering and consulting services to a national client base of large commercial and industrial customers. Revenues from this business are primarily derived from brokering fees and charges billed to suppliers as customers take delivery of energy from these suppliers under term contracts. The Company’s customers may default in their performance under multi-year energy brokering contracts, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Our stock price may decline when our results decline or when events occur that are adverse to us or our industry. You can expect the market price of our common stock to decline when our results of operations decline or at any time when events actually or potentially adverse to us or the natural gas and electric industry occur. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 