ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Securities and Exchange Commission encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company’s future prospects and make informed investment decisions. This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, which include, without limitation, statements regarding anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify these statements by using words such as “anticipates,” “estimates,” “expects,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes” and similar words and terms in any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Achieving future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected here. Many factors also could cause actual results to be materially different from any future results that may be expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements as a result of future events or developments. Outlined below are some of the risks that we face that could affect the business and financial position for fiscal 2014 and beyond. However, they are not the only risks that we face. There may be other risks that are not presently known or that management currently believes are immaterial, which could also negatively affect our business or financial statements. We rely on sales to a small number of customers. The loss of substantial sales to any one of them could have an adverse effect on revenues and profits. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers, most of which are North American automobile manufacturers or related suppliers. The loss of substantial sales to any one of them could adversely affect our operations. In fiscal 2013, our three largest customers—Chrysler, U.S. Steel, and Ford—represented 20%, 16% and 8% of consolidated net sales, respectively. During the past several years, the North American automobile manufacturing sector has lost market share in the United States, primarily to Asian competitors. Although we are actively targeting Asian and European manufacturers as potential customers, any further market share loss by these North American-based automakers or suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Uncertainty in the global economy, global credit markets and the financial services industry may affect the automotive and consumer/industrial markets, and as a result, our business, financial position and liquidity. A significant portion of our revenues come from customers in the automotive industry. Purchases of new vehicles are typically discretionary for consumers and may be particularly affected by negative trends in the general economy. In addition, we sell in various automotive markets around the world, principally in North America, Europe and Asia. Those three markets are experiencing different trends in activity—North America and Asia are growing while Europe’s outlook is uncertain. Our sales and results of operations can be positively or negatively affected by changes in these three markets. Severe financial difficulties or key component shortages—including bankruptcy or other problems experienced by any automotive manufacturer or significant automotive supplier—or a significant downturn in any sector of the global economy, could have a significant disruptive effect on the entire automotive industry, including us, leading to supply chain disruptions and labor unrest, among other things. Severe financial difficulties at any of our major suppliers could also have a material adverse effect on us if we are unable to obtain, on a timely basis, the quantity and quality of components or materials needed to produce our products. We face intense competition in the acoustical and coated application industries and failure to successfully compete may negatively affect our business and financial performance. We operate in a highly competitive business environment and face intense competition from a growing number of competitors, including an increasing number of foreign-based companies that may have greater resources than us. The elements of competition include price, quality, technical support and customer service. In the past, our competitors—especially global competitors with low cost sources of supply outside the United States—have aggressively priced their products and/or introduced new products to increase their market share. If we are unable to compete in this highly competitive environment, our business and financial performance could be negatively affected. A large portion of our sales are EG-related products. While we believe we offer an outstanding range of EG products and capabilities, we 8 Table of Contents face the risk of substantial competition from other EG facilities and from alternative technologies, such as hot-dipping. We can offer no assurance that MSC will maintain the current volume of EG sales in the future. The acceptance of our acoustical products for brake shims, engine components and body panel laminate parts by customers in North America, Europe and Asia is critical to our financial performance. We have made a significant investment in the design and development of our material-based solutions to address NVH and mass-reduction problems in the automotive industry. If these solutions are not accepted by our customers in North America, Europe and Asia, our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. Our business could be negatively affected by deterioration in labor relations. As of February 28, 2013, we had 267 full- and part-time employees, of which approximately 44% were represented by labor unions with separate collective bargaining agreements. As these agreements expire, we cannot be assured that we will be able to renew the collective bargaining agreements on the same or similar terms, or at all. This could affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, if new labor agreements are negotiated, there can be no guarantee that these will be on satisfactory terms with regard to the efficiency and productivity of the work force. Further, we cannot be assured that the Company will not be subject to work stoppages or other labor disruptions that could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations or financial condition. Our sales and profitability in Asia could be adversely impacted by manufacturing problems at our third-party manufacturing partner in Malaysia. We continue to grow our sales in Asia. Our strategy to expand in Asia relies, in part, on the availability of lower cost, locally sourced products made available through our third-party manufacturing arrangement in Malaysia. If production problems arise in that facility, or our relationship with that manufacturer deteriorates, we could experience difficulty supporting our sales growth and/or profitability in Asia. Our sales and profitability in Europe could be adversely impacted by the ongoing uncertain economic conditions in the European Union. The ongoing economic challenges being faced in Europe have negatively impacted key automotive customers and continue to pose a challenge in meeting our strategic sales and profit goals there. Until the economy in Europe stabilizes, our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. Many of our customers in the automotive industry have major union contracts with the same automobile workers’ unions. Any extended work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. Two of our largest customers, and many of their key suppliers, have major union contracts with the same automobile workers unions. Some of these union contracts may expire or be subject to modification during fiscal 2014. Any extended work stoppage that may occur during these negotiations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. Fluctuations in the price and availability of raw materials, which includes steel and coatings, and other inputs used by us—particularly zinc, nickel, natural gas and electricity—could adversely affect our ability to conduct business in a timely and profitable manner. In recent years, the availability and price of metal have fluctuated, as mills increased or decreased their production in response to economic changes. Those changes have driven price changes that, at times, caused us to increase prices in a competitive market and/or absorb higher costs. We also experienced fluctuations in the price of zinc, nickel, electricity and natural gas in all periods presented. Our future profitability may be adversely affected to the extent we are unable to pass higher raw material costs to our customers. For more information, see the discussion in Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Our customers or suppliers may be affected by natural disasters. In recent years, a series of natural disasters have had short- to medium-term negative impacts on local economies around the world, including areas where we have operations, resulting in temporary reductions or changes in our customers’ purchase practices. The occurrence of natural disasters in any part of the world, especially North America, could have a negative effect on our sales or operating costs. 9 Table of Contents An increase in the environmental risks, costs, recoveries and penalties associated with our past and present manufacturing operations could adversely affect our financial performance. We are a party to various legal proceedings in connection with the remediation of certain environmental matters. We record reserves for these environmental matters using our historical experience and relevant information available from various third parties. There are a number of assumptions made in establishing these reserves including, without limitation, the estimated extent of environmental damage to any particular site, the available methods of remedy, estimated contribution of various other potentially responsible parties and the discretionary authority of federal and state regulatory authorities in bringing enforcement actions. New environmental issues, including potential new laws related to reducing greenhouse gasses, or changes in the assumptions surrounding existing environmental issues could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business and future development may be adversely affected if we are unable to retain key personnel. Our success is highly dependent upon the services of key personnel in all areas of our business including, but not limited to, senior management, sales (including people trained in our NVH sales methodology) and operations, administration and finance. The loss of the services of one or more of these people could have an adverse effect upon the business and plans for future development. In addition, we have significantly reduced management and administrative positions in recent years as a result of cost-cutting initiatives. Lack of management resources could affect our ability to operate and compete in our industry. Shifts in supply models could adversely affect our revenue and profits. As market conditions change, there may be shifts in the supply model for certain products. We must adapt our pricing strategy accordingly, which may affect the comparability of revenues, operating margins and working capital for the fiscal years presented. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially in the future. In recent years, the trading price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially and may continue to do so as a result of a number of factors, some of which are not in our control. Here are some of the key factors: • Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition or annual or quarterly results of operations • Our inability to meet or exceed expectations of analysts or investors • Changes in the market valuations of companies viewed as similar to us • Changes in key personnel • Future sales of our common stock • Share repurchase programs • Increased competition • Realization of any of the risks described elsewhere under “Risk Factors” • General market and economic conditions. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock—regardless of our actual operating performance—and could prevent investors from selling shares of our common stock above the purchase price they paid. In addition, from time to time stock markets experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies trading on them. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Our access to credit may be limited. Although we currently have a $7.5 million credit line, our ability to draw on that line of credit is limited by outstanding letters of credit and by a borrowing base of accounts receivable and liens on other Company assets, including inventory, equipment, real property and intellectual property. At February 28, 2013, the net amount available to us under the line of credit was $3.9 million due to borrowing base limitations. There can be no assurances that we will continue to have access to this portion or any of the credit line if our operating and financial performance do not satisfy relevant borrowing base criteria. If we do not satisfy these criteria, and if we are unable to secure necessary waivers or other amendments from the lender of the credit line, we will not have access to this credit. In addition, the lender may, at its discretion, modify the percentage used in computing the borrowing base, which may limit the amounts available for future borrowings. 10 Table of Contents Although we believe that our operating cash flows, on-hand cash levels and access to credit will give us the ability to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that they will do so. The lack of the borrowing availability under the credit line and our potential inability to obtain a replacement source of credit could materially affect our operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 