Item 1A. Risk Factors The Securities and Exchange Commission encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company’s future prospects and make informed investment decisions. This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, which include, without limitation, statements regarding anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify these statements by using words such as “anticipates,” “estimates,” “expects,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes” and similar words and terms in any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Achieving future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected here. Many factors also could cause actual results to be materially different from any future results that may be expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements as a result of future events or developments. Outlined below are some of the risks that we face that could affect the business and financial position for fiscal 2011 and beyond. However, they are not the only risks that we face. There may be other risks that are not presently known or that management currently believes are immaterial, which could also negatively affect our business or financial statements. The recent unprecedented deterioration in the global economy, global credit markets and the financial services industry has severely and negatively affected the automotive, appliance and U.S. construction industries, our major markets, and, as a result, our business, financial position and liquidity. The current economic and financial conditions and the resulting global recession have resulted in a severe and global tightening of credit and a liquidity crisis. As a result, nearly every major economy in the world now faces a widespread reduction of business activity, restrictive credit markets and increased unemployment. A significant portion of our revenues come from customers in the automotive and U.S. construction industries. Purchases of new vehicles and homes are typically discretionary for consumers and may be particularly affected by negative trends in the general economy. The above-described economic conditions led to a dramatic decline in the construction markets in the United States and low consumer confidence. This resulted in decreased construction development and delayed and significantly reduced purchases of durable consumer goods, such as automobiles. Further economic decline, which results in further significant reduction in the automotive or U.S. construction industries and a continued shift away from trucks and sports utility vehicles, would have a further material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Three of our four largest customers, Ford, Chrysler and General Motors, have all taken significant restructuring actions in an effort to improve profitability and remain solvent. Automakers in other world markets are also experiencing difficulties from a weakened economy, tightening credit markets and reduced demand for their products. Severe financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, of any automotive manufacturer or significant automotive supplier could have a significant disruptive effect on the entire automotive industry, leading to supply chain disruptions and labor unrest, among other things. For example, if a parts supplier were to cease operations, it could force the automotive manufacturers to whom the supplier provides parts to shut down their operations. This, in turn, could force other suppliers, including us, to suspend production of products for these automotive manufacturers. Severe financial difficulties at any of our major suppliers could also have a material adverse effect on us if we are unable to obtain, on a timely basis, the quantity and quality of components or materials needed to produce our products. The recent downturn in the automotive and U.S. construction industries and the business condition of our major customers has already negatively affected our revenues, profitability, operating results and cash flow. The continuation or worsening of these industry conditions would exacerbate these effects, which might make it necessary for us to take further restructuring actions and charges. If any of our automotive or construction industry customers becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy, our ability to recover accounts receivable from that customer would be adversely affected, we may incur further impairment charges and any payment we received in the preference period prior to a bankruptcy filing may be potentially recoverable from us by the bankrupt company. 9 Table of Contents Our access to credit may be limited. Although we currently have a $7.5 million credit line, our ability to draw on that line of credit is limited by outstanding letters of credit and by a borrowing base of accounts receivable and liens on other Company assets, including inventory, equipment, real property and intellectual property. At February 28, 2010, the net amount available to us under the line of credit was $5.8 million due to borrowing base limitations. There can be no assurances that we will continue to have access to this portion or any of the credit line if our operating and financial performance do not satisfy relevant borrowing base criteria. If we do not satisfy these criteria, and if we are unable to secure necessary waivers or other amendments from the lender of the credit line, we will not have access to this credit. In addition, the lender may, at its discretion, modify the percentage used in computing the borrowing base, which may limit the amounts available for future borrowings. Although we believe that our operating cash flow, financial assets and access to credit will give us the ability to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that they will do so. The lack of the borrowing availability under the credit line and our potential inability to obtain a replacement source of credit could materially affect our operations and financial condition. We are under substantial pressure from customers to reduce the prices of our products. There is substantial and continuing pressure on automotive suppliers to reduce costs, including the costs of products we supply. Cost-cutting initiatives adopted by our larger customers generally result in increased downward pressure on pricing. Because of their purchasing size, they can influence market participants to compete on price terms. Price reductions to customers appear to have become a regular feature of our business environment. To maintain our profit margins, we seek price reductions from our suppliers, improve production processes to increase manufacturing efficiency, update product designs to reduce costs and develop new products, the benefits of which support stable or increased prices. Our ability to pass through higher raw material costs to our customers is limited, with cost recovery often less than 100% and often on a delayed basis. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to reduce costs in an amount equal to price reductions and increases in raw material costs. If we are unable to generate sufficient cost savings in the future to offset price reductions, our gross margins may decrease and our results of operations may otherwise be adversely affected. We face intense competition in the acoustical and coated application industries and failure to successfully compete may negatively affect our business and financial performance. We operate in a highly competitive business environment and face intense competition from a growing number of competitors, including an increasing number of foreign-based companies that may have greater resources than us. The elements of competition include price, quality and customer service. In the past, our competitors, especially global competitors with low cost sources of supply outside the United States, have aggressively priced their products and/or introduced new products in order to increase market share. If we are unable to compete in this highly competitive environment, our business and financial performance could be negatively affected. We rely on sales to a small number of customers. The loss of any one of them could have an adverse effect on revenues and profits. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers (most of which are North American automobile manufacturers) and the loss of any one of them could adversely affect our operations. In fiscal 2010, our three largest customers, Ford, Chrysler, and General Motors, represented 21%, 11% and 10% of consolidated net sales, respectively. During the past several years, these customers have lost market share in the United States, primarily to Asian competitors. Although we are actively targeting these Asian competitors as potential customers, any further market share loss by these North American-based automakers could have a material adverse effect on our business. In fiscal 2010, these automakers continued with significant production cuts, which reduced the demand for our acoustical and coated products and hurt our profitability. 10 Table of Contents Three of our four largest customers all have major union contracts with the same automobile workers’ unions. Any extended work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. Three of our four largest customers, and many of their key suppliers, all have major union contracts with the same automobile workers unions. Some of these union contracts may expire or be subject to modification during fiscal 2011. Any extended work stoppage which may occur during these negotiations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. The volatility in the price and availability of raw material and other inputs used by us, particularly steel, zinc, nickel, natural gas and electricity, could adversely affect our ability to conduct business in a timely and profitable manner. In recent years, there has been price volatility for certain readily available metals that meet the requirements of our customers. That volatility has, at times, caused us to increase prices in a competitive market and/or absorb higher costs. Our future profitability may be adversely affected to the extent we are unable to pass higher raw material costs to our customers. We experienced volatility in the price of zinc, nickel and natural gas in all periods presented. Increases in raw material prices, such as for zinc, and prices of electricity and other energy sources adversely affect our profitability. For more information, see the discussion in Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and in Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements entitled “Commodity Contracts.” The acceptance of our brake damping materials, engine components and body panel laminate parts by customers in North America, Europe and Asia is critical to our financial performance. We have made a significant investment in the design and development of our material-based solutions to address NVH problems in the automotive industry. If these solutions are not marketed successfully in North America, Europe and Asia, our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully introduce and market new products, we may not achieve our targeted financial results. Management believes that our past success has been partially due to our ability to design and market new solutions to meet customer needs. However, if these new solutions are not accepted by customers, we may not be able to attract new business or maintain existing customers, which would adversely affect our business. Our financial performance could be adversely affected by an inability to effectively execute and manage our business objectives. The highly competitive nature of our industry requires that we effectively execute and manage our business including our operating initiatives, which aim to reduce costs and drive productivity and quality improvements. Our inability to effectively control costs and drive productivity improvements could affect our profits. In addition, our failure to provide high-quality, innovative products could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our sales, which could negatively affect our revenues and overall financial performance. Additionally, our growth depends on successful new product and process development. Our future results and ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets, and our ability to successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing markets on a timely basis. An increase in the environmental risks, costs, recoveries and penalties associated with our past and present manufacturing operations could adversely affect our financial performance. We are a party to various legal proceedings in connection with the remediation of certain environmental matters. We record reserves for these environmental matters using our historical experience and relevant information available from various third parties. There are a number of assumptions made in establishing these reserves including, without limitation, the estimated extent of environmental damage to any particular site, the available methods of remedy, estimated contribution of various other potentially 11 Table of Contents responsible parties and the discretionary authority of federal and state regulatory authorities in bringing enforcement actions. New environmental issues or changes in the assumptions surrounding existing environmental issues could have an adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition including potential new laws related to reducing greenhouse gasses. Our business and future development may be adversely affected if we are unable to retain key personnel. Our success is highly dependent upon the services of key personnel in all areas of our business including, but not limited to, senior management, sales (including people trained in our NVH sales methodology) and operations, administration and finance. The loss of the services of one or more of these people could have an adverse effect upon the business and plans for future development. In addition, we have significantly reduced management and administrative positions in recent years as a result of cost-cutting initiatives. Lack of management resources could affect our ability to operate and compete in our industry. Our business could be negatively affected by deterioration in labor relations. As of February 28, 2010, we had 339 full- and part-time employees, of which approximately 49% were represented by labor unions with separate collective bargaining agreements. As these agreements expire, we cannot be assured that we will be able to renew the collective bargaining agreements on the same or similar terms, or at all, which could affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, if new labor agreements are negotiated, there can be no guarantee that these will be on satisfactory terms with regard to the efficiency and productivity of the work force. Further, we cannot be assured that the Company will not be subject to work stoppages that could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations or financial condition. Our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards may be limited. As of February 28, 2010, we had net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) of approximately $9.0 million for federal income tax purposes which will expire in 2030. These NOLs may be used to offset future taxable income, to the extent we generate any taxable income, and thereby reduce or eliminate our future federal income taxes otherwise payable. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 382”) imposes limitations on a corporation’s ability to utilize NOLs and other tax attributes to offset taxable income if the corporation experiences a majority ownership change. In general terms, a majority ownership change may result from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50% over a three-year period. In the event that a majority ownership change has occurred, or were to occur, utilization of our NOLs would be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years until the applicable expiration of the respective NOLs. As of February 28, 2010, we believe that there has not been a significant change in our ownership during the prior three years, as defined in Section 382. However, there is no assurance that we will not undergo a majority ownership change in the future. In addition, because an ownership change for federal tax purposes can occur based on transactions by our existing stockholders, whether we undergo a majority ownership change may be a matter beyond our control. A full valuation allowance for these NOLs, and other tax credits, has been established after analyzing the ability of the Company to generate sufficient taxable income to use them. Overcapacity in the coil coating industry could negatively affect our business. Excess capacity continues to exist in the domestic coil coating market, resulting in extreme competition in pricing, terms of sale and facility utilization. These effects related to excess capacity could negatively affect our profitability. Shifts in supply models could adversely affect our revenue and profits. As market conditions change, there may be shifts in the supply model for certain products. We must adapt our pricing strategy accordingly which may affect the comparability of revenues, operating margins and working capital for the fiscal years presented. We are no longer listed on the New York Stock Exchange; our common stock is traded in the Over-The-Counter market. The delisting of our common stock by the NYSE and the movement of trading of our common stock to over-the-counter markets could materially and adversely affect our business and the price of our common 12 Table of Contents stock. It could, among other things, reduce our stockholders’ ability to buy and sell our common stock, reduce the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, or inhibit our ability to arrange financing or access the public capital markets. Any of these occurrences could negatively affect the market price of our common stock or cause the market price to become more volatile. In addition, we may experience other adverse effects including, without limitation, the loss of confidence in us by current and prospective suppliers, customers, employees and others with whom we have or may seek to initiate business relationships. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 