ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The Securities and Exchange Commission encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company’s future prospects and make informed investment decisions. This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, which include, without limitation, those statements regarding anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. MSC (“we” or “us”) has tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as “anticipates”, “estimates”, “expects”, “projects”, “intends”, “plans”, “believes” and words and terms of similar substance in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. Many factors also could cause actual results to be materially different from any future results that may be expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. MSC undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements as a result of future events or developments. Outlined below are some of the risks that MSC faces that could affect the business and financial position for fiscal 2007 and beyond. However, they are not the only risks that MSC faces. There may be additional risks that are not presently known or that management currently believes are immaterial which could also impair business or financial position. We face intense competition in the acoustical and coated metal application industry and failure to successfully compete may negatively affect our business and financial performance. We operate in a highly competitive business environment and face intense competition from a growing number of competitors, including an increasing number of foreign-based competitors with greater resources than us. The elements of competition include price, quality and customer service. In the past, our competitors, especially global competitors with low-cost sources of supply outside the United States, have aggressively priced their products and/or introduced new products in order to increase market share. If we are unable to compete in this highly competitive environment, our business and financial performance could be negatively affected. We rely on sales to a small number of customers, the loss of any one of which could have an adverse impact on revenues. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers (most of which are North American automobile manufacturers), the loss of any one of which could adversely impact our operations. In fiscal 2006, our three largest customers, DaimlerChrysler, General Motors and Ford, represented 14%, 12% and 10% of consolidated net sales, respectively. During the past several years, these customers have lost market share in the United States, primarily to Asian competitors. Although we are actively targeting these Asian competitors as potential customers, any further market share loss by these North American-based automakers could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our three largest customers all have major union contracts with the same automobile workers unions. Any extended work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. The volatility in the price and availability of raw material inputs used by us, particularly steel and natural gas, could adversely affect our ability to conduct business both timely and profitably. In recent years, there has been a shortage of readily available metal that meets the requirements of our customers. Such shortage adversely affects our ability to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. In conjunction with that shortage and rising material costs, the cost of metal used in our products has risen dramatically over the past two years, which has caused us to increase prices in a competitive market and/or absorb higher costs. Our future profitability may be adversely affected to the extent we are unable to pass higher raw material costs to our customers. In fiscal 2006, there has been a dramatic volatility in the price of natural gas, particularly subsequent to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in the Gulf region. Increases in natural gas prices and prices of other energy sources adversely affect our profitability. 10 Table of Contents The acceptance of the our brake damping materials, engine components and body panel laminate parts by customers in North America, Europe and Asia is critical to our financial performance. We have made a significant investment in the design and development of our material-based solutions to NVH problems in the automotive industry. If these solutions are not introduced and marketed successfully into North America, Europe and Asia, our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. If the Company is unable to successfully introduce and market new products, it may not achieve its targeted financial results. Management believes that the Company’s past success has been partially due to its ability to design and market new solutions to customer needs. Management also believes that the construction of the ARC will provide the Company with a state-of-the-art facility in which to accelerate the development of new products and technologies. However, if these new products and technologies are not accepted by customers, the Company may not be able attract new business or maintain existing customers, thus adversely affecting the Company’s business. Our financial performance could be adversely affected by an inability to effectively execute and manage our business objectives. The highly competitive nature of our industry requires that we effectively execute and manage our business including our operating initiatives, which aim to reduce costs and drive productivity and quality improvements. Our inability to effectively control costs and drive productivity improvements could affect our profits. In addition, our failure to provide high-quality, innovative products could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our sales, which could negatively affect our revenues and overall financial performance. Additionally, our success is dependent on successful new product and process development. Our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully and timely identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. An increase in the environmental risks, costs, recoveries and penalties associated with our past and present manufacturing operations could adversely affect our financial performance. We are a party to various legal proceedings in connection with the remediation of certain environmental matters. We record reserves for these environmental matters using our historical experience and relevant information available from various third parties. There are a number of assumptions made in establishing these reserves, including, without limitation, the estimated extent of environmental damage to any particular site, the available methods of remedy, the contribution of various other potentially responsible parties and the discretionary authority of federal and state regulatory authorities in bringing enforcement actions. New environmental issues or changes in the assumptions surrounding existing environmental issues could have an adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business and future development may be adversely affected if we are unable to retain key personnel. Our success is highly dependent upon the services of key personnel in all areas of our business including, but not limited to, senior management, sales (including persons trained in our NVH sales methodology) and operations, administration and finance. The loss of the services of one or more of these people could have an adverse effect upon the business and plans for future development. In addition, we have downsized administrative and management positions in past years as a result of cost-cutting initiatives. Lack of management resources could impact our ability to operate and compete in our industry. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations pursuant thereto, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report must contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by 11 Table of Contents management. Such report must also contain a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal controls. Management’s report is included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 9A. We reported five material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2005. We employed significant resources to remediate these material weaknesses in fiscal 2006 and we were successful in remediating four of the five material weaknesses. We are still reporting a material weakness in the accounting for income taxes. Should we report any future material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, there can be no assurance that we can identify or remediate the weaknesses in a timely manner. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. As a result, we may be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities such as the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) or the New York Stock Exchange. Moreover, current and potential stockholders and other third parties could lose confidence in our financial reporting which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. The SEC has requested information about the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. On May 8, 2006, the SEC requested that we provide information regarding the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting we reported in fiscal 2005. This matter has the potential to adversely affect us in a number of ways, including the following: 1) we may incur significant expenses in connection with responding to the request, regardless of its outcome; 2) responding to the request may divert the time and attention of our management from normal business operations; and 3) if the SEC does determine to bring a proceeding involving us, depending on its outcome, we may be required to pay fines and/or take corrective actions that would increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our operations. We are fully cooperating with the SEC’s request. We may experience adverse effects on the results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations. The implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in operating results in future periods. Our business could be negatively impacted by a deterioration in labor relations. As of February 28, 2006, we had 557 full-time employees, of which approximately 45% were represented by labor unions with separate collective bargaining agreements. One of these agreements expired in March 2006 and two other agreements expire in September 2006 and February 2007. We cannot be assured that we will be able to renew the collective bargaining agreements on the same or similar terms, or at all, which could affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Moreover, if new labor agreements are negotiated, there can be no guarantee that the agreements will be at satisfactory terms with regard to the efficiency and productivity of the work force. Further, we cannot be assured that we will not be subject to work stoppages that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None . 12 Table of Contents 