ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are a development stage company that currently has limited operations and no revenues. The focus of current management is concerned primarily with maintaining our public filings and in locating and completing a suitable business combination. Until we complete a business combination, we will have no operations and will generate no operating revenues. The following is a description of important risk factors affecting current and future results of our operations. Risks Related to our Business We are a development stage company with no current operations and, accordingly, there is no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. Our business objective is to acquire an operating business in the technology industry. Although we have conducted a preliminary review, we have no plans, arrangements or understandings with any prospective acquisition candidates nor have we engaged any agent or other representative to identify or locate suitable acquisition candidates. We have no present revenues and do not expect to generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. Since we do not know what the operating history, if any, of any potential acquisition will be, there is no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. Since we have not currently selected any target business with which to complete a business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the Company's operations. Since we have not yet identified a prospective target business, we are unable to present any basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the target business' operations. While we do not intend to target financially unstable companies or companies in the development stage, to the extent we complete a business combination with such a company, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. We would consider a company to be financially unstable if, for example, a substantial portion of its cash flow were dedicated to its debt service obligations or its expected capital expenditure requirements exceeded the ability of the target business to fund them. In addition, we would consider a business to be in its early stages of development or growth if it is newly formed and is in the process of developing its initial technologies, processes, services, or products. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. Since we have limited cash resources, we expect that any acquisition will require the issuance of a substantial number of shares of our capital stock or debt obligations (see sections below); otherwise, we will have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition candidate. As we will favor underperforming companies as business combination opportunities, we may be subject to the additional risks associated with the financial and operational condition of underperforming companies. As we evaluate business combination opportunities, we intend to favor underperforming companies that we believe have the potential to increase their performance substantially through changes in operations or strategy. As a result, following the consummation of any such business combination, we may be subject to additional risks that would not exist if we were to consummate a business combination with companies that are not underperforming. These risks may relate to, among other things, the following: * the potentially weak financial, operational and/or strategic position of the underperforming company; * identification and retention of individuals with the requisite skills and experience to replace the existing management of the acquired company; * dedication of substantial resources to restructuring the operations and finances of the acquired company; * development of strategic business initiatives, including, without limitation, sales and marketing plans and research and development plans, as well the identification of individuals or third parties capable of executing those initiatives; and * restructuring the acquired company's operations to improve its business model, financial condition, and results of operations. To address each of the foregoing risks, we will be required to dedicate substantial financial and human resources which would otherwise be used by us to expand a business following the business combination, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. We may issue shares of our capital stock to complete a business combination, which would dilute the equity interest of our stockholders and could cause a change in control of our ownership. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 80,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share. After the recent implementation of a reverse stock split, there were 139,191 shares of our common stock outstanding. Although we have no current commitments to issue our securities in any acquisition, we will, in all likelihood, issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete a business combination. We additionally expect to issue a substantial number of shares of our common stock in conversion of currently outstanding convertible preferred stock and convertible debt obligations. Additional shares could be issued in exercise of currently outstanding warrants. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: * may significantly dilute the equity interest of our public shareholders; * may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our securities; and * may subordinate the rights of holders of our common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock. The issuance of a substantial number of our shares of common stock will also likely cause a change in control, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards. At June 30, 2006, we had net operating loss carry forwards for Federal income tax purposes of approximately $64,602,766, which will expire in various amounts in the years 2008 through 2022 if not utilized. These net operating loss carry forwards are available to us to offset future taxable income, subject to significant limitations and provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. One such limitation provides that if there is a change in control, these net operating loss carry forwards can be severely curtailed or lost entirely. A change in control would most likely also result in the resignation or removal of our present management. We may issue debt securities or otherwise incur substantial debt to complete a business combination, which may adversely affect our leverage and financial condition. Although we have no commitments as of the date of this report to issue any debt securities, or to otherwise incur additional debt, we may choose to incur substantial debt to complete a business combination or to fund operations until such time as a business combination can be completed. If we issue debt securities, it could result in: * default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; * acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contains covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant is breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; * our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and * our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding. Our ability to effect a business combination and to execute any potential business plan afterwards will be totally dependent upon the efforts of key personnel, some of whom may join us following a business combination and whom we may have only a limited ability to evaluate. Our ability to effect a business combination will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our current management and its advisors. Our current management does not intend to assume the day-to-day operational management of our target business, and the precise role of any key personnel will be the subject of negotiation in any business combination. Part of the analysis of a particular acquisition will include an evaluation of the experience and skill set of the target business' management and negotiate as part of the business combination that certain members of that management remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the company. The future role of specific key personnel following a business combination, however, cannot presently be fully ascertained. Our current management will allocate its time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This could impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our current management is not required to commit its full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All of our executive officers are engaged in other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours to our affairs. If our executive officers' other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could impact our ability to consummate a business combination. We may for a period of time only be able to complete one business combination, which would cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. We may have the ability to complete only a single business combination. Accordingly, the prospects for our ability to effect our acquisition strategy may be: * solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, or * dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities that may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. We currently pay our ongoing administrative expenses through borrowings from Trident Growth Fund, LP ("Trident"). Because we have not yet identified any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If our current financial resources prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the depletion of the available resources in search of a target business, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing is unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we will be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing may stall the development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS The statements contained in this report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our or our management's expectations, hopes, beliefs, intentions or strategies regarding the future. In addition, any statements that refer to projections, forecasts or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. The words "anticipates," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intends," "may," "might," "plan," "possible," "potential," "predicts," "project," "should," "would" and similar expressions may identify forward- looking statements, but the absence of these words does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements in this report may include, for example, statements about our: * ability to complete a combination with one or more target businesses; * success in retaining or recruiting, or changes required in, our officers, key employees or directors following a business combination; * officers and directors allocating their time to other businesses and potentially having conflicts of interest with our business or in approving a business combination, as a result of which they would then receive expense reimbursements; * potential inability to obtain additional financing to complete a business combination; * potential change in control if we acquire one or more target businesses for stock; * public securities' limited liquidity and trading; * our financial performance following any business combination. The forward-looking statements contained in this report are based on our current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on us. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting us will be those that we have anticipated. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties (some of which are beyond our control) or other assumptions that may cause actual results or performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those factors described under the heading "Risk Factors." Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of our assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary in material respects from those projected in these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws and/or if and when management knows or has a reasonable basis on which to conclude that previously disclosed projections are no longer reasonably attainable. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 