Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock or other securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully read the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this report before you decide to purchase our common stock. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occurs, we may be unable to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial and operating results could be harmed. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks and you may lose all or part of your investment. Please see "Important Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" at the beginning of this report. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses, we expect to continue to incur losses, and we may never become profitable. We have not been profitable since our formation in 1984. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $362.3 million. Our net loss for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $48.6 million. We had net losses of $32.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and $23.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. These losses resulted principally from costs incurred in our research and development programs and from our general and administrative activities. To date, we have been engaged only in research and development activities and have not generated any significant revenue from product sales. We do not anticipate that our picoplatin product candidate will be commercially available before 2010, if at all. We expect to incur additional operating losses in the future. These losses may increase significantly as we expand our clinical trials and increase our research and development activities and seek to commercialize picoplatin or any future product candidates. Our ability to achieve long-term profitability is dependent upon achieving successful results in clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals for our picoplatin product candidate and successfully commercializing our products alone or with third parties. We will need to raise additional capital to develop and commercialize our product candidates and fund operations, and our future access to capital is uncertain and additional financing may have dilutive or adverse effects on our shareholders. Considering our projected operating results, we believe that our current cash, cash equivalent and investment securities balances will provide adequate resources to fund operations at least into the first quarter of 2010. However, given the uncertainties of outcomes of the Company's ongoing clinical trials, there is no assurance that the Company can achieve its projected operating results. Thereafter, unless we raise additional funds, we will be in default of the minimum unrestricted cash requirement and potentially other provisions of the amended and restated loan agreement with GE Healthcare Financial Services and Silicon Valley Bank, as described in the risk factor below. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, assuming that we will continue as a going concern and do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. The report of our independent registered public accountants issued in connection with our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 contains a statement expressing substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. It is expensive to develop cancer therapy products and conduct clinical trials for these products. We have not generated revenue from the commercialization of any product, and we expect to continue to incur substantial net operating losses and negative cash flows from operations for the foreseeable future. We will require substantial additional funding to develop and commercialize picoplatin and to fund our future operations. 19 Management is continuously exploring financing alternatives, including: •raising additional capital through the public or private sale of equity or debt securities or through the establishment of credit or other funding facilities; and •entering into strategic collaborations, which may include joint ventures or partnerships for product development and commercialization, merger, sale of assets or other similar transactions. We may not be able to obtain the required additional capital or enter into relationships with corporate partners on a timely basis, on favorable terms, or at all. Conditions in the capital markets in general, and in the life science capital market specifically, may affect our potential financing sources and opportunities for strategic partnering. Uncertainty about current global conditions and the current financial turmoil affecting capital and credit markets may make it particularly difficult for us to obtain capital market financing or credit on favorable terms, if at all, or to attract potential strategic partners. If we raise additional funds by issuing common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock, our shareholders may experience substantial dilution, and new investors could have rights superior to current security holders. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional cash when needed, we may be forced to reduce expenses through the delay, reduction or curtailment of our picoplatin development and commercialization activities or through other cost-savings measures, including the sale of our company or sale of our assets. The amount of additional financing we will require in the future will depend on a number of factors, including: •the costs of performing our obligations under our loan facility with GE Healthcare Financial Services and Silicon Valley Bank, including the cost of interest and other payment obligations and penalties and the cost of complying with the covenants and restrictions under the amended and restated loan agreement. •the scope and timing of our picoplatin clinical program and commercialization efforts, including the progress and costs of our ongoing Phase III trial of picoplatin in small cell lung cancer, our ongoing Phase II trials in colorectal and prostate cancers, as well as our ongoing Phase I trial of picoplatin (oral formulation) in solid tumors; •our ability to obtain clinical supplies of picoplatin active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, and finished drug product in a timely and cost effective manner; •actions taken by the FDA and other regulatory authorities; •the timing and amount of any milestone or other payments we might receive from or be obligated to pay to potential strategic partners; •our degree of success in commercializing picoplatin; •the emergence of competing technologies and products, and other adverse market developments; •the acquisition or in-licensing of other products or intellectual property; •the costs of any research collaborations or strategic partnerships established; and •the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights. 20 Restrictions imposed under the terms of our current loan facility may limit our ability to utilize capital for operations and may limit our ability to raise capital through the sale of assets or a merger not approved by the lenders. On September 2, 2008, we entered into an amended and restated loan and security agreement, with GE Healthcare Financial Services and Silicon Valley Bank in the principal amount of $27.6 million. The loan agreement, the terms of which are described in detail under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources," contains restrictions on our ability, without the prior consent of the lenders, to: •dispose of certain assets, •engage in certain mergers and acquisition transactions, •incur indebtedness, •create liens on assets, •make investments, •pay dividends, and •repurchase stock. The loan agreement also contains covenants requiring us to maintain a minimum amount of unrestricted cash during the term of the loan equal to the lesser of (i) $17.9 million or (ii) the outstanding aggregate principal balance of the term loans plus $4 million. This minimum unrestricted cash requirement may limit our ability to utilize a portion of our cash in 2009 to pay for operating costs and to pursue our clinical and commercial strategies. The loan agreement contains events of default that include: •nonpayment of principal, interest or fees, •breaches of covenants, •material adverse changes, •bankruptcy and insolvency events, •cross defaults to any other indebtedness, •material judgments, •inaccuracy of representations and warranties, and •events constituting a change of control. The loan agreement limits our ability to dispose of certain assets, engage in certain mergers, incur certain indebtedness, make certain distributions or engage in certain investment activities without the prior consent of the lenders. Additionally, the minimum unrestricted cash requirement under the loan agreement prohibits us from utilizing a significant portion of our cash ($17.9 million in 2009) to pay for operating costs and to pursue our clinical and commercial strategies. We have no assurance that, especially in light of the distressed economic environment, that the lenders will be willing to waive or renegotiate the terms of the loan agreement to address or avoid financial or other loan defaults. Presently, taking into account the minimum unrestricted cash requirement under the loan agreement and our projected operating results, we believe that our current cash, cash equivalent and investment securities balances will provide adequate resources to fund operations at least into the first quarter of 2010. However, given the uncertainties of outcomes of the Company's ongoing clinical trials, 21 there is no assurance that the Company can achieve its projected operating results. Thereafter, unless we raise additional funds, we will be in default of the minimum unrestricted cash requirement and potentially other provisions of the loan agreement. The occurrence of an event of default would increase the applicable rate of interest by 5% and could result in the acceleration of our payment obligations under the loan agreement. If an event of default were to occur, we might not have sufficient funds to repay the loan or to fund our continuing operations. In such case, we would need to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our picoplatin trials and commercialization efforts; reduce our workforce, license our picoplatin product candidates for development and commercialization by third parties; attempt to sell the company, cease operations or declare bankruptcy. We have no assurance that we can obtain financing or otherwise raise additional funds, if at all, on terms acceptable to us or to our lenders. Our potential products must undergo rigorous clinical testing and regulatory approvals, which are costly and time consuming, and may subject us to unanticipated delays or prevent us from marketing any products. The manufacture and marketing of our picoplatin product candidate and our research and development activities are subject to regulation for safety, efficacy and quality by the FDA in the United States and by comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals, including any foreign approvals, is expensive, often takes many years and can vary substantially depending on the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. We will not be able to commercialize picoplatin until we obtain regulatory approvals, and consequently any delay in obtaining, or our inability to obtain, regulatory approvals could materially adversely affect our business. We have had only limited experience in filing and pursuing applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. This may impede our ability to obtain timely approvals from the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies. If we violate regulatory requirements at any stage, whether before or after marketing approval is obtained, we may be fined, forced to remove a product from the market or experience other adverse consequences, including delay of the approval of our marketing applications, which would materially harm our business and financial results. Additionally, we may not be able to obtain the labeling claims necessary or desirable for product promotion and could be required to conduct post-marketing studies on the safety or effectiveness of our products. If we or other parties identify serious side effects after any of our products are on the market, or if manufacturing or regulatory problems occur, regulatory approval may be withdrawn and reformulation of our products, additional clinical trials, changes in labeling of our products, and/or additional marketing applications may be required. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing of our proposed products outside the United States vary widely from country to country. Foreign approvals may take longer to obtain than FDA approvals and can involve additional testing. Foreign regulatory approval processes include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval processes. Also, approval of a product by the FDA does not ensure approval of the same product by the health authorities of other countries. We may take longer to complete our clinical trials than we project, or we may be unable to complete them at all. In April 2007, we initiated an international, multi-center randomized Phase III SPEAR (Study of Picoplatin Efficacy After Relapse) pivotal trial of picoplatin in small cell lung cancer. The Phase III trial, which is being conducted pursuant to an SPA with the FDA, is designed to compare the efficacy and safety of picoplatin plus best supportive care with best supportive care alone as a second-line therapy. The study is designed to enroll approximately 400 patients with small cell lung cancer whose 22 disease did not respond to a first-line platinum-containing (cisplatin or carboplatin) chemotherapy regimen or whose disease responded initially to first-line platinum- containing therapy, but then progressed within six months after completion of treatment. Patients are being randomized on a 2:1 ratio to receive picoplatin plus best supportive care or best supportive care alone. The primary endpoint of the study is improved overall survival, as measured in time from randomization to death. Secondary endpoints include response rates, disease control, duration of response and progression-free survival. We currently anticipate completing patient enrollment and commencing the rolling submission of an NDA with the FDA in 2009. The rolling submission process enables companies that have been granted Fast Track designation to submit sections of the NDA for FDA review as they become available. The actual timing for completion of patient enrollment and the commencement of the rolling NDA process, however, will depend on the rate of patient enrollment, survival times of all patients in the trial, as well as other factors, such as patient performance status and extent of disease. We currently anticipate completing the rolling NDA submission and, subject to FDA approval, initiating the commercialization of picoplatin during 2010. FDA approval of picoplatin will depend on a variety of factors, including whether the FDA determines that the data from our completed Phase III clinical trial is sufficient to support approval. Additionally, the timing of the completion of the rolling NDA submission and any commercialization of picoplatin will be affected by our ability to obtain a corporate partner or otherwise obtain additional funding to support these activities. We also are conducting separate Phase I/II studies of picoplatin in the first-line treatment of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer and hormone-refractory prostate cancer (also known as "castration-resistant prostate cancer"). The Phase I/II colorectal cancer study is designed to determine the safety and efficacy of picoplatin substituted for oxaliplatin in the FOLFOX regimen (combination of chemotherapy agents 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin and oxaliplatin) to treat patients newly diagnosed with metastatic colorectal cancer. Our Phase 1/II prostate cancer study is designed to determine the safety and efficacy of picoplatin when combined with the chemotherapy agent docetaxel and prednisone in the treatment of patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer. Endpoints of these studies include safety, response, time to progression, progression-free survival and overall survival. The Phase 1/II prostate and colorectal cancer trials both have completed enrollment. We also are conducting an ongoing Phase I study of an oral formulation of picoplatin in advanced solid tumors. The actual times for initiation and completion of our current or any future picoplatin clinical trials depend upon numerous factors, including: •our ability to obtain adequate additional funding or enter into strategic partnerships; •approvals and other actions by the FDA and other regulatory agencies and the timing thereof; •our ability to open clinical sites; •our ability to recruit and enroll qualified patients into our studies; •our ability to obtain sufficient, reliable and affordable supplies of the picoplatin API and finished drug product; •the extent of competing trials at the clinical institutions where we conduct our trials; •reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations, or CROs, and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; •obtaining institutional review board, or IRB, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; 23 •our ability to assure that clinical trials are conducted in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols; •results of inspections of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, including the risk of the imposition of a clinical hold; •unforeseen safety and efficacy issues; •the extent of scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions; and •the identified endpoints of the studies, the extent of patient disease and patient performance status. We may not initiate, advance or complete our picoplatin clinical studies as projected or achieve successful results. We rely on academic institutions and CROs to conduct, supervise or monitor some or all aspects of clinical trials involving picoplatin. Further, to the extent that we now or in the future participate in collaborative arrangements in connection with the development and commercialization of our proposed products, we will have less control over the timing, planning and other aspects of our clinical trials. If we fail to initiate, advance or complete, or experience delays in or are forced to curtail our current or any future clinical trials, our stock price and our ability to conduct our business could be materially negatively affected. If testing of a particular product does not yield positive results, we will be unable to commercialize that product. Our research and development programs are designed to test the safety and efficacy of our proposed products in humans through extensive preclinical and clinical testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the testing process that could delay or prevent commercialization of picoplatin, including the following: •the safety and efficacy results obtained in early human clinical trials may not be indicative of results obtained in later clinical trials; •the results of preclinical studies may be inconclusive, or they may not be indicative of results that will be obtained in human clinical trials; •after reviewing test results, we or any potential collaborators may abandon projects that we previously believed were promising; •we, our potential collaborators or regulators may suspend or terminate clinical trials if the participating subjects or patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; and •the effects of our potential products may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or other characteristics that preclude regulatory approval or limit their commercial use if approved. Clinical testing is very expensive, can take many years, and the outcome is uncertain. The data that we may collect from our picoplatin clinical trials may not be sufficient to support regulatory approval of our proposed picoplatin product. The clinical trials of picoplatin may not be initiated or completed as planned and the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may not ultimately approve any of our product candidates for commercial sale. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of picoplatin would delay or prevent regulatory approvals, which would prevent us from marketing the product. 24 Success in early clinical trials may not be indicative of results obtained in later trials. Results of early preclinical and clinical trials are based on a limited number of patients and may, upon review, be revised or negated by authorities or by later stage clinical results. Historically, the results from preclinical testing and early clinical trials often have not been predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. A number of new drugs and therapeutics have shown promising results in initial clinical trials, but subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and effectiveness data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are subject to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. If we cannot negotiate and maintain licenses or collaborative arrangements with third parties, our development, manufacturing, sales and marketing activities may not be cost-effective or successful. Our success will depend in significant part on our ability to attract and maintain collaborative partners and strategic relationships to support the development, manufacture, sale, marketing and distribution of picoplatin. We have entered into an exclusive worldwide license, as amended, with Genzyme Corporation (successor to AnorMED, Inc.) for the development and commercial sale of picoplatin. Under that license, we are solely responsible for the development and commercialization of picoplatin. Genzyme retains the right, at our cost, to prosecute its patent applications and maintain all licensed patents. The parties executed the license agreement in April 2004, at which time we paid a one-time upfront payment of $1.0 million in common stock and $1.0 million in cash. The original agreement excluded Japan from the licensed territory and provided for $13.0 million in development and commercialization milestones, payable in cash or a combination of cash and common stock, and a royalty rate of up to 15% on product net sales after regulatory approval. The parties amended the license agreement on September 18, 2006, modifying several key financial terms and expanding the licensed territory to include Japan, thereby providing us worldwide rights. In consideration of the amendment, we paid Genzyme $5.0 million in cash on October 12, 2006 and an additional $5.0 million in cash on March 30, 2007. The amendment eliminated all development milestone payments to Genzyme. Genzyme remains entitled to receive up to $5.0 million in commercialization milestones upon the attainment of certain levels of annual net sales of picoplatin after regulatory approval. The amendment also reduced the royalty payable to Genzyme to a maximum of 9% of annual net product sales and eliminated sharing of sublicense revenues with Genzyme. We began dosing patients in the second quarter of 2007 in our single pivotal Phase III SPEAR trial under our approved SPA. We currently anticipate completing patient enrollment and commencing the rolling submission of an NDA with the FDA in 2009. We have targeted 2010 for completion of the NDA submission and, subject to FDA approval, initiation of commercial sales. However, we cannot currently predict the actual timing for completion of patient enrollment, the length of time to regulatory approval, if any, or the extent of annual sales, if any, of picoplatin and, therefore, cannot predict when or if the milestone and royalty payments under our license agreement with Genzyme may be triggered. The license agreement may be terminated by either party for breach, or if the other party files a petition in bankruptcy or insolvency or for reorganization or is dissolved, liquidated or makes assignment for the benefit of creditors. We can terminate the license at any time upon prior written notice to Genzyme. If not earlier terminated, the license agreement will continue in effect, in each country in the territory in which the licensed product is sold or manufactured, until the earlier of (i) expiration of the last valid claim of a pending or issued patent covering the licensed product in that country or (ii) a specified number of years after first commercial sale of the licensed product in that country. If Genzyme were to breach its obligations under the license, or if the license expires or is terminated and we cannot renew, replace, extend or preserve our rights under the license agreement, we would be unable to move forward with our picoplatin clinical studies and commercialization efforts. On August 4, 2005, we entered into a research funding and option agreement with The Scripps Research Institute, or TSRI. Under the agreement, as amended, we provided TSRI an aggregate of 25 $2.5 million over a 30-month period to fund research relating to synthesis and evaluation of novel small molecule, multi-targeted protein kinase inhibitors as therapeutic agents, including the treatment of cancer. We paid TSRI total funding payments of approximately $0.1 million in 2005, $1.0 million in 2006 and $1.4 million in 2007, all of which were charged to R&D expense. The amended agreement expired December 31, 2007. In connection with our option under the amended agreement to negotiate a worldwide exclusive license (including the rights to sublicense) to develop and commercialize any compounds arising from the collaboration, we executed a follow-on agreement to license compounds that were discovered by TSRI, including classes of protein kinase inhibitors for the treatment of human diseases, including cancer. Kinases regulate signaling networks and thereby control cellular properties such as proliferation, invasion, survival and differentiation. We have no assurance that the research funded under this arrangement, or any compounds arising from the collaboration, will be successful or ultimately will give rise to any viable product candidates. We are dependent on third-party suppliers for the timely delivery of materials and services and may experience future interruptions in supply. For our picoplatin product candidate to be successful, we need sufficient, reliable and affordable supplies of the picoplatin API and finished drug product. Sources of these supplies may be limited, and third-party suppliers may be unable to manufacture picoplatin API and finished drug product in amounts and at prices necessary for successful commercialization. Moreover, third-party manufacturers must continuously adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, regulations enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. If the facilities of these manufacturers cannot pass a Pre-Approval Inspection, the FDA will not approve the NDA for our proposed products. In complying with cGMP and foreign regulatory requirements, any of our third-party manufacturers will be obligated to expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality control to assure that our products meet applicable specifications and other requirements. If any of our third-party manufacturers or suppliers fails to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to regulatory action. We have limited experience in drug formulation or manufacturing, and we lack the resources and capability to manufacture picoplatin on a clinical or commercial scale. As a result, we rely on third parties to manufacture picoplatin API and finished drug product for our clinical trials and for our planned commercialization activities. The finished drug product has been demonstrated to be stable for up to 30 months from the date of manufacture, and we believe that we currently have adequate supplies of picoplatin API and finished drug product to complete our current clinical trials. We currently have separate agreements with one supplier each of picoplatin API and finished drug product for clinical and commercial use. Manufacturing services are provided on a purchase order, fixed-fee basis pursuant to separate clinical and commercial API and finished drug product supply agreements. Our API clinical supply agreement continues in effect until it is terminated by mutual agreement of the parties or by either party in accordance with its terms. Our finished drug product clinical supply agreement runs for an initial term ending December 31, 2009, and is subject to renewal for two additional one-year terms, at our option. Our commercial API and finished drug supply agreements have initial terms ending in late 2013. Additional information about these agreements, including the termination rights of the parties, can be found in the discussion entitled "Picoplatin Source of Supply" in Section 1 above. We have no assurance that our current suppliers will be able to continue to manufacture sufficient picoplatin API and finished drug product on a timely or cost-effective basis at all times in the future. The recent tightening of global credit may increase the risk of disruptions or delays of performance by our third party manufacturers and other contractors. We believe that there are other contract manufacturers with the capacity to manufacture picoplatin API and finished drug product. However, if we are required to seek out alternative manufacturers, we may incur significant additional costs and suffer delays in, or be prevented from, subject to FDA approval, initiating commercial sales of picoplatin. 26 We also rely on third-party contractors to perform for us, or assist us with, the set-up, conduct, support and management of our clinical studies. Because these contractors provide specialized services, their activities and quality of performance may be outside our direct control. If these contractors do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, do not meet expected deadlines, or need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical trial protocols or for any other reasons, we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties. If any of these circumstances were to occur, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated or may need to be repeated, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize picoplatin or the product candidate being tested in such trials, and we may be subject to regulatory action. We currently have no sales and marketing staff or distribution organization. If we are unable to develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities on our own or through collaborations with corporate partners, we may not be successful in commercializing our future products. We have limited experience in selling, marketing or distributing therapeutic drug products. To the extent we are successful in obtaining approval for the commercial sale of picoplatin, we will need to secure one or more corporate partners to conduct these activities. We may not be able to enter into partnering arrangements in a timely manner, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our net product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products, and any revenues we receive would depend upon the efforts of third parties, which efforts may not be successful. If we are not able to secure adequate partnering arrangements, we would have to hire additional employees or consultants with expertise in sales, marketing and distribution. Employees with relevant skills may not be available to us. Additionally, any increase in the number of employees would increase our expense level and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. If we are not successful in commercializing picoplatin, either on our own or through collaborations with one or more parties, our future product revenue would suffer and we would incur significant additional losses. We face substantial competition in the development of cancer therapies and may not be able to compete successfully, and our potential products may be rendered obsolete by rapid technological change. The competition for development of cancer therapies is substantial. There is intense competition from biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic research institutions, clinical reference laboratories and government agencies that are pursuing research and development activities similar to ours in the United States and abroad. Our initial focus for picoplatin is small cell lung cancer, the most aggressive and deadly form of lung cancer. Although platinum therapies are the preferred treatment, no FDA-approved therapies are available for patients with platinum-refractory or -resistant disease. If approved, picoplatin will be competing with existing treatment regimens, as well as emerging therapies for small cell lung cancer and other platinum-based therapeutics. Large pharmaceutical/biotechnology companies, including Abbott, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Baxter Healthcare, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Celgene Corporation, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co. Ltd., Eli Lilly and Company, Genentech, Inc., GlaxoSmithKline PLC, Merck & Co., Nippon Kayaku Co. Ltd., Novartis AG, Pfizer Inc., OSI Pharmaceuticals, Sanofi-Aventis Group, Shionogi & Co. Ltd. and SK Pharma, are marketing and/or developing therapeutics in late-stage clinical trials for the treatment of small cell lung cancer or platinum agents for the treatment of cancer. Multiple biotechnology companies are engaged in clinical trials for the treatment of small cell lung cancer and other platinum-based therapeutics, including Abraxis BioScience Inc., Access Pharmaceuticals Inc., Antigenics, Inc., Ascenta Therapeutics, Gemin X, GPC Biotech AG (whose merger with Agennix was announced in February 2009), ImmunoGen, Inc., Ipsen Group, Keryx Biopharmaceuticals Inc., Meabco A/S, MolMed S.p.A., Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc., PharmaMar (Zeltia Group), Proacta, Inc., Regulon, Inc., Schering-Plough, Simcere Pharmaceuticals, Sunesis Pharmaceuticals Inc., Theradex, Transave Inc., 27 Vertex Pharmaceuticals and Vion Pharmaceuticals Inc. As we expand the utility of picoplatin into other oncology indications such as prostate and colon cancers, we will be facing additional competition from major pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, research institutions and government agencies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively compete with these or future third party product development programs. Many of our existing or potential competitors have, or have access to, substantially greater financial, research and development, marketing and production resources than we do and may be better equipped than we are to develop, manufacture and market competing products. Further, our competitors may have, or may develop and introduce, new products that would render our picoplatin product candidates less competitive, uneconomical or obsolete. Even if any of our drug candidates receives regulatory approval, our drug candidates will still be subject to extensive post-marketing regulation. If we or our collaborators receive regulatory approval for our drug candidates, we will also be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory review, such as cGMP regulations and continued adverse event reporting requirements. We may also be subject to additional FDA post-marketing obligations, all of which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize such drugs. If any of our drug candidates receive U.S. regulatory approval, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses for which such drugs may be marketed or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies. In addition, regulatory agencies subject a drug, its manufacturer and the manufacturer's facilities to continual review and inspections. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a drug, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the drug is manufactured, may result in restrictions on the marketing of that drug, up to and including withdrawal of the drug from the market. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may result in: •issuance of warning letters by the FDA; •imposition of fines and other civil penalties; •criminal prosecution; •injunction, suspension or revocation of marketing approvals; •suspension of any ongoing clinical trials; •suspension of manufacturing; •delays in commercialization; •refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or our collaborators; •bans on the import or export of the drugs to or from the United States; •restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; and •product recalls or seizures. The FDA's policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of picoplatin or further restrict or regulate post-approval activities. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market picoplatin and our business could suffer. 28 If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may not be able to compete effectively, or operate profitably. Our success is dependent in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our patents and other proprietary rights and our ability to avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others. The United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO, may not issue patents from the patent applications owned by or licensed to us. If issued, the patents may not give us an advantage over competitors with similar technologies. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability and it is uncertain how much protection, if any, will be given to our patents if we attempt to enforce them and they are challenged in court or in other proceedings, such as oppositions, which may be brought in foreign jurisdictions to challenge the validity of a patent. A third party may challenge the validity or enforceability of a patent after its issuance by the USPTO. It is possible that a competitor may successfully challenge our patents or that a challenge will result in limiting their coverage. Moreover, the cost of litigation to uphold the validity of patents and to prevent infringement can be substantial. If the outcome of litigation is adverse to us, third parties may be able to use our patented invention without payment to us. Moreover, it is possible that competitors may infringe our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. We may need to file lawsuits to stop these activities. These lawsuits can be expensive and would consume time and other resources, even if we were successful in stopping the violation of our patent rights. In addition, there is a risk that a court would decide that our patents are not valid and that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of our patents was upheld, a court would refuse to stop the other party on the ground that its activities do not infringe our patents. The protection afforded by issued patents is limited in duration. With respect to picoplatin, in the United States we expect to rely primarily on US Patent Number 5,665,771 (expiring February 7, 2016), which is licensed to us by Genzyme, and additional licensed patents expiring in 2016 covering picoplatin in Europe and other countries. The FDA has designated picoplatin as an orphan drug for the treatment of small cell lung cancer under the provisions of the Orphan Drug Act, which entitles us to exclusive marketing rights for picoplatin in the United States for seven years following market approval. If approved, we may also be able to extend the term of a U.S. patent covering picoplatin under the Hatch-Waxman Act, which Act permits the extension of the term of a United States Patent on a new drug for up to a maximum of five years. In addition, the European Commission has designated picoplatin as an orphan medicinal product for the treatment of small cell lung cancer in the European Union, which entitles us to exclusive marketing rights for picoplatin in the European Union for ten years following market approval in the European Union. Additional potential avenues exist which may supplement patent protection and exclusivity for picoplatin in Europe. Under our license agreement with Genzyme, Genzyme retains the right to prosecute its patent applications and maintain all licensed patents, with us reimbursing such expenses. We have the right to sue any third party infringers of the picoplatin patents. If we do not file suit, Genzyme, in its sole discretion, has the right to sue the infringer at its expense. U.S. Patent 5,665,771 is co-owned by Genzyme and a third party, which has exclusively licensed its rights to the patent to Genzyme (as successor to AnorMED, Inc.). In addition to the intellectual property rights described above, we rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. Therefore, others may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose our technology. We may not be able to effectively protect our rights in unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. We require each of our employees, consultants and advisors to execute a confidentiality agreement at the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. However, these agreements may not provide effective protection of our information or, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure, may not provide adequate remedies. 29 The use of our technologies could potentially conflict with the rights of others. Our competitors or others may have or may acquire patent rights that they could enforce against us. In such case, we may be required to alter our products, pay licensing fees or cease activities. If our products conflict with patent rights of others, third parties could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of the affected products. If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. We may not prevail in any legal action and a required license under the patent may not be available on acceptable terms. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be better able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation because they have substantially greater resources. If there is litigation against us, we may not be able to continue our operations. If third parties file patent applications, or are issued patents claiming technology also claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings in the USPTO to determine priority of invention. We may be required to participate in interference proceedings involving our issued patents and pending applications. We may be required to cease using the technology or license rights from prevailing third parties as a result of an unfavorable outcome in an interference proceeding. A prevailing party in that case may not offer us a license on commercially acceptable terms. Product liability claims in excess of the amount of our insurance would adversely affect our financial condition. The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of picoplatin and any other proposed cancer therapy products, including past clinical and manufacturing activities in connection with our terminated skeletal targeted radiotherapy, or STR, development program, may subject us to product liability claims. We are insured against such risks up to a $10.0 million annual aggregate limit in connection with clinical trials of our products under development and intend to obtain product liability coverage in the future. However, insurance coverage may not be available to us at an acceptable cost. We may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in decreased demand for a product, injury to our reputation, withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers and loss of revenues. As a result, regardless of whether we are insured, a product liability claim or product recall may result in losses that could be material. Our past use of radioactive and other hazardous materials exposes us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, and we may incur significant additional costs to comply with environmental laws in the future. Our past research and development and manufacturing processes, as well as the manufacturing processes that may have been used by our collaborators, involved the controlled use of hazardous and radioactive materials. As a result, we are subject to foreign, federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials and wastes in connection with our use of these materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials complied with the standards prescribed by such laws and regulations, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety regulations in the future. We terminated our STR manufacturing operations in Denton, Texas in May 2005. We recorded costs associated with the closure of the Denton facility of $0.5 million in 2005 and $0.3 million in 2006. We completed the sale of the Denton facility on October 1, 2007. Our current insurance does not cover liability for the clean-up of hazardous waste materials or other environmental risks. 30 Even if we bring products to market, changes in health care reimbursement could adversely affect our ability to effectively price our products or obtain adequate reimbursement for sales of our products. Potential sales of our products may be affected by the availability of reimbursement from governments or other third parties, such as insurance companies. It is difficult to predict the reimbursement status of newly approved, novel medical products. In addition, third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. If we succeed in bringing picoplatin to market, we cannot be certain that it will be considered cost-effective and that reimbursement to the consumer will be available or will be sufficient to allow us to competitively or profitably sell this product. The levels of revenues and profitability of biotechnology companies may be affected by the continuing efforts of government and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In the United States, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental controls. It is uncertain what legislative proposals will be adopted or what actions federal, state or private payers for health care goods and services may take in response to any health care reform proposals or legislation. Even in the absence of statutory change, market forces are changing the health care sector. We cannot predict the effect health care reforms may have on the development, testing, commercialization and marketability of our picoplatin cancer therapy products. Further, to the extent that such proposals or reforms have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and profitability of other companies that are prospective collaborators, our ability to commercialize picoplatin may be adversely affected. The loss of key employees could adversely affect our operations. Caroline M. Loewy resigned as our chief financial officer effective November 28, 2008. We did not experience any material disruptions as a consequence of Ms. Loewy's resignation. Gerald McMahon, our chief executive officer, and Ronald A. Martell, our president and chief operating officer, assumed Ms. Loewy's responsibilities while we conducted a search for a new chief financial officer. Gregory L. Weaver was appointed as our chief financial officer effective February 18, 2009. On November 21, 2008, we terminated David A. Karlin, M.D., our senior vice president of clinical development and regulatory affairs. The termination was based on our determination that we no longer required the services of Dr. Karlin, and we did not experience any material disruptions as a consequence of Dr. Karlin's termination. Dr. Karlin's responsibilities have been assumed by Robert De Jager, our chief medical officer. As of March 6, 2009, we had a total workforce of 59 full-time employees and 5 part-time employees. In September 2006, we moved our corporate headquarters to newly leased facilities in South San Francisco. We intend to maintain clinical development and support activities and facilities in Seattle and do not have plans to relocate any of our 44 employees currently in Seattle. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued contributions of our principal management and scientific personnel participating in our picoplatin development and commercialization efforts. We have limited or no redundancy of personnel in key development areas, including finance, legal, clinical operations, regulatory affairs, product development, quality control and assurance. The loss of the services of one or more of our employees could delay our picoplatin product development or commercialization activities. We do not maintain key-person life insurance on any of our officers, employees or consultants. Competition for qualified employees among companies in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industry is intense. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees and consultants. In order to successfully commercialize picoplatin, we may in the 31 future be required to substantially expand our workforce, particularly in the areas of business development, sales and marketing. These activities would require the addition of new personnel and the development of additional expertise by existing personnel. We have change of control agreements and severance agreements with all of our officers and consulting agreements with several of our scientific advisors. Our agreements with our officers provide for "at will" employment, which means that each officer may terminate his or her service with us at any time. In addition, our scientific advisors may terminate their services to us at any time. Our operations might be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. Our principal executive offices are in South San Francisco, California and we maintain clinical development and support activities in Seattle, Washington. We depend on our facilities and on our collaborators, contractors and vendors for the continued operation of our business. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks, power interruptions, wildfires and other fires, actions of animal rights activists, earthquakes and wars could disrupt our operations or those of our collaborators, contractors and vendors. Even though we believe we carry commercially reasonable business interruption and liability insurance, and our contractors may carry liability insurance that protect us in certain events, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our and our contractors' insurance policies or for which we or our contractors do not have coverage. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a significant negative impact on our operations and financial results. Moreover, any such event could delay our picoplatin clinical program and commercialization efforts. Risks Relating to Our Securities Our common stock may be delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market if we are unable to maintain compliance with Nasdaq Global Market continued listing requirements. Our common stock listing was upgraded to The Nasdaq Global Market on October 1, 2007. Prior to that time, our common stock was listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. In order to continue to be included in the Nasdaq Global Market, we must meet the Nasdaq Global Market continued listing standards, including maintaining a closing bid price of $1.00 per share (the Minimum Bid Price Requirement). Our common stock has in the past, and may in the future, fall below the Minimum Bid Price Requirement, or we may in the future fail to meet other requirements for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market. If we are unable to cure any events of noncompliance in a timely or effective manner, our common stock could be delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market. If our common stock were threatened with delisting from The Nasdaq Global Market, we may, depending on the circumstances, seek to extend the period for regaining compliance with Nasdaq listing requirements by moving our common stock to the Nasdaq Capital Market. Failing that, we may seek quotation on a regional stock exchange, if available. Any such change in listing could reduce the market liquidity for our common stock. If our common stock is not eligible for quotation on another market or exchange, trading of our common stock could be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock. If our common stock were to be delisted from The Nasdaq Stock Market, and our trading price remained below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock might also become subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trade involving a stock defined as a "penny stock" (generally, any equity security not listed on a national 32 securities exchange or quoted on Nasdaq that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions). Many brokerage firms are reluctant to recommend low-priced stocks to their clients. Moreover, various regulations and policies restrict the ability of shareholders to borrow against or "margin" low-priced stocks, and declines in the stock price below certain levels may trigger unexpected margin calls. Additionally, because brokers' commissions on low-priced stocks generally represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher priced stocks, the current price of the common stock can result in an individual shareholder paying transaction costs that represent a higher percentage of total share value than would be the case if our share price were higher. This factor may also limit the willingness of institutions to purchase our common stock. Finally, the additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from facilitating trades in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the stock and the ability of investors to trade our common stock. Our stock price is volatile and, as a result, you could lose some or all of your investment. There has been a history of significant volatility in the market prices of securities of biotechnology companies, including our common stock. In 2008, the reported high and low closing sale prices of our common stock were $6.18 and $1.40. During 2007 the reported high and low closing sale prices of our common stock were $8.89 and $4.09. The reported high and low closing sale prices during the period from January 3, 2006 through September 22, 2006 (the last trading day preceding the effectiveness of our one-for-six reverse stock split) were $1.57 and $0.50. The reported high and low closing sale prices during the period from September 25, 2006 through December 31, 2006 (after the effective date of our reverse stock split) were $7.74 and $3.00. Our stock price has been and may continue to be affected by this type of market volatility, as well as our own performance. Our business and the relative price of our common stock may be influenced by a large variety of factors, including: •announcements by us or our competitors concerning acquisitions, strategic alliances, technological innovations, new commercial products or changes in product development strategies; •the availability of critical materials used in developing our proposed picoplatin product; •our ability to conduct our picoplatin clinical development program on a timely and cost-effective basis and the progress and results of our clinical trials and those of our competitors; •developments concerning potential agreements with collaborators; •the expense and time associated with, and the extent of our ultimate success in, securing regulatory approvals; •our available cash or other sources of funding; and •future sales of significant amounts of our common stock by us or our shareholders. In addition, potential public concern about the safety and efficacy of our proposed picoplatin product and any other products we develop, comments by securities analysts, our ability to maintain the listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq system, and conditions in the capital markets in general and in the life science capital market specifically, may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. The realization of any of the risks described in this report, as well as other factors, could have a material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock and may result in a loss of some or all of your investment in our securities. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against companies following periods of volatility in their stock prices. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's time and resources, which could cause our business to suffer. 33 Certain investors beneficially own significant blocks of our common stock; these large shareholders may take actions that are contrary to your interests, including selling their stock. A small number of our shareholders hold a significant amount of our outstanding stock. As of December 31, 2008, entities affiliated with Bay City Management beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 15.7% of our outstanding common stock. Two of our directors, Fred B. Craves and Carl S. Goldfischer, are managing directors of Bay City Capital LLC, an affiliate of Bay City Management, and possess capital and carry interests in the Bay City Management entities holding our shares. Entities affiliated with MPM owned an aggregate of approximately 21.9% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2008. Nicholas J. Simon III, a director of our company, is a general partner of certain of the MPM entities that hold those shares. As of December 31, 2008, entities affiliated with Deerfield Capital, L.P. and OrbiMed Capital LLC beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 9.0% and approximately 6.9% of our outstanding common stock, respectively. These shareholders may support competing transactions and have interests that are different from yours. Sales of a large number of shares of our stock by one or more of these large shareholders or other shareholders within a short period of time could adversely affect our stock price. Any future equity or debt issuances by us may have dilutive or adverse effects on our existing shareholders. We have financed our operations, and we expect to continue to finance our operations, primarily by issuing and selling our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of our common stock. In light of our need for additional financing, we may issue additional shares of common stock or convertible securities that could dilute your ownership in our company and may include terms that give new investors rights that are superior to yours. Moreover, any issuances by us of equity securities may be at or below the prevailing market price of our common stock and in any event may have a dilutive impact on your ownership interest, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may also raise additional funds through the incurrence of debt, and the holders of any debt we may issue would have rights superior to your rights in the event we are not successful and are forced to seek the protection of bankruptcy laws. Certain provisions in our articles of incorporation and Washington state law could discourage a change of control. Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 200,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 2,998,425 shares of preferred stock. With respect to preferred stock, our board has the authority to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by our shareholders. Washington law imposes restrictions on certain transactions between a corporation and significant shareholders. Chapter 23B.19 of the Washington Business Corporation Act prohibits a target corporation, with some exceptions, from engaging in particular significant business transactions with an acquiring person, which is defined as a person or group of persons that beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting securities of the target corporation, for a period of five years after the date the acquiring person first became a 10% beneficial owner of voting securities of the target corporation, unless (i) the business transaction or the acquisition of shares is approved by a majority of the members of the target corporation's board of directors prior to the time the acquiring person first became a 10% beneficial owner of the target corporation's voting securities or (ii) at or after the acquiring first person became a 10% beneficial owner of the target corporation, the business transaction is approved by a majority of the members of the target corporation's board of directors and at least 2/3 of the outstanding voting 34 shares of the target corporation (excluding shares held by the acquiring person). Prohibited business transactions include, among other things: •a merger or consolidation with, disposition of assets to, or issuance or redemption of stock to or from the acquiring person; •termination of 5% or more of the employees of the target corporation; or •receipt by the acquiring person of any disproportionate benefit as a shareholder. After the five-year period, a significant business transaction may occur if it complies with "fair price" provisions specified in the statute. A corporation may not opt out of this statute. This provision may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions that our board does not approve in advance. The provisions of our articles of incorporation and Washington law discussed above may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control of the company, even if this change would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions also may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price and may adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. In addition, these provisions could make it more difficult to replace or remove our current directors and management in the event our shareholders believe this would be in the best interests of the corporation and our shareholders. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 