Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully read the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this report before you decide to purchase our securities. In addition to the risks set forth below and elsewhere in this report, other risks and uncertainties not known to us, that are beyond our control, or that we deem to be immaterial may materially affect our business operations. Our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and future prospects and the trading price of our common stock could be harmed as a result of any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Please see “Important Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this report. Risks Related to Our Business We will require substantial additional capital to continue our business as a going concern, and our future access to capital is uncertain and additional financings may have dilutive or adverse effects on our shareholders. Taking into account our projected operating results, we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and investment securities balances, including the net proceeds from our February 2011 sales of common stock under the equity line of credit facility, will provide adequate resources to fund operations at least into the fourth quarter of 2011. However, given the uncertainties of outcomes of our strategic review process, there is no assurance that we can achieve our projected operating results. We will require substantial additional capital to support our future operations and the continued development of picoplatin. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception, and we expect to incur additional operating losses for the foreseeable future as we explore strategic options to optimize shareholder value. Our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010, contained in this report have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern, which contemplates realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business for a reasonable period following the date of such financial statements. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. The report of our independent registered public accountants issued as part of this report contains a statement expressing substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. While we are currently exploring strategic alternatives potentially available to us, including a merger with or acquisition by another company, the sale or licensing of our company assets, a partnership, or recapitalization of the company, we have no assurance that we will be able to or enter into strategic transactions and/or obtain required additional capital on a timely basis, on terms that ultimately prove favorable to us, or at all. Conditions in the capital markets in general, and in the life science capital markets specifically, may affect our potential financing sources and opportunities for strategic transactions. Uncertainty about current global conditions and the 20 current financial uncertainties affecting capital and credit markets may make it particularly difficult for us to obtain capital market financing or credit on favorable terms, if at all, or to attract potential partners or enter into other strategic relationships. Further, we have no assurance that any strategic transaction or financing would, once identified, be approved by our shareholders, if approval is required. We anticipate that any such transaction would be time-consuming and may require us to incur significant additional costs, even if not completed. We completed two restructurings in 2010 and, although we are continuously evaluating measures to reduce our costs and preserve additional capital, we may be limited in our ability to undertake meaningful cost containment measures without jeopardizing our ongoing efforts to identify and implement strategic alternatives. If we are unable to secure additional capital or enter into a strategic transaction to fund our working capital and capital expenditure requirements, we may be forced to explore liquidation alternatives, including seeking protection from creditors through the application of bankruptcy laws. In such case, our shareholders could lose some or all of their investment. The amount of additional capital we will require in the future will depend on a number of factors, including: • the terms and timing of any collaboration, licensing and other strategic transactions that we may execute; • the extent of our success in optimizing the value of our current picoplatin program and other assets; • the cost, timing and outcomes of any future picoplatin clinical studies and regulatory approvals; • the availability and cost of picoplatin API and finished drug product; • the timing and amount of any milestone or other payments we may receive from or be obligated to pay to potential collaborators or other third parties; • our degree of success in commercializing picoplatin; • the emergence of competing technologies and products, and other adverse market developments; • the acquisition or in-licensing of other products or intellectual property; and • the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights. If we raise additional funds through the public or private sale of common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock, our shareholders may experience substantial dilution, and new investors could have rights superior to current security holders. If we raise additional funds though collaborations, sales or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may be required to relinquish some rights to our technology or products candidates, grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us or enter into collaboration arrangements for product candidates at an earlier stage of development or for a lesser amount than we might otherwise choose. Our Phase 3 trial of picoplatin in small cell lung cancer failed to meet the primary endpoint of overall survival, and this could negatively impact our ability to obtain funding and enter into strategic transactions. In November 2009, based on 321 patient deaths, we announced that our pivotal Phase 3 SPEAR trial did not meet its primary endpoint of overall survival in the intent-to-treat population. The analysis showed a hazard ratio of 0.82 with a p value of 0.089 (n=321). An imbalance in the use of post-study chemotherapy was observed in favor of patients who received best supportive care alone compared to patients who received picoplatin plus supportive care. While this result is not necessarily predictive of the results that we may experience in other indications, in different patient populations and/or with modifications to trials design, it could negatively impact our ability to obtain funding for future picoplatin clinical trials and/or enter into strategic transactions. 21 We have a history of operating losses, we expect to continue to incur losses, and we may never become profitable. We have not been profitable since our formation in 1984. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $438.9 million. We had net losses of $30.1 million and $45.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These losses resulted principally from costs incurred in our research and development programs and from our general and administrative activities. To date, we have dedicated substantially all of our resources to research and development activities and have not generated any significant revenue from any product sales. We have devoted substantially all of our resources in recent years to the development of our picoplatin product candidate. We do not anticipate that picoplatin will be commercially available before 2014, if at all. We are not conducting any significant picoplatin development activities while we explore our strategic alternatives, and this may further delay the timeline for potential commercialization. We expect to incur additional operating losses and negative cash flows from operations for the foreseeable future. These losses may increase significantly as we explore strategic alternatives and if we enter into a strategic transaction. Our ability to achieve long-term profitability is dependent upon achieving successful results in clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals for our picoplatin product candidate and successfully commercializing picoplatin alone or with third parties. Our potential products must undergo rigorous clinical testing and regulatory approvals, which are costly and time consuming, and may subject us to unanticipated delays or prevent us from marketing any products. The development, manufacture and marketing of picoplatin and any other potential product candidates are subject to regulation for safety, efficacy and quality by the FDA in the United States and by comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals, including any foreign approvals, is expensive, often takes many years and can vary substantially depending on the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. We will not be able to commercialize picoplatin unless and until we obtain regulatory approvals, and consequently any delay in obtaining, or our inability to obtain, regulatory approvals could materially adversely affect our business. We have had only limited experience in filing and pursuing applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. This may impede our ability to obtain timely approvals from the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies. If we violate regulatory requirements at any stage, whether before or after marketing approval is obtained, we may be fined, forced to remove a product from the market or experience other adverse consequences, including delay of the approval of our marketing applications, which would materially harm our business and financial results. Additionally, we may not be able to obtain the labeling claims necessary or desirable for product promotion and could be required to conduct post-marketing studies on the safety or effectiveness of our products. If we or other parties identify serious side effects after any of our products are on the market, or if manufacturing or regulatory problems occur, regulatory approval may be withdrawn and reformulation of our products, additional clinical trials, changes in labeling of our products, and/or additional marketing applications may be required. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing of our proposed products outside the United States vary widely from country to country. Foreign approvals may take longer to obtain than FDA approvals and can involve additional testing. Foreign regulatory approval processes include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval processes. Also, approval of a product by the FDA does not ensure approval of the same product by the regulatory health authorities of other countries. 22 We may take longer to complete our clinical trials than we project, or we may be unable to complete them at all. We have completed a pivotal Phase 3 trial of picoplatin in the second-line treatment of patients with small cell lung cancer, which trial did not meet its primary endpoint of overall survival. We also completed Phase 2 trials evaluating picoplatin as a first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer and castration-resistant (hormone-refractory) prostate cancer and a Phase 1 study evaluating an oral formulation of picoplatin in solid tumors. These programs are described in the sections of this report under the headings entitled “Business” in Item 1A above and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Research and Development” in Item 7 below. The actual times for the initiation of any future picoplatin development activities depend upon numerous factors, including: • our ability to obtain adequate financing and/or enter into strategic transactions to support such clinical trials; • approvals and other actions by the FDA and other regulatory agencies and the timing thereof; • our ability to open clinical sites; • our ability to recruit and enroll qualified patients into our studies; • our ability to obtain sufficient, reliable and affordable supplies of the picoplatin API and finished drug product; • the extent of competing trials at the clinical institutions where we conduct our trials; • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations, or CROs, and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; • obtaining institutional review board, or IRB, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; • our ability to assure that clinical trials are conducted in accordance with regulatory requirements and our clinical protocols; • results of inspections of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, including the risk of the imposition of a clinical hold; • unforeseen safety and efficacy issues; • the extent of scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions; and • the identified endpoints of the studies, the extent of patient disease and patient performance status. We may not complete clinical studies as projected or achieve successful results. We rely on academic institutions and CROs to conduct, supervise or monitor some or all aspects of clinical trials involving picoplatin. Further, to the extent that we, in the future, participate in partnering or other collaborative arrangements in connection with the development and commercialization of picoplatin or any other proposed products, we will have less control over the timing, planning and other aspects of our clinical trials. If we fail to initiate, advance or complete, or experience delays in or are forced to curtail any future clinical trials, our stock price and our ability to conduct our business could be materially negatively affected. 23 If testing of a particular product does not yield positive results, we will be unable to commercialize that product. Our clinical program is designed to test the safety and efficacy of our picoplatin product candidate in humans. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the testing process that could delay or prevent commercialization of picoplatin, including the following: • the safety and efficacy results obtained in early human clinical trials may not be indicative of results obtained in later clinical trials; • the results of preclinical studies may be inconclusive or they may not be indicative of results that will be obtained in human clinical trials; • after reviewing test results, we or any potential collaborators may abandon projects that we previously believed were promising; • we, our potential collaborators or regulators may suspend or terminate clinical trials if the participating subjects or patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; and • the effects of our potential products may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or other characteristics that preclude regulatory approval or limit their commercial use if approved. Clinical testing is very expensive, can take many years, and the outcome is uncertain. The data that we may collect from our picoplatin clinical trials may not be sufficient to support regulatory approval of our proposed picoplatin product. The clinical trials of picoplatin may not be initiated or completed as planned and the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may not ultimately approve picoplatin for commercial sale. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of picoplatin would delay or prevent regulatory approvals, which would prevent us from marketing the product. Success in early clinical trials may not be indicative of results obtained in later trials. Results of early preclinical and clinical trials are based on a limited number of patients and may, upon review, be revised or negated by authorities or by later stage clinical results. Historically, the results from preclinical testing and early clinical trials often have not been predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. A number of new drugs and therapeutics have shown promising results in initial clinical trials, but subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and effectiveness data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are subject to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. If we cannot successfully maintain and protect our current license for the development and commercial sale of picoplatin, we would be unable to move forward with our picoplatin studies and our current business and prospects will be materially negatively affected. We have entered into an exclusive worldwide license, as amended, with Genzyme Corporation (successor to AnorMED, Inc.) for the development and commercial sale of picoplatin. Under that license, we are solely responsible for the development and commercialization of picoplatin. Genzyme retains the right, at our cost, to prosecute its patent applications and maintain all licensed patents. The parties executed the license agreement in April 2004, at which time we paid a one-time upfront payment of $1.0 million in common stock and $1.0 million in cash. The original agreement excluded Japan from the licensed territory and provided for $13.0 million in development and commercialization milestones, payable in cash or a combination of cash and common stock, and a royalty rate of up to 15% on product net sales after regulatory approval. The parties amended the license agreement on September 18, 2006, modifying several key financial terms and expanding the licensed territory to include Japan, thereby providing us worldwide rights. In consideration of the amendment, we paid Genzyme $5.0 million in cash on October 12, 2006 and an additional $5.0 million in cash on March 30, 2007. The amendment 24 eliminated all development milestone payments to Genzyme. Genzyme remains entitled to receive up to $5.0 million in commercialization milestones upon the attainment of certain levels of annual net sales of picoplatin after regulatory approval. The amendment also reduced the royalty payable to Genzyme to a maximum of 9% of annual net product sales and eliminated sharing of sublicense revenues with Genzyme. We cannot currently predict the actual timing for initiation or completion of future clinical trials, the length of time to regulatory approval, if any, or the extent of annual sales, if any, of picoplatin and, therefore, cannot predict when or if the milestone and royalty payments under our license agreement with Genzyme may be triggered. The license agreement may be terminated by either party for breach, or if the other party files a petition in bankruptcy or insolvency or for reorganization or is dissolved, liquidated or makes assignment for the benefit of creditors. We can terminate the license at any time upon prior written notice to Genzyme. If not earlier terminated, the license agreement will continue in effect, in each country in the territory in which the licensed product is sold or manufactured, until the earlier of (i) expiration of the last valid claim of a pending or issued patent covering the licensed product in that country or (ii) a specified number of years after first commercial sale of the licensed product in that country. If Genzyme were to breach its obligations under the license, or if the license expires or is terminated and we cannot renew, replace, extend or preserve our rights under the license agreement, we would be unable to move forward with our picoplatin clinical studies and commercialization efforts and our current business and prospects would be materially harmed. The successful growth of our business may depend, in part, on our ability to find collaborative partners or other third parties to assist or share in the costs of product development. The strategic alternatives that we currently are exploring include potential collaborative and other strategic arrangements with third parties. Potential third parties include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and other entities. Collaborative partners or other third parties may assist us in: • funding or performing research, preclinical development, clinical trials and manufacturing; • seeking and obtaining regulatory approvals; and • successfully commercializing picoplatin and any future product candidates. If we are unable to establish collaborative or strategic other arrangements, we may be required to undertake product development and commercialization at our own expense. Such an undertaking may limit the number of indications in which we evaluate picoplatin, significantly increase our capital requirements and place additional strain on our internal resources. Our failure to enter into collaborative or other strategic relationships could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or future prospects. Collaborative and other strategic arrangements may give rise to disputes over commercial terms, contract interpretations and ownership of our intellectual property and may adversely affect the commercial success of our potential products. Collaborative and other strategic relationships are generally complex and may give rise to disputes regarding the relative rights, obligations and revenues of the parties, including the ownership of intellectual property and associated rights and obligations. Such disputes can delay research, development or commercialization of potential products and can lead to lengthy, expensive litigation or arbitration. The terms of collaboration and other strategic arrangements may also include or preclude us from developing products or technologies developed pursuant to such arrangements. Additionally, the collaborators or other parties under these arrangements might breach the terms of their respective agreements or fail to prevent infringement of the licensed patents by third parties. Moreover, negotiated collaborative and other strategic arrangements often take considerably longer to conclude than parties initially anticipate, which could cause us to enter into less favorable agreement terms that delay or defer recovery of our development costs and reduce funding available to support key programs. 25 We may not be able to enter into collaborative or other strategic agreements on acceptable terms, which would harm our ability to develop and commercialize picoplatin and any other potential future products. Further, if we do enter into collaborative or other strategic arrangements, it is possible that our collaborative or other strategic partners would choose not to develop and commercialize our picoplatin product. Other factors relating to collaborative or other strategic relationships that may adversely affect commercial success of picoplatin or any proposed future products include: • any parallel development by a collaborative or other strategic partner of competitive technologies or products; • arrangements with collaborative or other strategic partners that limit or preclude us from developing products or technologies; • premature termination of a collaborative or other strategic agreement; or • failure by a collaborative or other strategic partner to devote sufficient resources to the development and commercialization of our proposed products. A collaborative or other strategic arrangement would not necessarily restrict our collaborative or other strategic partners from competing with us or restrict their ability to market or sell competitive products. Our potential collaborative or other strategic partners may pursue existing or other development-stage products or alternative technologies in preference to those being developed in with us. Our potential collaborative or other strategic partners may also terminate their relationships with us or otherwise decide not to proceed with development and commercialization of our products. We are dependent on third party suppliers for the timely delivery of materials and services and may experience future interruptions in supply. For picoplatin to be successful, we need sufficient, reliable and affordable supplies of picoplatin API and finished drug product. Sources of these supplies may be limited, and third party suppliers may be unable to manufacture picoplatin API and finished drug product in amounts and at prices necessary for successful commercialization. Moreover, third party manufacturers must continuously adhere to cGMP regulations enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. If the facilities of these manufacturers cannot pass a Pre-Approval Inspection, the FDA will not approve the NDA for our proposed products. In complying with cGMP and foreign regulatory requirements, any of our third party manufacturers will be obligated to expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality control to assure that our products meet applicable specifications and other requirements. If any of our third party manufacturers or suppliers fails to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to regulatory action. We have limited experience in drug formulation and manufacturing, and we lack the resources and capability to manufacture picoplatin on a clinical or commercial scale. As a result, we rely on third parties to formulate and manufacture picoplatin API and finished drug product for our clinical trials and for our proposed commercialization activities. The finished drug product has been demonstrated to be stable for up to 30 months from the date of manufacture. We entered into a picoplatin API commercial supply agreement with Heraeus in March 2008 and a finished drug product commercial supply agreement with Baxter in November 2008. Under these agreements, Heraeus and Baxter will produce picoplatin API and finished drug product, respectively, for commercial use. Manufacturing services are provided on a purchase order, fixed-fee basis, subject to certain purchase price adjustments and minimum quantity requirements. The API commercial supply agreement continues for an initial term ending December 31, 2013, and the finished drug product commercial supply agreement continues for an initial term ending November 22, 2013, in each case subject to extension. Additional information about the agreements, including the termination rights of the parties, can be found in the section entitled “Picoplatin Source of Supply” in Item 1 above. 26 We have no assurance that our current suppliers will be able to continue to formulate or manufacture sufficient commercial or clinical quantities of picoplatin API and/or finished drug product on a timely or cost-effective basis at all times in the future. The recent tightening of global credit may increase the risk of disruptions or delays of performance by our third party manufacturers and other contractors. We believe that there are other contract manufacturers with the capacity to manufacture picoplatin finished drug product and formulate picoplatin API. However, if we are required to seek out alternative manufacturers, we may incur significant additional costs and suffer delays in developing or commercializing our picoplatin product. We also rely on third party contractors to perform for us, or assist us with, the set-up, conduct, support and management of our clinical studies. Because these contractors provide specialized services, their activities and quality of performance may be outside our direct control. If these contractors do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, do not meet expected deadlines, or need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical trial protocols or for any other reasons, we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties. If any of these circumstances were to occur, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated or may need to be repeated, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for picoplatin, and we may be subject to regulatory action. We currently have no sales and marketing staff or distribution organization. If we are unable to develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities on our own or through collaborations or other relationships with corporate partners, we may not be successful in commercializing any future products. We have limited experience in selling, marketing or distributing therapeutic drug products. To the extent we are successful in obtaining approval for the commercial sale of picoplatin, we will need to secure one or more corporate partners to conduct these activities. We may not be able to enter into partnering or other arrangements in a timely manner, on terms that ultimately prove favorable to us, or at all. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our net product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products, and any revenues we receive would depend upon the efforts of third parties, which efforts may not be successful. If we are not able to secure adequate partnering or other arrangements, we would have to hire additional employees or consultants with expertise in sales, marketing and distribution. Employees with relevant skills may not be available to us. Additionally, any increase in the number of employees would increase our expenses and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. If we are not successful in commercializing picoplatin, either on our own or through collaborations with one or more parties, we will incur significant additional losses. We face substantial competition in the development of cancer therapies and may not be able to compete successfully, and our potential products may be rendered obsolete by rapid technological change. The competition for development of cancer therapies is substantial. There is intense competition from biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic research institutions, clinical reference laboratories and government agencies that are pursuing research and development activities similar to ours in the United States and abroad. We are focusing on developing registration strategies for picoplatin in colorectal, prostate, ovarian and small cell lung cancers. If approved, picoplatin will be competing with existing treatment regimens, as well as emerging therapies in these indications and other platinum-based therapeutics. Large biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including Abbott Laboratories, Amgen, Inc., AstraZeneca PLC, Baxter Healthcare, Bayer Healthcare, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Celgene Corporation, Eli Lilly and Company, Genentech, Inc., GlaxoSmithKline PLC, Merck & Co., Nippon Kayaku Co. Ltd., Novartis AG, Pfizer Inc., and Sanofi-Aventis Group are marketing and/or developing therapeutics in late-stage clinical trials for the treatment of one or more of these indications or platinum agents for the treatment of cancer. Multiple biotechnology companies are engaged in clinical trials for the treatment of one or more of these indications and other platinum-based therapeutics, including Access Pharmaceuticals Inc., Ascenta Therapeutics, Gemin X Pharmaceuticals, Inc., ImmunoGen, Inc., Ipsen Group, Meabco A/S, MolMed S.p.A., Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc., PharmaMar (Zeltia Group), Regulon, Inc., Ribosepharm GmbH, Simcere Pharmaceutical Group, Synta 27 Pharmaceuticals Corp., and Theradex Systems Inc. As we seek to expand picoplatin into other oncology indications, we will be facing additional competition from major pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, research institutions and government agencies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively compete with these or future third party product development programs. Many of our existing or potential competitors have, or have access to, substantially greater financial, research and development, marketing and production resources than we do, and are better equipped than we are to develop, manufacture and market competing products. Further, our competitors may have, or may develop and introduce, new products that would render our picoplatin product candidates less competitive, uneconomical or obsolete. Even if our picoplatin product candidate receives regulatory approval, we will still be subject to extensive post-marketing regulation. If we or our collaborators receive regulatory approval for our picoplatin product candidate, we will also be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory review, such as cGMP regulations and continued adverse event reporting requirements. We may also be subject to additional FDA post-marketing obligations, all of which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize such drug. If our picoplatin product candidate receives U.S. regulatory approval, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses for which such drug may be marketed or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies. In addition, regulatory agencies subject a drug, its manufacturer and the manufacturer’s facilities to continual review and inspections. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a drug, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the drug is manufactured, may result in restrictions on the marketing of that drug, up to and including withdrawal of the drug from the market. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may result in: • issuance of warning letters by the FDA; • imposition of fines and other civil penalties; • criminal prosecution; • injunction, suspension or revocation of marketing approvals; • suspension of any ongoing clinical trials; • suspension of manufacturing; • delays in commercialization; • refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or our collaborators; • bans on the import or export of the drugs to or from the United States; • restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; and • product recalls or seizures. The FDA’s policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of picoplatin or further restrict or regulate post-approval activities. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market picoplatin and our business could suffer. 28 If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may not be able to compete effectively or operate profitably. Our success is dependent in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our patents and other proprietary rights and our ability to avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others. The United States Patent & Trademark Office, or USPTO, may not issue patents from the patent applications owned by or licensed to us. If issued, the patents may not give us an advantage over competitors with similar technologies. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability and it is uncertain how much protection, if any, will be given to our patents if we attempt to enforce them and they are challenged in court or in other proceedings, such as oppositions, which may be brought in foreign jurisdictions to challenge the validity of a patent. A third party may challenge the validity or enforceability of a patent after its issuance by the USPTO. It is possible that a competitor may successfully challenge our patents or that a challenge will result in limiting their coverage. Moreover, the cost of litigation to uphold the validity of patents and to prevent infringement can be substantial. If the outcome of litigation is adverse to us, third parties may be able to use our patented invention without payment to us. Moreover, it is possible that competitors may infringe our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. We may need to file lawsuits to stop these activities. These lawsuits can be expensive and would consume time and other resources, even if we were successful in stopping the violation of our patent rights. In addition, there is a risk that a court would decide that our patents are not valid and that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of our patents was upheld, a court would refuse to stop the other party on the ground that its activities do not infringe our patents. The protection afforded by issued patents is limited in duration. With respect to picoplatin, in the United States we expect to rely primarily on RE41209 (the reissue of U.S. Patent No. 5,665,771, or ‘771), expiring February 7, 2016, which is licensed to us by Genzyme, and additional licensed patents expiring in 2016 covering picoplatin in Europe and other countries. The FDA has designated picoplatin as an orphan drug for the treatment of small cell lung cancer under the provisions of the Orphan Drug Act, which entitles us to exclusive marketing rights for picoplatin in the United States for seven years following market approval. If approved, we may also be able to extend the term of a U.S. patent covering picoplatin under the Hatch-Waxman Act, which permits the extension of the term of a U.S. patent on a new drug for up to a maximum of five years. In addition, the European Commission has designated picoplatin as an orphan medicinal product for the treatment of small cell lung cancer in the European Union, which entitles us to exclusive marketing rights for picoplatin in the European Union for ten years following market approval in the European Union. Additional potential avenues exist which may supplement patent protection and exclusivity for picoplatin in Europe. On May 8, 2009, patent owners, Genzyme Corporation and The Institute of Cancer Research, together with our company, filed with the USPTO, an application to reissue the ‘771 patent to the picoplatin compound. On April 6, 2010 the USPTO reissued the composition of matter patent for picoplatin as RE41209, replacing the ‘771 patent. The reissue patent includes claims specific to the picoplatin compound, its use in the treatment of any cancer, as well as claims to its pharmaceutical composition and oral dosage form. The reissue patent has the same force and effect as the original ‘771 patent and the same February 2016 expiration date, with the potential for up to a five year patent extension until 2021 under the Hatch-Waxman Act. Picoplatin is currently covered by additional issued process patents and other pending applications in the United States and abroad. Under our license agreement with Genzyme, Genzyme retains the right to prosecute its patent applications and maintain all licensed patents, with us reimbursing such expenses. We have the right to sue any third party infringers of the picoplatin patents. If we do not file suit, Genzyme, in its sole discretion, has the right to sue the infringer at its expense. REA41209 is co-owned by Genzyme and a third party, which has exclusively licensed its rights to the patent to Genzyme (as successor to AnorMED, Inc.). In addition to the intellectual property rights described above, we rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. Therefore, others may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose our technology. We may not be able to effectively protect our rights in unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. We require 29 each of our employees, consultants and advisors to execute a confidentiality agreement at the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. However, these agreements may not provide effective protection of our information or, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure, may not provide adequate remedies. The use of our technologies could potentially conflict with the rights of others. Our competitors or others may have or may acquire patent rights that they could enforce against us. In such case, we may be required to alter our products, pay licensing fees or cease activities. If our products conflict with patent rights of others, third parties could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of the affected products. If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. We may not prevail in any legal action and a required license under the patent may not be available on acceptable terms. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be better able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation because they have substantially greater resources. If there is litigation against us, we may not be able to continue our operations. If third parties file patent applications, or are issued patents claiming technology also claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings in the USPTO to determine priority of invention. We may be required to participate in interference proceedings involving our issued patents and pending applications. We may be required to cease using the technology or license rights from prevailing third parties as a result of an unfavorable outcome in an interference proceeding. A prevailing party in that case may not offer us a license on commercially acceptable terms. Product liability claims in excess of the amount of our insurance would adversely affect our financial condition. The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of picoplatin and any other proposed cancer therapy products, including past clinical and manufacturing activities in connection with our terminated skeletal targeted radiotherapy, or STR, development program, may subject us to product liability claims. We are insured against such risks up to a $10.0 million annual aggregate limit in connection with clinical trials of our products under development and intend to obtain product liability coverage in the future. However, insurance coverage may not be available to us at an acceptable cost. We may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in decreased demand for a product, injury to our reputation, withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers and loss of revenues. As a result, regardless of whether we are insured, a product liability claim or product recall may result in losses that could be material. Our past use of radioactive and other hazardous materials exposes us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, and we may incur significant additional costs to comply with environmental laws in the future. Our past research and development and manufacturing processes, as well as the manufacturing processes that may have been used by our collaborators, involved the controlled use of hazardous and radioactive materials. As a result, we are subject to foreign, federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials and wastes in connection with our use of these materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials complied with the standards prescribed by such laws and regulations, 30 we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety regulations in the future. We terminated our STR manufacturing operations in Denton, Texas in May 2005. We completed the sale of the Denton facility on October 1, 2007. Our current insurance does not cover liability for the clean-up of hazardous waste materials or other environmental risks. Changes in health care reimbursement could adversely affect our ability to effectively price our products or obtain adequate reimbursement for sales of our products. Potential sales of our products may be affected by the availability of reimbursement from governments or other third parties, such as insurance companies. It is difficult to predict the reimbursement status of newly approved, novel medical products. A government or third party payer decision not to approve pricing for, or provide adequate coverage and reimbursements of, our drugs, if any, could limit market acceptance of such drugs. In addition, third party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. If we succeed in bringing picoplatin to market, we cannot be certain that it will be considered cost-effective and that reimbursement to the consumer will be available or will be sufficient to allow us to competitively or profitably sell this product. The levels of revenues and profitability of biotechnology companies may be affected by the continuing efforts of government and third party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In the United States, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental controls. It is uncertain what legislative proposals will be adopted or what actions federal, state or private payers for health care goods and services may take in response to any health care reform proposals or legislation. Even in the absence of statutory change, market forces are changing the health care sector. We cannot predict the effect health care reforms may have on the development, testing, commercialization and marketability of our picoplatin product. To the extent that such proposals or reforms have a material adverse effect on the business and potential revenues of other companies that are potential strategic partners or collaborators, our ability to enter into strategic transactions may be adversely affected and the amount a third party may be willing to pay to license or acquire picoplatin in the future may be reduced. Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results. Generally accepted accounting principles and related pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide variety of matters that are relevant to our business, such as stock-based compensation and intangible assets, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by our management. Changes to these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by our management could significantly change our reported results. A future impairment and write down of our picoplatin intangible asset would increase our net loss, which could materially and adversely affect our financial position and the value of our common stock. As of December 31, 2010, we had a net intangible asset of approximately $6.4 million, which represents capitalized payments for our picoplatin license. In accounting for the picoplatin intangible asset, we estimate its expected useful life, the expected residual value, and the potential for impairment based on the occurrence of certain events or circumstances, including our changes in our business strategy and plans, a significant decrease in market value of our company, a significant change in asset condition, or a significant adverse change in regulatory and/or economic climate. Specifically, the value of the picoplatin intangible asset could be impaired as a result of negative results of clinical trials or adverse decisions or rulings of regulatory bodies, such as the FDA. In November 2009, we announced that our pivotal Phase 3 SPEAR trial of picoplatin in the second-line treatment of small cell lung cancer did not meet its primary endpoint of overall survival. We considered this 31 event to be a trigger for testing our picoplatin intangible asset for possible impairment; however, upon review of the expected future undiscounted net cash flows identifiable to our picoplatin license, we determined that the picoplatin intangible was recoverable and that no impairment had occurred. We continue to believe that the picoplatin intangible is recoverable as of December 31, 2010. We have no assurance that events or circumstances will not arise in the future requiring us to perform impairment testing of our picoplatin intangible asset. If an impairment is indicated as a result of future evaluations, we will be required to record an impairment charge, which would increase our reported net loss for the period in which the charge is taken and reduce our net asset value. Such events could adversely affect our financial position and the value of our common stock. If we are unable to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, our stock price and investor confidence in our company could be materially and adversely affected. We are required to maintain both disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting that are effective. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting, however well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the controls will prevent or detect misstatements. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there is only the reasonable assurance that our controls will succeed in achieving their goals under all potential future conditions. The failure of controls due to design deficiencies or the absence of adequate controls could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. The loss of key employees could adversely affect our operations. In the first half of 2010, we implemented two reductions in force to conserve capital resources. In February 2010, we reduced our workforce from 50 employees to 22 employees and in April 2010 we further reduced our workforce to 12 employees. We implemented an earlier restructuring plan, effective March 31, 2009, which resulted in the discontinuation of our preclinical research operations and reduced our workforce from 65 employees to 57 employees. As part of the February 2010 restructuring, Gerald McMahon, PhD, stepped down as our chief executive officer and Robert DeJager, M.D., stepped down as our chief medical officer. Dr. McMahon continues to serve as non-executive chairman of our board of directors. Dr. DeJager continued as a consultant to our company until December 31, 2010. We did not experience any material disruptions as a consequence of the management changes or the reductions in force. Ronald A. Martell, our former president and chief operating officer, was appointed as our new chief executive officer, and Michael S. Perry, DVM, PhD, was appointed as our new president and chief medical officer. Greg L. Weaver resigned as our chief financial officer effective August 6, 2010. We did not experience any material disruptions as a consequence of Mr. Weaver’s resignation. Michael K. Jackson was appointed as our interim chief financial officer effective August 6, 2010. As of March 23, 2011, we had seven full-time employees and one part-time employee. Of these full-time employees, two hold PhD degrees, one holds a D.V.M. degree, one holds a J.D. degree and one holds an M.B.A. degree. Of the total full-time employees, one employee is engaged in regulatory and clinical activities and six are in general administration. We consider our relations with employees to be good. None of our employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our current workforce is sufficient to effect our strategic review process and execute any identified strategic opportunities. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on our principal management continuing to contribute to and participate in our efforts to identify and complete a strategic transaction aimed at optimizing shareholder value. 32 We have no redundancy of personnel in key development areas, including finance, legal, clinical operations, regulatory affairs, strategic planning, quality control and assurance. The loss of the services of one or more of our employees could adversely affect our ability to successfully complete our ongoing efforts to explore and execute any identified strategic opportunities. We do not maintain key-person life insurance on any of our officers, employees or consultants. Competition for qualified employees among companies in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industry is intense. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees and consultants. In order to successfully develop and commercialize picoplatin, we may in the future be required to substantially expand our workforce. Our financial condition and recent workforce and expense reductions may make it difficult for us to retain current personnel and attract qualified employees and consultants in the future. We have change of control agreements and severance agreements with all of our officers and consulting agreements with several of our scientific advisors. Our agreements with our officers provide for “at will” employment, which means that each officer may terminate his or her service with us at any time. In addition, our scientific advisors may terminate their services to us at any time. Our operations might be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. Our principal executive offices are in San Francisco, California, and we maintain accounting and legal activities in Seattle, Washington. We depend on our facilities and on our collaborators, contractors and vendors for the continued operation of our business. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks, power interruptions, wildfires and other fires, actions of animal rights activists, earthquakes and wars could disrupt our operations or those of our collaborators, contractors and vendors. Even though we believe we carry commercially reasonable business interruption and liability insurance, and our contractors may carry liability insurance that protect us in certain events, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our and our contractors’ insurance policies or for which we or our contractors do not have coverage. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a significant negative impact on our operations and financial results. Moreover, any such event could delay our efforts to identify and execute any strategic opportunities. Risks Relating to Our Securities Our common stock may be delisted from The Nasdaq Stock Market if we are unable to maintain compliance with Nasdaq Capital Market continued listing requirements. We transferred the listing of our common stock from The Nasdaq Global Market to The Nasdaq Capital Market on December 17, 2010. In order to continue to be included in the Nasdaq Capital Market, we must meet the Nasdaq Capital Market continued listing standards, including maintaining a closing bid price of $1.00 per share. On June 20, 2010, we received a letter from Nasdaq stating that the minimum bid price of our common stock had been below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days and that we were not in compliance with the minimum bid price requirement for listing on The Nasdaq Global Market. We were provided an initial period of 180 calendar days, or until January 18, 2011, to regain compliance. We transferred the listing of our common stock to The Nasdaq Capital Market on December 17, 2010, at which time we were afforded the remainder of the initial compliance period. On January 19, 2011, we received a letter from Nasdaq notifying us that we have been granted an additional 180 calendar day period, or until July 18, 2011, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. The additional time period was granted based on our meeting the continued listing requirement for market value of publicly held shares and all other applicable requirements for initial listing on 33 The Nasdaq Capital Market, with the exception of the bid price requirement, and our written notice to Nasdaq of our intention to cure the deficiency during the additional compliance period by effecting a reverse stock split, if necessary. To regain compliance, the closing bid price of our common stock must meet or exceed $1.00 per share for at least ten consecutive business days during the additional time period. Nasdaq may, in its discretion, require our common stock to maintain a closing bid price of at least $1.00 for a period in excess of ten consecutive business days, but generally no more than 20 consecutive business days, before determining that we have demonstrated an ability to maintain long-term compliance. If we do not demonstrate compliance by July 18, 2011, we will receive written notification from the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Staff that our common stock will be delisted. At that time, we would have the right to appeal the determination to a Nasdaq Hearings Panel and provide a plan to regain compliance. The level of trading activity of our common stock may decline if it is no longer listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market. As such, if our common stock ceases to be listed for trading on The Nasdaq Capital Market for any reason, it may harm our stock price, increase the volatility of our stock price, lead to decreases in analyst coverage, investor demand and information available concerning trading prices and volume, or make it more difficult for investors to buy or sell shares of our common stock. Further, we may no longer qualify for exemptions from state securities registration requirements. Without an exemption from registration, we may need to file time-consuming and costly registration statements for future securities transactions and issuances and to amend our stock option and stock purchase plans. Furthermore, if our common stock is delisted, we would be required to utilize the long-form registration statement on SEC Form S-1 in order to register any future securities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, either for sale by us or for resale by investors who previously acquired securities from us in a private placement. The SEC Form S-1 requires more information than SEC Form S-3 and will take longer and be more costly to prepare and keep current than SEC Form S-3. If our common stock were to be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, we may seek quotation on a regional stock exchange, if available. Any such change in listing could reduce the market liquidity for our common stock. If our common stock is not eligible for listing on another stock exchange, trading of our common stock could be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board or interdealer quotation system, such as the OTC Bulletin Board or the OTC Market Group’s OTC Link. As a result, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock. If our common stock were to be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, and our trading price remained below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock might also become subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trade involving a stock defined as a “penny stock” (generally, any equity security not listed on a national securities exchange that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions). Many brokerage firms are reluctant to recommend low-priced stocks to their clients. Moreover, various regulations and policies restrict the ability of shareholders to borrow against or “margin” low-priced stocks, and declines in the stock price below certain levels may trigger unexpected margin calls. Additionally, because brokers’ commissions on low-priced stocks generally represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher priced stocks, the current price of the common stock can result in an individual shareholder paying transaction costs that represent a higher percentage of total share value than would be the case if our share price were higher. This factor may also limit the willingness of institutions to purchase our common stock. Finally, the additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from facilitating trades in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the stock and the ability of investors to trade our common stock. Our stock price is volatile and, as a result, you could lose some or all of your investment. There has been a history of significant volatility in the market prices of securities of biotechnology companies, including our common stock. In 2010, the reported high and low closing sale prices of our common stock were $2.61 and $0.36. During 2009, the reported high and low closing sale prices of our common stock 34 were $8.63 and $1.64. Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, affected by this type of market volatility, as well as our own performance. Our business and the relative price of our common stock may be influenced by a large variety of factors, including: • announcements regarding the sufficiency of our cash resources and our ongoing evaluation of strategic alternatives; • available sources of funding; • developments concerning our efforts to identify and implement strategic opportunities and the terms and timing of any resulting transactions; • the progress and results of our clinical trials; • our ability to identify viable and efficient registration strategies for picoplatin in various indications; • future sales of significant amounts of our common stock by us or our shareholders; • the expense and time associated with, and the extent of our ultimate success in, securing regulatory approvals; • announcements by us or our competitors concerning acquisitions, strategic alliances, technological innovations, new commercial products or changes in product development strategies; and • the availability and cost of picoplatin API and finished drug product. In addition, public concern about the potential safety and efficacy of picoplatin, comments by securities analysts, our ability to maintain the listing of our common stock on The Nasdaq Stock Market, and conditions in the capital markets in general and in the life science capital market specifically, may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. The realization of any of the risks described in this report, as well as other factors, could have a material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock and may result in a loss of some or all of your investment in our securities. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against companies following periods of volatility in their stock prices. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s time and resources, which could cause our business to suffer. Certain investors beneficially own significant blocks of our common stock; these large shareholders may take actions that are contrary to your interests, including selling their stock. A small number of our shareholders hold a significant amount of our outstanding stock. As of December 31, 2010, entities affiliated with Bay City Management beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 9.4%% of our outstanding common stock. Two of our directors, Fred B. Craves and Carl S. Goldfischer, are managing directors of Bay City Capital LLC, an affiliate of Bay City Management, and possess capital and carried interests in the Bay City Management entities holding our shares. Entities affiliated with MPM beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 13.1% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2010. Nicholas J. Simon III, a director of our company, is a general partner of certain of the MPM entities that hold those shares. As a result, these shareholders will collectively be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval of our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. These shareholders may support competing transactions and have interests that are different from yours. Sales of a large number of shares of our stock by one or more of these large shareholders or other shareholders within a short period of time, or the expectation that such sales may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. For example, certain of our officers and directors and their affiliates have established, or may in the future establish, selling plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act 35 for the purpose of effecting specified sales of our common stock over a specified period of time. If any of these events cause a large number of our shares to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital. Any future equity or debt issuances by us may have dilutive or adverse effects on our existing shareholders. We historically have financed our operations primarily by issuing and selling our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of our common stock. In light of our need for additional capital, we may issue additional shares of common stock or convertible securities that could dilute your ownership in our company and may include terms that give new investors rights that are superior to yours. Moreover, any issuances by us of equity securities may be at or below the prevailing market price of our common stock and in any event may have a dilutive impact on your ownership interest, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may also raise additional funds through the incurrence of debt, and the holders of any debt we may issue would have rights superior to your rights in the event we are not successful and are forced to seek the protection of bankruptcy laws. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future; however, holders of our outstanding Series 1 preferred stock do receive payments of dividends and have certain other rights and preferences superior to those of our common shareholders. We have paid no cash dividends on our common stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund our business operations. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock would be the sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. We had 78,768 shares of $2.4375 convertible exchangeable preferred stock, or Series 1 preferred shares, outstanding as of March 23, 2011. These shares were originally issued in 1989. Pursuant to the terms of the designation of the Series 1 preferred shares, holders of Series 1 preferred shares are entitled to receive annual dividends of $2.4375 per Series 1 preferred share outstanding. Dividends on the Series 1 preferred shares are cumulative, which means that if they are not paid, the amount of the dividends accrue and, unless full cumulative dividends on the Series 1 preferred shares have been paid, no dividends may be paid on any stock ranking junior to the Series 1 preferred shares, including the common stock. In addition, holders of our Series 1 preferred shares have certain redemption rights, liquidation preferences and voting rights that are greater than or superior to the rights of our common shareholders. These rights may decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to our common shareholders. Certain provisions in our articles of incorporation and Washington state law could discourage a change of control and may adversely affect the rights and interests of our common shareholders. Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 200,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 2,998,425 shares of preferred stock. Up to 1,120,000 preferred shares have been designated Series 1 preferred shares, 78,768 of which currently are outstanding. The remaining authorized but unissued preferred shares are presently undesignated. We currently have no plans to issue any additional shares of preferred stock. Under our articles of incorporation, our board of directors is authorized generally, without shareholder approval, to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and, in connection with the creation of each such series, to fix the number of shares of such series and designate the powers, preferences and rights of such series, including dividend rights, redemption rights, liquidation preferences, sinking fund provisions, conversion rights and voting rights, any or all of which may be greater than or superior to the rights of the common stock. 36 Washington law imposes restrictions on certain transactions between a corporation and significant shareholders. Chapter 23B.19 of the Washington Business Corporation Act prohibits a target corporation, with some exceptions, from engaging in particular significant business transactions with an acquiring person, which is defined as a person or group of persons that beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting securities of the target corporation, for a period of five years after the date the acquiring person first became a 10% beneficial owner of voting securities of the target corporation, unless (i) the business transaction or the acquisition of shares is approved by a majority of the members of the target corporation’s board of directors prior to the time the acquiring person first became a 10% beneficial owner of the target corporation’s voting securities or (ii) at or after the acquiring first person became a 10% beneficial owner of the target corporation, the business transaction is approved by a majority of the members of the target corporation’s board of directors and at least 2/3 of the outstanding voting shares of the target corporation (excluding shares held by the acquiring person). Prohibited business transactions include, among other things: • a merger or consolidation with, disposition of assets to, or issuance or redemption of stock to or from the acquiring person; • termination of 5% or more of the employees of the target corporation; or • receipt by the acquiring person of any disproportionate benefit as a shareholder. After the five-year period, a significant business transaction may occur if it complies with “fair price” provisions specified in the statute. A corporation may not opt out of this statute. This provision may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions that our board does not approve in advance. The foregoing provisions of Washington law, together with the provisions of our articles of incorporation authorizing the board, without further vote or action by the shareholders, to issue shares of preferred stock with powers, preferences and privileges fixed by the board, may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control of our company, even if this change would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions also may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price and may adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. In addition, these provisions could make it more difficult to replace or remove our current directors and management in the event our shareholders believe this would be in the best interests of the corporation and our shareholders. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 