Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock or other securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully read the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this report before you decide to purchase our common stock. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occurs, we may be unable to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial and operating results could be harmed. In addition the trading price of our common stock could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Please see "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses, we expect to continue to incur losses, and we may never become profitable. We have not been profitable since our formation in 1984. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $312.8 million. Our net loss for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $32.8 million. We had net losses of $23.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and $21.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. These losses resulted principally from costs incurred in our research and development programs and from our general and administrative activities. To date, we have been engaged only in research and development activities and have not generated any significant revenue from product sales. We do not anticipate that our picoplatin product candidate, or any other proposed products, will be commercially available before 2010, if at all. We expect to incur additional operating losses in the future. These losses may increase significantly as we expand our clinical trials and increase our research and development activities and seek to commercialize picoplatin or any future product candidates. Our ability to achieve long-term profitability is dependent upon achieving successful results in clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals for our picoplatin product candidate and any other proposed products and successfully commercializing our products alone or with third parties. We will need to raise additional capital to develop and commercialize our product candidates and fund operations, and our future access to capital is uncertain and additional financing may have dilutive or adverse effects on our shareholders. It is expensive to develop cancer therapy products and conduct clinical trials for these products. We have not generated revenue from the commercialization of any product, and we expect to continue to incur substantial net operating losses and negative cash flows from operations for the foreseeable future. On April 30, 2007, we completed a $75.0 million equity financing; however, we will require substantial additional funding to develop and commercialize picoplatin and any other proposed products and to fund our future operations. Management is continuously exploring financing alternatives, including: •raising additional capital through the public or private sale of equity or debt securities or through the establishment of credit or other funding facilities; and 15 •entering into strategic collaborations, which may include joint ventures or partnerships for product development and commercialization, merger, sale of assets or other similar transactions. We may not be able to obtain the required additional capital or enter into relationships with corporate partners on a timely basis, on favorable terms, or at all. Conditions in the capital markets in general, and in the life science capital market specifically, may affect our potential financing sources and opportunities for strategic partnering. If we raise additional funds by issuing common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock, our shareholders may experience substantial dilution, and new investors could have rights superior to current security holders. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional cash when needed, we may be forced to reduce expenses through the delay, reduction or curtailment of our picoplatin and other development and commercialization activities. The amount of additional financing we will require in the future will depend on a number of factors, including: •the scope and timing of our picoplatin clinical program and other research and development efforts, including the progress and costs of our ongoing Phase III trial of picoplatin in small cell lung cancer, our ongoing Phase I/ II trials in colorectal and prostate cancers, as well as our ongoing Phase I trial of picoplatin (oral formulation) in solid tumors; •our ability to obtain clinical supplies of picoplatin active pharmaceutical ingredient and finished drug product in a timely and cost effective manner; •actions taken by the FDA and other regulatory authorities; •the timing and amount of any milestone or other payments we might receive from or pay to potential strategic partners; •our degree of success in commercializing picoplatin or any other product candidates; •the emergence of competing technologies and products, and other adverse market developments; •the acquisition or in-licensing of other products or intellectual property; •the costs incurred in connection with the planned expansion of our workforce; •the costs of any research collaborations or strategic partnerships established; •the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and •the costs of performing our obligations under our loan with Silicon Valley Bank and Merrill Lynch Capital, including the cost of interest and other payment obligations and penalties and the cost of complying with unrestricted cash and other covenants and restrictions under the loan agreement. Our potential products must undergo rigorous clinical testing and regulatory approvals, which are costly and time consuming, and may subject us to unanticipated delays or prevent us from marketing any products. The manufacture and marketing of our picoplatin product candidate and our research and development activities are subject to regulation for safety, efficacy and quality by the FDA in the United States and by comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals, including foreign approvals, is expensive, often takes many years and can vary substantially depending on the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. We will not be able to commercialize our product candidates until we obtain regulatory approvals, and consequently any delay in obtaining, or our 16 inability to obtain, regulatory approvals could harm our business. We have had only limited experience in filing and pursuing applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. This may impede our ability to obtain timely approvals from the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies. If we violate regulatory requirements at any stage, whether before or after our marketing approval is obtained, we may be fined, forced to remove a product from the market or experience other adverse consequences, including delay of the approval of our marketing applications, which would materially harm our business and financial results. Additionally, we may not be able to obtain the labeling claims necessary or desirable for product promotion and could be required to conduct post-marketing studies on the safety or effectiveness of our products. If we or other parties identify serious side effects after any of our products are on the market, or if manufacturing or regulatory problems occur, regulatory approval may be withdrawn and reformulation of our products, additional clinical trials, changes in labeling of our products, and/or additional marketing applications may be required. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing of our proposed products outside the United States vary widely from country to country. Foreign approvals may take longer to obtain than FDA approvals and can involve additional testing. Foreign regulatory approval processes include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval processes. Also, approval of a product by the FDA does not ensure approval of the same product by the health authorities of other countries. We may take longer to complete our clinical trials than we project, or we may be unable to complete them at all. In April 2007, we initiated an international, multi-center randomized Phase III SPEAR (Study of Picoplatin Efficacy After Relapse) pivotal trial of picoplatin in small cell lung cancer. The Phase III trial, which is being conducted pursuant to an SPA with the FDA, is designed to compare the efficacy and safety of picoplatin plus best supportive care with best supportive care alone as a second-line therapy. The study is designed to enroll approximately 400 patients with small cell lung cancer whose disease did not respond to a first-line platinum-containing (cisplatin or carboplatin) chemotherapy regimen or whose disease responded initially to first-line platinum-containing therapy, but then progressed within six months after completion of treatment. Patients are being randomized on a 2:1 ratio to receive picoplatin plus best supportive care or best supportive care alone. The primary endpoint of the study is improved overall survival as measured in time from randomization to death. Secondary endpoints include response rates, disease control, duration of response and progression-free survival. We currently expect that top-line data from the study will be available in mid-2009 and anticipate filing an NDA with the FDA in 2009. However, the actual time to completion of the study, as well as the timing of the filing of an NDA, will depend on the rate of patient enrollment, survival times of all patients in the trial, as well as other factors, such as patient performance status, extent of disease and the risks and uncertainties described in this report. In May 2006, we treated our first patient in our Phase I/II study of picoplatin in the first-line treatment of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. This study is designed to determine the safety and efficacy of picoplatin substituted for oxaliplatin in the FOLFOX regimen (combination of chemotherapy agents 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin and oxaliplatin) to treat patients newly diagnosed with metastatic colorectal cancer. Also in May 2006, we enrolled our first patient in our Phase I/II trial of picoplatin in the first-line treatment of patients with hormone-refractory metastatic prostate cancer. This study is designed to determine the safety and efficacy of picoplatin when combined with the chemotherapy agent docetaxel and prednisone. We initiated patient enrollment in the Phase II component of our prostate cancer study in July 2007 and completed enrollment in December 2007. We initiated enrollment in the Phase II component of our colorectal cancer study in November 2007 and currently expect to complete patient enrollment in the first half of 2008. Endpoints of these studies 17 include safety, response, time to progression, progression-free survival and overall survival. In April 2007, we initiated a Phase I study of an oral formulation of picoplatin in advanced solid tumors. The actual times for initiation and completion of our picoplatin clinical trials depend upon numerous factors, including: •approvals and other actions by the FDA and other regulatory agencies and the timing thereof; •our ability to open clinical sites; •our ability to recruit and enroll qualified patients into our studies; •our ability to obtain sufficient, reliable and affordable supplies of the picoplatin active pharmaceutical ingredient and finished drug product; •our ability to obtain adequate additional funding or enter into strategic partnerships; •the extent of competing trials at the clinical institutions where we conduct our trials; •reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations, or CROs, and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; •obtaining institutional review board, or IRB, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; •failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols; •inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; •unforeseen safety and efficacy issues; •the extent of scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions; and •the identified endpoints of the studies, the extent of patient disease and patient performance status. We may not initiate, advance or complete our picoplatin or any other proposed clinical studies as projected or achieve successful results. We will rely on academic institutions and CROs to conduct, supervise or monitor some or all aspects of clinical trials involving picoplatin. Further, to the extent that we now or in the future participate in collaborative arrangements in connection with the development and commercialization of our proposed products, we will have less control over the timing, planning and other aspects of our clinical trials. If we fail to initiate, advance or complete, or experience delays in or are forced to curtail our current or planned clinical trials, our stock price and our ability to conduct our business could be materially negatively affected. If testing of a particular product does not yield positive results, we will be unable to commercialize that product. Our research and development programs are designed to test the safety and efficacy of our proposed products in humans through extensive preclinical and clinical testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the testing process that could delay or prevent commercialization of picoplatin or any other proposed products, including the following: •the safety and efficacy results obtained in early human clinical trials may not be indicative of results obtained in later clinical trials; 18 •the results of preclinical studies may be inconclusive, or they may not be indicative of results that will be obtained in human clinical trials; •after reviewing test results, we or any potential collaborators may abandon projects that we previously believed were promising; •we, our potential collaborators or regulators may suspend or terminate clinical trials if the participating subjects or patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; and •the effects of our potential products may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or other characteristics that preclude regulatory approval or limit their commercial use if approved. Clinical testing is very expensive, can take many years, and the outcome is uncertain. The data that we may collect from our picoplatin clinical trials may not be sufficient to support regulatory approval of our proposed picoplatin product. The clinical trials of picoplatin and any other proposed products may not be initiated or completed on schedule and the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may not ultimately approve any of our product candidates for commercial sale. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a cancer therapy product under development would delay or prevent regulatory approval of the product, which would prevent us from marketing the proposed product. Success in early clinical trials may not be indicative of results obtained in later trials. Results of early preclinical and clinical trials are based on a limited number of patients and may, upon review, be revised or negated by authorities or by later stage clinical results. Historically, the results from preclinical testing and early clinical trials often have not been predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. A number of new drugs and therapeutics have shown promising results in initial clinical trials, but subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and effectiveness data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are subject to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. If we cannot negotiate and maintain licenses or collaborative arrangements with third parties, our research, development, manufacturing, sales and marketing activities may not be cost-effective or successful. Our success will depend in significant part on our ability to attract and maintain collaborative partners and strategic relationships to support the development, manufacture, sale, marketing and distribution of picoplatin and any other future product candidates. We have entered into an exclusive worldwide license, as amended, with Genzyme Corporation (successor to AnorMED, Inc.) for the development and commercial sale of picoplatin. Under that license, we are solely responsible for the development and commercialization of picoplatin. Genzyme retains the right, at our cost, to prosecute its patent applications and maintain all licensed patents. The parties executed the license agreement in April 2004, at which time we paid a one-time upfront payment of $1.0 million in common stock and $1.0 million in cash. The original agreement excluded Japan from the licensed territory and provided for $13.0 million in development and commercialization milestones, payable in cash or a combination of cash and common stock, and a royalty rate of up to 15% on product net sales after regulatory approval. The parties amended the license agreement on September 18, 2006, modifying several key financial terms and expanding the licensed territory to include Japan, thereby providing us worldwide rights. In consideration of the amendment, we paid Genzyme $5.0 million in cash on October 12, 2006 and an additional $5.0 million in cash on March 30, 2007. The amendment eliminated all development milestone payments to Genzyme. Genzyme remains entitled to receive up to $5.0 million in commercialization milestones upon the attainment of certain levels of annual net sales of picoplatin after regulatory approval. The amendment also reduced the 19 royalty payable to Genzyme to a maximum of 9% of annual net product sales. In addition, the amendment reduced the sharing of sublicense revenues for any sublicenses entered into during the first year following the amendment, of which there were none, and eliminated the sharing of sublicense revenues with Genzyme on and after September 18, 2007. We began dosing patients in the second quarter of 2007 in our single pivotal Phase III SPEAR trial under our approved SPA. If successful, this trial will be the basis of a New Drug Application, or NDA, targeted for submission in 2009. However, because we cannot predict the length of time to regulatory approval, if any, or the extent of annual sales, if any, of picoplatin, we are unable to predict when or if the milestone and royalty payments under our license agreement with Genzyme may be triggered. The license agreement may be terminated by either party for breach, or if the other party files a petition in bankruptcy or insolvency or for reorganization or is dissolved, liquidated or makes assignment for the benefit of creditors. We can terminate the license at any time upon prior written notice to Genzyme. If not earlier terminated, the license agreement will continue in effect, in each country in the territory in which the licensed product is sold or manufactured, until the earlier of (i) expiration of the last valid claim of a pending or issued patent covering the licensed product in that country or (ii) a specified number of years after first commercial sale of the licensed product in that country. If Genzyme were to breach its obligations under the license, or if the license expires or is terminated and we cannot renew, replace, extend or preserve our rights under the license agreement, we would be unable to move forward with our current and planned picoplatin clinical studies. On August 4, 2005, we entered into a research funding and option agreement with The Scripps Research Institute, or TSRI. Under the agreement, as amended, we will provide TSRI an aggregate of $2.5 million over a 30-month period to fund research relating to synthesis and evaluation of novel small molecule, multi-targeted protein kinase inhibitors as therapeutic agents, including the treatment of cancer. We have the option to negotiate a worldwide exclusive license, including the rights to sublicense, to develop and to commercialize any compounds arising from the collaboration. The research funding was payable by us to TSRI quarterly in accordance with the agreed upon research plan and budget. We made an initial funding payment to TSRI of approximately $0.1 million, on August 8, 2005. We paid TSRI total funding payments of approximately $1.0 million in 2006 and approximately $1.4 million in 2007, all of which amounts were charged to R&D expense. We completed our funding commitment to TSRI under the research funding agreement, which ended December 31, 2007, and have reserved our option rights under the agreement. We have no assurance that the research funded under this arrangement will be successful or ultimately will give rise to any viable product candidates. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate, on acceptable terms, a license with respect to any compounds arising from the collaboration. We are dependent on third-party suppliers for the timely delivery of materials and services and may experience future interruptions in supply. For our picoplatin product candidate to be successful, we need sufficient, reliable and affordable supplies of the picoplatin active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, and finished drug product. Sources of these supplies may be limited, and third-party suppliers may be unable to manufacture picoplatin API and finished drug product in amounts and at prices necessary to successfully commercialize our picoplatin product. Moreover, third-party manufacturers must continuously adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, regulations enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. If the facilities of these manufacturers cannot pass a pre-approval plant inspection, the FDA will not grant an NDA for our proposed products. In complying with cGMP and foreign regulatory requirements, any of our third-party manufacturers will be obligated to expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality control to assure that our products meet applicable specifications and other requirements. If any of our third-party manufacturers or suppliers fails to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to regulatory action. 20 We have limited experience in drug formulation or manufacturing, and we lack the resources and capability to manufacture picoplatin or any other product candidate on a clinical or commercial scale. As a result, we rely on third parties to manufacture picoplatin API and finished drug product for our clinical trials. The drug product has been demonstrated to be stable for up to 30 months from the date of manufacture. We currently have separate agreements with one supplier each of API and finished drug product. Manufacturing services under these agreements are provided on a purchase order, fixed-fee basis. Unless earlier terminated, each agreement continues for an initial term ending December 31, 2009 and may be extended beyond the initial term upon agreement of the parties. The agreements generally provide that they may be terminated by either party if there is a material breach by the other party that remains uncured or in the event of solvency or bankruptcy of the other party. We may terminate the finished drug supply agreement at any time with one year's advance notice. We may terminate the API manufacturing agreement if there is a change in control of the manufacturer. We have no assurance that our current suppliers will be able to manufacture sufficient picoplatin API and/or finished drug product on a timely or cost-effective basis at all times in the future. If we are required to seek out alternative manufacturers, we may incur significant additional costs and suffer delays in, or be prevented from, completing or initiating our ongoing or planned clinical trials. We also rely on third-party contractors to perform for us, or assist us with, the set-up, conduct, support and management of our clinical studies. Because these contractors provide specialized services, their activities and quality of performance may be outside our direct control. If these contractors do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, do not meet expected deadlines, or need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical trial protocols or for any other reasons, we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties. If any of these circumstances were to occur, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated or may need to be repeated, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize the product candidate being tested in such trials, and we may be subject to regulatory action. We currently have no sales and marketing staff or distribution organization. If we are unable to develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities on our own or through collaborations with corporate partners, we may not be successful in commercializing our future products. We have limited experience in selling, marketing or distributing therapeutic products. To the extent we are successful in obtaining approval for the commercial sale of picoplatin or any other product candidate, we may need to secure one or more corporate partners to conduct these activities. We may not be able to enter into partnering arrangements in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products, and any revenues we receive would depend upon the efforts of third parties, which efforts may not be successful. If we are not able to secure adequate partnering arrangements, we would have to hire additional employees or consultants with expertise in sales, marketing and distribution. Employees with relevant skills may not be available to us. Additionally, any increase in the number of employees would increase our expense level and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. If we are not successful in commercializing any future products, either on our own or through collaborations with one or more parties, our future product revenue will suffer and we may incur significant additional losses. We face substantial competition in the development of cancer therapies and may not be able to compete successfully, and our potential products may be rendered obsolete by rapid technological change. The competition for development of cancer therapies is substantial. There is intense competition from biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic research institutions, clinical reference laboratories and government agencies that are pursuing research and development activities 21 similar to ours in the United States and abroad. Our initial focus for picoplatin is small cell lung cancer, the most aggressive and deadly form of lung cancer. Although platinum therapies are the preferred treatment, no FDA-approved therapies are available for patients with platinum-refractory or -resistant disease. If approved, picoplatin will be competing with existing treatment regimens, as well as emerging therapies for small cell lung cancer and other platinum-based therapeutics. Large pharmaceutical/biotechnology companies, including Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Bayer Schering Pharma AG, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co. Ltd., Nippon Kayaku Co. Ltd., Eli Lilly and Company, GlaxoSmithKline PLC, Novartis AG, Pfizer Inc., Genentech, Inc., Shionogi & Co. Ltd., SK Pharma, Celgene Corporation and Sanofi-Aventis Group, are marketing and/or developing therapeutics in late-stage clinical trials for the treatment of small cell lung cancer or platinum agents for the treatment of cancer. Multiple biotechnology companies are engaged in clinical trials for the treatment of small cell lung cancer and other platinum-based therapeutics, including Abraxis BioScience Inc., Access Pharmaceuticals Inc., Ascenta Therapeutics, GPC Biotech AG, Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc., Sunesis Pharmaceuticals Inc., Keryx Biopharmaceuticals Inc., Transave Inc., Vion Pharmaceuticals Inc., PharmaMar (Zeltia Group), ImmunoGen, Inc., Innovive Pharmaceuticals, Meabco A/S, Antigenics, Inc., Ipsen Group, MolMed S.p.A., Regulon, Inc., Simcere Pharmaceuticals and Menarini Group. As we expand the utility of picoplatin into other oncology indications such as prostate and colon cancers, we will be facing additional competition from major pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, research institutions and government agencies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively compete with these or future third party product development programs. Many of our existing or potential competitors have, or have access to, substantially greater financial, research and development, marketing and production resources than we do and may be better equipped than we are to develop, manufacture and market competing products. Further, our competitors may have, or may develop and introduce, new products that would render our picoplatin or any other proposed product candidates less competitive, uneconomical or obsolete. Even if any of our drug candidates receives regulatory approval, our drug candidates will still be subject to extensive post-marketing regulation. If we or our collaborators receive regulatory approval for our drug candidates, we will also be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory review, such as cGMP regulations and continued adverse event reporting requirements. We may also be subject to additional FDA post-marketing obligations, all of which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize such drugs. If any of our drug candidates receive U.S. regulatory approval, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses for which such drugs may be marketed or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies. In addition, regulatory agencies subject a drug, its manufacturer and the manufacturer's facilities to continual review and inspections. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a drug, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the drug is manufactured, may result in restrictions on the marketing of that drug, up to and including withdrawal of the drug from the market. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may result in: •issuance of warning letters by the FDA; •imposition of fines and other civil penalties; •criminal prosecutions; •injunctions, suspensions or revocations of marketing licenses; •suspension of any ongoing clinical trials; •suspension of manufacturing; 22 •delays in commercialization; •refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or our collaborators; •refusals to permit drugs to be imported to or exported from the United States; •restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; and •product recalls or seizures. The FDA's policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our drug candidates or further restrict or regulate post-approval activities. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market our drugs and our business could suffer. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may not be able to compete effectively, or operate profitably. Our success is dependent in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our patents and other proprietary rights and our ability to avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others. The United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO, may not issue patents from the patent applications owned by or licensed to us. If issued, the patents may not give us an advantage over competitors with similar technologies. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability and it is uncertain how much protection, if any, will be given to our patents if we attempt to enforce them and they are challenged in court or in other proceedings, such as oppositions, which may be brought in foreign jurisdictions to challenge the validity of a patent. A third party may challenge the validity or enforceability of a patent after its issuance by the USPTO. It is possible that a competitor may successfully challenge our patents or that a challenge will result in limiting their coverage. Moreover, the cost of litigation to uphold the validity of patents and to prevent infringement can be substantial. If the outcome of litigation is adverse to us, third parties may be able to use our patented invention without payment to us. Moreover, it is possible that competitors may infringe our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. We may need to file lawsuits to stop these activities. These lawsuits can be expensive and would consume time and other resources, even if we were successful in stopping the violation of our patent rights. In addition, there is a risk that a court would decide that our patents are not valid and that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of our patents was upheld, a court would refuse to stop the other party on the ground that its activities do not infringe our patents. In addition, the protection afforded by issued patents is limited in duration. With respect to picoplatin, in the United States we expect to rely primarily on US Patent Number 5,665,771 (expiring February 7, 2016), which is licensed to us by Genzyme, and additional licensed patents expiring in 2016 covering picoplatin in Europe and other countries. The FDA has also designated picoplatin as an orphan drug for the treatment of small cell lung cancer under the provisions of the Orphan Drug Act, which entitles us to exclusive marketing rights for picoplatin in the United States for seven years following market approval. If approved, we may also be able to extend the term of a U.S. patent covering picoplatin under the Hatch-Waxman Act, which Act permits the extension of the term of a United States Patent on a new drug for up to a maximum of five years. In addition, the European Commission has designated picoplatin as an orphan medicinal product for the treatment of small cell lung cancer in the European Union, which entitles us to exclusive marketing rights for picoplatin in the European Union for ten years following market approval in the European Union. Additional potential avenues exist which may supplement patent protection and exclusivity for picoplatin in Europe. 23 Under our license agreement with Genzyme, Genzyme retains the right to prosecute its patent applications and maintain all licensed patents, with us reimbursing such expenses. We have the right to sue any third party infringers of the picoplatin patents. If we do not file suit, Genzyme, in its sole discretion, has the right to sue the infringer at its expense. U.S. Patent 5,665,771 is co-owned by Genzyme and a third party, which has exclusively licensed its rights to the patent to Genzyme (as successor to AnorMED, Inc.). In addition to the intellectual property rights described above, we rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. Therefore, others may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose our technology. We may not be able to effectively protect our rights in unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. We require each of our employees, consultants and advisors to execute a confidentiality agreement at the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. However, these agreements may not provide effective protection of our information or, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure, may not provide adequate remedies. The use of our technologies could potentially conflict with the rights of others. Our competitors or others may have or may acquire patent rights that they could enforce against us. In such case, we may be required to alter our products, pay licensing fees or cease activities. If our products conflict with patent rights of others, third parties could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of the affected products. If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. We may not prevail in any legal action and a required license under the patent may not be available on acceptable terms. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be better able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation because they have substantially greater resources. If there is litigation against us, we may not be able to continue our operations. If third parties file patent applications, or are issued patents claiming technology also claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings in the USPTO to determine priority of invention. We may be required to participate in interference proceedings involving our issued patents and pending applications. We may be required to cease using the technology or license rights from prevailing third parties as a result of an unfavorable outcome in an interference proceeding. A prevailing party in that case may not offer us a license on commercially acceptable terms. In April 2003, we received $10.0 million from the sale to Boston Scientific Corporation, or BSC, of certain non-core patents and patent applications and the grant to BSC of exclusive license rights to certain non-core patents and patent applications. BSC originally asserted four such patents in two lawsuits against Johnson & Johnson, Inc., its subsidiary, Cordis Corporation, and Guidant Corporation, alleging infringement of such patents. In both lawsuits, the defendants denied infringement and asserted invalidity and unenforceability of the patents. BSC subsequently withdrew three of the patents from the litigation, including the patents that were assigned to BSC. BSC acquired Guidant in April 2006. On April 4, 2007, the court issued a summary judgment that the defendants did not infringe the patents licensed to BSC. The lawsuit is now on appeal. Although we were not a party to the lawsuits, our management and counsel have been deposed in connection with the lawsuits. It is possible that BSC, due to its lack of success with its claims, may seek damages from us, including recovery of all or a portion of the amounts it paid to us in 2003. We cannot assess the likelihood of whether such claim will be brought against us or the extent of recovery, if any, on any such claim. 24 Product liability claims in excess of the amount of our insurance would adversely affect our financial condition. The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of picoplatin and any other proposed cancer therapy products, including past clinical and manufacturing activities in connection with our terminated STR development program, may subject us to product liability claims. We are insured against such risks up to a $10.0 million annual aggregate limit in connection with clinical trials of our products under development and intend to obtain product liability coverage in the future. However, insurance coverage may not be available to us at an acceptable cost. We may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in decreased demand for a product, injury to our reputation, withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers and loss of revenues. As a result, regardless of whether we are insured, a product liability claim or product recall may result in losses that could be material. Our past use of radioactive and other hazardous materials exposes us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, and we may incur significant additional costs to comply with environmental laws in the future. Our past research and development and manufacturing processes, as well as the manufacturing processes that may have been used by our collaborators, involved the controlled use of hazardous and radioactive materials. As a result, we are subject to foreign, federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials and wastes in connection with our use of these materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials complied with the standards prescribed by such laws and regulations, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety regulations in the future. We terminated our STR manufacturing operations in Denton, Texas in May 2005. We recorded costs associated with the closure of the Denton facility of $0.5 million in 2005 and $0.3 million in 2006. We completed the sale of the Denton facility on October 1, 2007. Our current insurance does not cover liability for the clean-up of hazardous waste materials or other environmental risks. Even if we bring products to market, changes in health care reimbursement could adversely affect our ability to effectively price our products or obtain adequate reimbursement for sales of our products. Potential sales of our products may be affected by the availability of reimbursement from governments or other third parties, such as insurance companies. It is difficult to predict the reimbursement status of newly approved, novel medical products. In addition, third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. If we succeed in bringing one or more products to market, we cannot be certain that these products will be considered cost-effective and that reimbursement to the consumer will be available or will be sufficient to allow us to competitively or profitably sell our products. The levels of revenues and profitability of biotechnology companies may be affected by the continuing efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In the United States, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental controls. It is uncertain what legislative proposals will be adopted or what actions federal, state or private payors for health care goods and services may take in response to any health care reform proposals or legislation. Even in the absence of statutory change, market forces are changing the health care sector. We cannot predict the effect health care reforms may have on the development, testing, commercialization and marketability of our proposed cancer therapy products. Further, to the extent that such proposals or reforms have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition 25 and profitability of other companies that are prospective collaborators for certain of our potential products, our ability to commercialize our products under development may be adversely affected. The loss of key employees could adversely affect our operations. Alan Glassberg, M.D. resigned as our chief medical officer effective March 15, 2007. Although Dr. Glassberg was an executive officer of the company, we did not experience any material disruptions as a consequence of his resignation. Dr. Glassberg serves on our clinical advisory board and provides us consulting services. Robert De Jager, M.D., FACP, was appointed as our chief medical officer effective February 1, 2008. Ronald A. Martell, a director of our company, was appointed as our president and chief operating officer on May 7, 2007. As of March 7, 2008, we had a total workforce of 51 full-time employees and 4 part-time employees. In September 2006, we moved our corporate headquarters to newly leased facilities in South San Francisco. We intend to maintain clinical development and support activities and facilities in Seattle and do not have plans to relocate any of our 33 employees currently in Seattle. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued contributions of our principal management and scientific personnel participating in our picoplatin development program. We have limited or no redundancy of personnel in key development areas, including finance, legal, clinical operations, regulatory affairs and quality control and assurance. The loss of the services of one or more of our employees could delay our picoplatin product development activities or any other proposed programs and research and development efforts. We do not maintain key-person life insurance on any of our officers, employees or consultants. Competition for qualified employees among companies in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industry is intense. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees and consultants. In order to commercialize our proposed products successfully, we will in the future be required to substantially expand our workforce, particularly in the areas of manufacturing, clinical trials management, regulatory affairs, business development and sales and marketing. These activities will require the addition of new personnel, including management, and the development of additional expertise by existing management personnel. We have change of control agreements and severance agreements with all of our officers and consulting agreements with several of our scientific advisors. Our agreements with our officers provide for "at will" employment, which means that each officer may terminate his or her service with us at any time. In addition, our scientific advisors may terminate their services to us at any time. Our operations might be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. Our principal executive offices are in South San Francisco, California and we maintain clinical development and support activities in Seattle, Washington. We depend on our facilities and on our collaborators, contractors and vendors for the continued operation of our business. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks, power interruptions, wildfires and other fires, actions of animal rights activists, earthquakes and wars could disrupt our operations or those of our collaborators, contractors and vendors. Even though we believe we carry commercially reasonable business interruption and liability insurance, and our contractors may carry liability insurance that protect us in certain events, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our and our contractors' insurance policies or for which we or our contractors do not have coverage. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a significant negative impact on our operations and financial results. Moreover, any such event could delay our research and development programs. 26 Risks Relating to Our Securities Our common stock may be delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market if we are unable to maintain compliance with Nasdaq Global Market continued listing requirements. Our common stock listing was upgraded to The Nasdaq Global Market on October 1, 2007. Prior to that time, our common stock was listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. In order to continue to be included in the Nasdaq Global Market, we must meet the Nasdaq Global Market continued listing standards, including maintaining a closing bid price of $1.00 per share (the Minimum Bid Price Requirement). Our common stock has in the past, and may in the future, fall below the Minimum Bid Price Requirement, or we may in the future fail to meet other requirements for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market. If we are unable to cure any events of noncompliance in a timely or effective manner, our common stock could be delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market. If our common stock were threatened with delisting from The Nasdaq Global Market, we may, depending on the circumstances, seek to extend the period for regaining compliance with Nasdaq listing requirements by moving our common stock to the Nasdaq Capital Market. Failing that, we may seek quotation on a regional stock exchange, if available. Any such change in listing could reduce the market liquidity for our common stock. If our common stock is not eligible for quotation on another market or exchange, trading of our common stock could be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock. If our common stock were to be delisted from The Nasdaq Stock Market, and our trading price remained below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock might also become subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trade involving a stock defined as a "penny stock" (generally, any equity security not listed on a national securities exchange or quoted on Nasdaq that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions). Many brokerage firms are reluctant to recommend low-priced stocks to their clients. Moreover, various regulations and policies restrict the ability of shareholders to borrow against or "margin" low-priced stocks, and declines in the stock price below certain levels may trigger unexpected margin calls. Additionally, because brokers' commissions on low-priced stocks generally represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher priced stocks, the current price of the common stock can result in an individual shareholder paying transaction costs that represent a higher percentage of total share value than would be the case if our share price were higher. This factor may also limit the willingness of institutions to purchase our common stock. Finally, the additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from facilitating trades in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the stock and the ability of investors to trade our common stock. Our stock price is volatile and, as a result, you could lose some or all of your investment. There has been a history of significant volatility in the market prices of securities of biotechnology companies, including our common stock. In 2007, the reported high and low closing sale prices of our common stock were $8.89 and $4.09. The reported high and low closing sale prices during the period from January 3, 2006 through September 22, 2006 (the last trading day preceding the effectiveness of our one-for-six reverse stock split) were $1.57 and $0.50. The reported high and low closing sale prices during the period from September 25, 2006 through December 31, 2006 (after the effective date of our reverse stock split) were $7.74 and $3.00. In 2005, the reported high and low closing sale prices of our common stock were $2.34 and $0.47. Our stock price has been and may continue to be affected by this 27 type of market volatility, as well as our own performance. Our business and the relative price of our common stock may be influenced by a large variety of factors, including: •announcements by us or our competitors concerning acquisitions, strategic alliances, technological innovations, new commercial products or changes in product development strategies; •the availability of critical materials used in developing our proposed picoplatin product; •our ability to conduct our picoplatin clinical development program on a timely and cost-effective basis and the progress and results of our clinical trials and those of our competitors; •developments concerning potential agreements with collaborators; •the expense and time associated with, and the extent of our ultimate success in, securing regulatory approvals; •our available cash or other sources of funding; and •future sales of significant amounts of our common stock by us or our shareholders. In addition, potential public concern about the safety and efficacy of our proposed picoplatin product and any other products we develop, comments by securities analysts, our ability to maintain the listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq system, and conditions in the capital markets in general and in the life science capital market specifically, may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. The realization of any of the risks described in this report, as well as other factors, could have a material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock and may result in a loss of some or all of your investment in our securities. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against companies following periods of volatility in their stock prices. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's time and resources, which could cause our business to suffer. As a result of our 2006 and 2007 stock offerings, the number of shares of our common stock outstanding increased substantially and certain investors beneficially own significant blocks of our common stock; such common shares are generally available for resale in the public market. On April 26, 2006, we completed a $65.0 million equity financing pursuant to a securities purchase agreement dated as of February 1, 2006. In connection with the 2006 equity financing, we issued to a small group of institutional and other accredited investors an aggregate of 15.5 million shares of common stock at a cash purchase price of $4.20 per share. Investors in the financing also received five-year warrants to purchase an aggregate of 4.6 million shares of common stock at an exercise price of $4.62 per share. Concurrent with the closing of the 2006 equity financing, we issued an aggregate of 1.6 million shares of common stock to the holders of our Series B preferred stock upon conversion of their outstanding Series B preferred shares. At the time of closing, the placement agent for the financing also received a five-year warrant to purchase, on the same terms as the investors, 139,000 common shares. As a result of the completion of the 2006 equity financing, our outstanding common stock increased from 5.7 million shares to approximately 22.8 million shares. On April 30, 2007, we completed a $75.0 million public offering, pursuant to which we sold 11.8 million shares of our common stock at a public offering price of $6.33 per share. As a result of the completion of the public offering, our outstanding common stock increased from 22.8 million shares to approximately 34.7 million shares. Both the 2006 and 2007 stock offerings have resulted in substantial dilution to shareholders who held our common stock prior to those offerings. Entities affiliated with MPM and BCC participated as purchasers in both our 2006 equity financing and our 2007 public offering. Immediately following the closing of our 2007 public offering, MPM beneficially owned approximately 28 8.6 million shares of our common stock, or approximately 23.7% of our common shares outstanding. BCC beneficially owned approximately 5.5 million shares of our common stock, or approximately 15.5% of our common shares outstanding, immediately following the closing of the 2007 public offering. Nicholas J. Simon III, a director of our company, is a general partner of certain of the MPM entities that acquired common shares in the stock offerings. In addition, two of our directors, Fred B. Craves and Carl S. Goldfischer, are managing directors of BCC and possess capital and carry interests in the BCC entities that acquired common shares in the stock offerings. We maintain an effective registration statement with the SEC covering the resale of the 15.5 million shares of common stock issued in our 2006 equity financing and the 4.6 million shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants. Accordingly, these shares are generally available for immediate resale in the public market. In addition, the approximately 1.6 million shares of common stock issued upon conversion of the Series B preferred stock currently are available for immediate resale pursuant to a registration statement or an exemption from registration under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. All of the shares acquired by purchasers in our public offering are freely resalable in the public market. The market price of our common stock could fall as a result of such resales due to the increased number of shares available for sale in the market. Our largest shareholders may take actions that are contrary to your interests, including selling their stock. A small number of our shareholders hold a significant amount of our outstanding stock. These shareholders may support competing transactions and have interests that are different from yours. Sales of a large number of shares of our stock by these large shareholders or other shareholders within a short period of time could adversely affect our stock price. Any future equity or debt issuances by us may have dilutive or adverse effects on our existing shareholders. We have financed our operations, and we expect to continue to finance our operations, primarily by issuing and selling our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of our common stock. In light of our need for additional financing, we may issue additional shares of common stock or convertible securities that could dilute your ownership in our company and may include terms that give new investors rights that are superior to yours. Moreover, any issuances by us of equity securities may be at or below the prevailing market price of our common stock and in any event may have a dilutive impact on your ownership interest, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may also raise additional funds through the incurrence of debt, and the holders of any debt we may issue would have rights superior to your rights in the event we are not successful and are forced to seek the protection of bankruptcy laws. Certain provisions in our articles of incorporation and Washington state law could discourage a change of control. Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 200,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 2,998,425 shares of preferred stock. With respect to preferred stock, our board has the authority to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by our shareholders. Our shareholder rights plan adopted on April 10, 1996, and the preferred stock purchase rights issued to each common shareholder thereunder, expired on April 10, 2006. Washington law imposes restrictions on certain transactions between a corporation and significant shareholders. Chapter 23B.19 of the Washington Business Corporation Act prohibits a target corporation, with some exceptions, from engaging in particular significant business transactions with an acquiring person, which is defined as a person or group of persons that beneficially owns 10% or more 29 of the voting securities of the target corporation, for a period of five years after the date the acquiring person first became a 10% beneficial owner of voting securities of the target corporation, unless (i) the business transaction or the acquisition of shares is approved by a majority of the members of the target corporation's board of directors prior to the time the acquiring person first became a 10% beneficial owner of the target corporation's voting securities or (ii) at or after the acquiring first person became a 10% beneficial owner of the target corporation, the business transaction is approved by a majority of the members of the target corporation's board of directors and at least 2/3 of the outstanding voting shares of the target corporation (excluding shares held by the acquiring person). Prohibited business transactions include, among other things: •a merger or consolidation with, disposition of assets to, or issuance or redemption of stock to or from the acquiring person; •termination of 5% or more of the employees of the target corporation; or •receipt by the acquiring person of any disproportionate benefit as a shareholder. After the five-year period, a significant business transaction may occur if it complies with "fair price" provisions specified in the statute. A corporation may not opt out of this statute. This provision may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions that our board does not approve in advance. The provisions of our articles of incorporation and Washington law discussed above may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control of the company, even if this change would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions also may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price and may adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. In addition, these provisions could make it more difficult to replace or remove our current directors and management in the event our shareholders believe this would be in the best interests of the corporation and our shareholders. WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION We file annual, quarterly and current reports, as well as registration and proxy statements and other information, with the SEC. These documents may be read and copied at the SEC's public reference rooms in Washington, DC, New York, NY and Chicago IL. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms. Our SEC filings also are available to the public at the Internet web site maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. Our reports filed with the SEC after January 1, 2003, also are available on our web site, www.poniard.com. The information contained in our web site does not constitute part of, nor is it incorporated by reference into, this report. We will provide paper copies of our SEC filings free of charge upon request. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 