Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this report, the following factors could affect our actual results and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those achieved in the past or expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to obtain shareholder approval and otherwise complete the proposed $65 million equity financing on or before May 31, 2006, we may be forced to explore liquidation strategies. On February 1, 2006, we entered into a definitive agreement with institutional and other accredited investors for a $65 million private placement of newly issued shares of our common stock and the concurrent issuance of warrants for the purchase of additional shares of common stock. The closing of the proposed equity financing, including the issuance of the securities and the receipt of proceeds, is subject to shareholder approval in accordance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rules, as well as to satisfaction of customary and other conditions of closing, including shareholder approval of an amendment to our articles of incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock in order to provide for a sufficient number of shares to complete the financing. A special meeting of shareholders to vote on these matters is scheduled to be held on April 11, 2006. If the proposed equity financing is completed, we intend to use the net proceeds to continue to support and expand the clinical development of 10 picoplatin and pursue our on-going goal of building a diverse oncology pipeline of products to provide new treatments for cancer patients. A portion of the proceeds will also be used to retire our outstanding indebtedness to Texas State Bank and for general working capital. In connection with the proposed equity financing, we executed a note and warrant purchase agreement dated as of February 1, 2006, pursuant to which we issued convertible promissory notes in favor of the investors in return for a short-term bridge loan in the aggregate principal amount of $3.46 million. In addition to the bridge notes, we issued the investors five-year warrants to purchase an aggregate of approximately 2.5 million shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.77 per share. The proceeds of the bridge loan will be used to fund our operations while we seek shareholder approvals relating to the proposed equity financing. As a condition to the closing of the bridge loan, we entered into a letter agreement dated January 30, 2006 with Texas State Bank extending the original term of the October 2005 forbearance letter agreement between the Bank and us to June 5, 2006, and changing the maturity date of our promissory note with the Bank to June 5, 2006. The outstanding balance of the Bank note at February 17, 2006 was approximately $2.8 million. Our total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, net of restricted cash of $1.0 million, was $3.5 million at December 31, 2005. With the proceeds from the bridge loan, we had total cash and marketable securities of $4.7 million at February 17, 2006. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalent balances, including the proceeds of the bridge loan, will provide adequate resources to fund operations at least until May 31, 2006. If we do not receive required shareholder approvals in connection with the proposed equity financing and complete the proposed equity financing in a timely manner, we will not have funds to repay the bridge notes and the Bank note when they become due and payable or to fund our continuing operations. In such case, there is a substantial likelihood that we will be forced to explore liquidation alternatives, including seeking protection from creditors under the bankruptcy laws. We have a history of operating losses, we expect to continue to incur losses, and we may never become profitable. We have not been profitable since our formation in 1984. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $255.8 million. Our net loss for the quarter ended December 31, 2005 was $4.0 million. We had net losses of $21.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, and $19.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. These losses resulted principally from costs incurred in our research and development programs and from our general and administrative activities. To date, we have been engaged only in research and development activities and have not generated any significant revenues from product sales. In May 2005, we announced the discontinuation of our STR (bone-targeted radiotherapeutic) development program as part of a strategic plan to refocus our limited resources on the development of picoplatin (NX 473), a platinum-based cancer therapy. We do not anticipate that our picoplatin product candidate, or any other proposed products, will be commercially available for several years, if at all. We expect to incur additional operating losses in the future. These losses may increase significantly if we expand clinical development, manufacturing and commercialization efforts. Our ability to achieve long-term profitability is dependent upon obtaining regulatory approvals for our picoplatin product candidate and any other proposed products and successfully commercializing our products alone or with third parties. We will need to raise additional capital to develop and commercialize our product candidates and fund operations, and our future access to capital is uncertain. It is expensive to develop cancer therapy products and conduct clinical trials for these products. We have not generated revenue from the commercialization of any product, and we expect to continue to incur substantial net operating losses and negative cash flows from operations for the future. Although there can be no assurance, assuming that we complete the proposed $65 million equity financing described above and in Item 7 below in the section entitled “Proposed Equity Financing”, we will require substantial additional funding to develop and commercialize picoplatin and any other proposed products and to fund our future operations. Management is continuously exploring financing alternatives, including: • raising additional capital through the public or private sale of equity or debt securities or through the establishment of credit or other funding facilities; and 11 • entering into strategic collaborations, which may include joint ventures or partnerships for product development and commercialization, merger, sale of assets or other similar transactions. We may not be able to obtain the required additional capital or enter into relationships with corporate partners on a timely basis, on favorable terms, or at all. The report of our independent registered public accountants issued in connection with our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 contains a statement expressing substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Conditions in the capital markets in general, and the life science capital market specifically, may affect our potential financing sources and opportunities for strategic partnering. If we raise additional funds by issuing common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock, our shareholders may experience substantial dilution, and new investors could have rights superior to current security holders. If the proposed $65 million equity financing is completed but we are thereafter unable to obtain sufficient additional cash when needed, we may be forced to reduce expenses though the delay, reduction or curtailment of our picoplatin and other development and commercialization activities. If the proposed equity financing is completed, the amount of additional financing we will require in the future will depend on a number of factors, including: • the scope and timing of our picoplatin clinical program and other research and development efforts, including the progress and costs of our Phase II trial of picoplatin in small cell lung cancer; • our ability to obtain clinical supplies of picoplatin drug product in a timely and cost effective manner; • actions taken by the FDA and other regulatory authorities; • the timing and proceeds from any sale of the Denton facility and assets; • our alternatives with respect to the STR assets, including any potential disposition or outlicensing alternatives and the timing, amount and type of any consideration received and other terms of any such transactions; • the timing and amount of any milestone or other payments we might receive from or pay to potential strategic partners; • our degree of success in commercializing picoplatin or any other cancer therapy product candidates; • the emergence of competing technologies and products, and other adverse market developments; • the acquisition or in-licensing of other products or intellectual property, if we choose to undertake such activities; • the costs of any research collaborations or strategic partnerships established, if we chooses to pursue such activities; and • the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights. We have net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $138 million, which expire from 2006 through 2025. If the proposed equity financing is completed, a change of control would occur that may limit our ability to utilize these net operating loss carryforwards. If such limitation occurs, we may incur higher tax expense, which also would affect our capital requirements. Our potential products must undergo rigorous clinical testing and regulatory approvals, which could be costly, time consuming, and subject us to unanticipated delays or prevent us from marketing any products. The manufacture and marketing of our picoplatin product candidate and our research and development activities are subject to regulation for safety, efficacy and quality by the FDA in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. 12 The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals, including foreign approvals, is expensive, often takes many years and can vary substantially depending on the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. We have had only limited experience in filing and pursuing applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. This may impede our ability to obtain timely approvals from the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies. We will not be able to commercialize our product candidates until we obtain regulatory approval, and consequently any delay in obtaining, or inability to obtain, regulatory approval could harm our business. If we violate regulatory requirements at any stage, whether before or after marketing approval is obtained, we may be fined, forced to remove a product from the market or experience other adverse consequences, including delay, which could materially harm our financial results. Additionally, we may not be able to obtain the labeling claims necessary or desirable for product promotion. In addition, if we or other parties identify serious side effects after any of our products are on the market, or if manufacturing problems occur, regulatory approval may be withdrawn and reformulation of our products, additional clinical trials, changes in labeling of our products, and/or additional marketing applications may be required. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing of our proposed products outside the United States vary widely from country to country. Foreign approvals may take longer to obtain than FDA approvals and can involve additional testing. Foreign regulatory approval processes include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval processes. Also, approval of a product by the FDA does not ensure approval of the same product by the health authorities of other countries. We may take longer to complete our clinical trials than we project, or we may be unable to complete them at all. In June 2005, we initiated a Phase II clinical trial of picoplatin for the treatment of patients with small cell lung cancer and enrolled our first patient in July 2005. This trial is a randomized trial comparing picoplatin to topotecan in patients with small cell lung cancer who are refractory or resistant to previous platinum-based therapy. Topotecan is an anti-tumor drug currently approved by the FDA as a treatment for small cell lung cancer sensitive disease after failure of first line chemotherapy. The endpoints of the picoplatin trial include survival, response rate (tumor shrinkage), duration of response and time to progression. We amended our Phase II clinical trial protocol in January 2006 from a two-arm study of picoplatin versus topotecan to a single arm study of picoplatin. We discontinued the topotecan arm of the study because patients and investigators often were unwilling to accept the topotecan arm of the two-arm study. The rationale for the amendment was that the dose and schedule of topotecan approved for use in patients with platinum-sensitive small cell lung cancer have minimal, if any, efficacy in patients with resistant or refractory small cell lung cancer and unacceptable toxicity, thus presenting a situation in which an ineffective but toxic treatment regimen was to be used as one arm of the randomized Phase II trial. We also plan to undertake a Phase I/II trial of picoplatin in colorectal cancer. The proposed trial would evaluate increasing doses of picoplatin in combination with the chemotherapy agents 5-fluorouracil and leucovorin in patients who have failed a 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin chemotherapy regimen. Endpoints would include safety, response rate (tumor shrinkage), duration of response and time to progression. This proposed trial currently is targeted to begin in the first half of 2006. The actual time for initiation and completion of our picoplatin clinical trials depend upon numerous factors, including: • our ability to close the proposed $65 million equity financing described in Item 7 below under the heading “Proposed Equity Financing”; • our ability to obtain adequate additional funding or enter into strategic partnerships; • approvals and other actions by the FDA and other regulatory agencies and the timing thereof; • our ability to open clinical sites; 13 • our ability to enroll qualified patients into our studies; • our ability to obtain sufficient, reliable and affordable supplies of the picoplatin drug product; • the extent of competing trials at the clinical institutions where we conduct our trials; and • the extent of scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions. We may not initiate, advance or complete our picoplatin or any other proposed clinical studies as projected or achieve successful results. We will rely on academic institutions and clinical research organizations to conduct, supervise or monitor some or all aspects of clinical trials involving picoplatin. Further, to the extent that we now or in the future participate in collaborative arrangements in connection with the development and commercialization of our proposed products, we will have less control over the timing, planning and other aspects of our clinical trials. If we fail to initiate, advance or complete, or experience delays in or are forced to curtail our current or planned clinical trials, our stock price and our ability to conduct our business could be materially negatively affected. If testing of a particular product does not yield successful results, we will be unable to commercialize that product. Our research and development programs are designed to test the safety and efficacy of our proposed products in humans through extensive preclinical and clinical testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the testing process that could delay or prevent commercialization of picoplatin or any other proposed products, including the following: • the safety and efficacy results obtained in early human clinical trials may not be indicative of results obtained in later clinical trials; • the results of preclinical studies may be inconclusive, or they may not be indicative of results that will be obtained in human clinical trials; • after reviewing test results, we or any potential collaborators may abandon projects that we previously believed were promising; • our potential collaborators or regulators may suspend or terminate clinical trials if the participating subjects or patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; and • the effects of our potential products may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or other characteristics that preclude regulatory approval or limit their commercial use if approved. Clinical testing is very expensive, can take many years, and the outcome is uncertain. The data that we may collect from our picoplatin clinical trials may not be sufficient to support regulatory approval of our proposed picoplatin product. The clinical trials of picoplatin and any other proposed products may not be initiated or completed on schedule, and the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may not ultimately approve any of our product candidates for commercial sale. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a cancer therapy product under development would delay or prevent regulatory approval of the product, which would prevent us from marketing the proposed product. Success in early clinical trials may not be indicative of results obtained in later trials. Results of early preclinical and clinical trials are based on a limited number of patients and may, upon review, be revised or negated by authorities or by later stage clinical results. Historically, the results from preclinical testing and early clinical trials often have not been predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. A number of new drugs and therapeutics have shown promising results in initial clinical trials, but subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and effectiveness data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are subject to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. 14 We are dependent on suppliers for the timely delivery of materials and services and may experience future interruptions in supply. For our picoplatin product candidate to be successful, we need sufficient, reliable and affordable supplies of the picoplatin drug product. Sources of picoplatin drug product may be limited, and third-party suppliers of picoplatin drug product may be unable to manufacture drug product in amounts and at prices necessary to successfully commercialize our picoplatin product. Moreover, third-party manufacturers must continuously adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. If the facilities of these manufacturers cannot pass a pre-approval plant inspection, the FDA will not grant a New Drug Application (NDA) for our proposed products. In complying with cGMP and foreign regulatory requirements, any of our third-party manufacturers will be obligated to expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality control to assure that our products meet applicable specifications and other requirements. If any of our third-party manufacturers fails to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to regulatory action. We have a limited supply of picoplatin drug product that was manufactured by a prior licensee in September 2004 and earlier. The drug product has been demonstrated to be stable for 18 to 24 months from the date of manufacture, which time period is not sufficient to complete our current and proposed clinical trials of picoplatin. We have entered into an agreement with Hyaluron, Inc. to manufacture and supply additional picoplatin drug product on a purchase order, fixed fee basis. The agreement will continue until April 15, 2010, subject to earlier termination by either party in the event of an uncured material breach or the liquidation or bankruptcy of the other party. We may terminate the agreement if we decide to no longer pursue manufacturing or distribution of picoplatin. There is no assurance that Hyaluron will be able to provide sufficient supplies of picoplatin drug product on a timely or cost-effective basis. There are in general relatively few manufacturers and suppliers of picoplatin drug product. If Hyaluron or an alternate manufacturer is unable or unwilling to manufacture and provide drug product at a cost and on other terms acceptable to us, we may suffer delays in, or be prevented from, initiating or completing our clinical trials of picoplatin. In connection with our product development activities, we rely on third-party contractors to perform for us, or assist us with, certain specialized services, including drug manufacture and supply, dispensing, distribution and shipping, and clinical trial management. Because these contractors provide specialized services, their activities and quality of performance may be outside our direct control. If these contractors do not perform their obligations in a timely manner, or if we encounter difficulties with the quality of services we receive from these contractors, we may incur additional costs and delays in product development activities, which could have a material negative effect on our business. If the $65 million proposed equity financing is not completed in a timely manner, or at all, we will be unable to pay our current debt obligations when they become due. In connection with our 2001 purchase of the radiopharmaceutical manufacturing plant and other assets located in Denton, Texas, we assumed $6.0 million principal amount of restructured debt held by Texas State Bank, McAllen, Texas. The loan, which matures in June 2006, is secured by the assets acquired in the transaction. The interest rate on the loan was 7.25% on December 31, 2005. The interest rate, which is equal to the bank prime rate and is adjusted on the same date that the bank prime rate changes as reported in the Wall Street Journal, was 7.50% on February 17, 2006. The loan provides for a maximum annual interest rate of 18%. Principal and interest are payable in monthly installments. Principal and interest paid on the note during the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 totaled $601,000 and $486,000, respectively. The fixed monthly payments on the note are recalculated in April of each year based on the then current bank prime interest rate and outstanding note balance. Based on an interest rate of 7.25% (effective December 31, 2005) and taking into account the early payment of $1.0 million in principal under the arrangement described below, the estimated principal balance payable at maturity would be $2.7 million. The terms of the Texas State Bank loan provide that an event of default may be deemed to occur if we abandon, vacate or discontinue operations on a substantial portion of the Denton facility or there is a material adverse change in our financial condition, results of operations, business or properties. If this were to occur, Texas State Bank could declare the entire amount of the loan ($2.8 million at February 17, 2006) due and immediately payable. In such case, our cash resources and assets could be impaired depending on our ability to raise funds through a sale of the Denton facility or other means. As a result of the restructuring and the decision to discontinue its STR development program, we have ceased 15 manufacturing operations at the Denton facility and are actively working to sell the facility and other STR assets. We have listed the Denton facility for sale at a price of $3.3 million. Any sales of the Denton facility or other Denton assets are subject to approval of the Bank. As of December 31, 2005, we received aggregate proceeds of $115,000 from the sale of equipment and other assets. These proceeds were applied to the outstanding principal balance of the loan. There can be no assurance that the Bank will approve the price or other terms of any offer received by us to buy the Denton facility or other STR assets, or that the sale proceeds, if any, received by us from such sales will be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding balance of the Bank loan. In October 2005, we placed $1.0 million in cash in a restricted deposit account with the Bank as additional collateral to secure the payment of the loan. We further agreed that if we were unable to obtain at least $15.0 million in new financing on or before January 31, 2006, the Bank may apply the $1.0 million cash deposit to the payment of the last maturing installments on the loan. In return, the Bank agreed that our cessation of operations at the Denton facility will not be declared an event of default under the loan as long as we continue to pay insurance and taxes on and otherwise maintain the facility. Additionally, the Bank agreed, prior to January 31, 2006, not to declare the loan in default on the basis that there has been a material adverse change in our financial condition, results of operations, business or properties. In connection with the bridge loan from investors described in the paragraph below, the Bank agreed to continue its October 2005 forbearance until June 5, 2006, in return for our agreement to change the maturity date of the note from April 17, 2009 to June 5, 2006. Pursuant to our October 2005 agreement, the Bank, as of January 31, 2005, applied the $1.0 million cash collateral and all interest accrued thereon to the outstanding balance of the Bank note. The outstanding balance of the Bank note at February 17, 2006 was approximately $2.8 million. In contemplation of the proposed financing transaction described in Item 7 below under the heading “Proposed Financing Transaction,” on February 1, 2006, we executed convertible promissory notes in the aggregate principal amount of $3.46 million. In addition to these bridge notes, we issued five-year bridge warrants to purchase an aggregate of approximately 2.5 million shares of common stock at an exercise price of $0.77 per share. The bridge notes have an interest rate of 8% per annum and, at the closing of the proposed $65 million equity financing (if such occurs), automatically would convert into approximately 4.9 million shares of common stock. The bridge notes, which are secured by a first lien on certain of our assets, will mature on the earliest of (i) May 31, 2006, (ii) the closing of the proposed equity financing, and (iii) the written election of the holders of 60% in interest of the principal amount of the bridge notes following an event of default under the terms of the bridge notes. At maturity, the bridge notes may be converted into shares of common stock at the election of the holders, subject to certain limitations. If the holders do not elect such voluntary conversion, the principal balance and all accrued and unpaid interest under the bridge notes will, after the maturity date, bear interest at an increased rate of 13% from and after the date of default to the date of payment in full of such unpaid amount. We can provide no assurance that our shareholders will approve the proposed $65 million equity financing and that we will be able to satisfy the other conditions for closing of the proposed equity financing on a timely basis, or at all. If we do not receive required shareholder approvals and complete the proposed equity financing, we will not have funds to repay the bridge notes and the Bank note when they become due and payable. In such case, there is a substantial likelihood that we will be forced to explore liquidation alternatives, including seeking protection from creditors under the bankruptcy laws. If we cannot negotiate and maintain collaborative arrangements with third parties, our research, development, manufacturing, sales and marketing activities may not be cost-effective or successful. Our success will depend in significant part on our ability to attract and maintain collaborative partners and strategic relationships to support the development, sale, marketing, distribution and manufacture of picoplatin and any other future product candidates and technologies in the US and Europe. At present, our only material collaborative agreement is the exclusive worldwide (except Japan) license granted to us by AnorMED, Inc. for the development and commercial sale of picoplatin. Under that license, we are solely responsible for the development and commercialization of picoplatin. AnorMED retains the right, at our cost, to prosecute patent applications and maintain all patents. The parties executed the license agreement in April 2004, at which time we paid AnorMED a one-time upfront milestone payment of $1.0 million in NeoRx common stock and $1.0 million in cash. The agreement also provides for additional milestone payments to AnorMED of up to $13.0 million, payable in cash or a combination of cash and NeoRx common stock. These milestones include our successful completion of a picoplatin Phase II study or initiation of a picoplatin Phase III study, submission to the FDA of a New Drug 16 Application (NDA) for picoplatin, regulatory approval from the FDA of picoplatin and the attainment of certain levels of annual net sales of picoplatin. Upon regulatory approval, AnorMED also would receive royalty payments of up to 15% on product sales. We cannot be certain of the extent of our success, if any, in commercializing picoplatin and attaining established milestones. We initiated our first picoplatin trial, a Phase II study of picoplatin in small cell lung cancer, in June 2005, and it is unlikely that these milestones will be triggered during 2006. Because we cannot predict the length of time to complete our Phase II study, the time of initiation and completion of a Phase III study or the time of submission of an NDA for picoplatin, we are unable to predict when such milestones may be triggered after 2006. Because we cannot predict the length of time to completion of our Phase II study, the time of initiation and completion of a Phase III study or the time of submission of an NDA for picoplatin, we are unable to predict when such milestones might be triggered after 2006. The license agreement may be terminated by either party for breach if the other party files a petition in bankruptcy or insolvency or for reorganization or is dissolved, liquidated or makes assignment for the benefit of creditors. We can terminate the license at any time upon prior written notice to AnorMED. If not earlier terminated, the license agreement will continue in effect, in each country in the territory in which the licensed product is sold or manufactured, until the earlier of (i) expiration of the last valid claim of a pending or issued patent covering the licensed product in that country or (ii) a specified number of years after first commercial sale of the licensed product in that country. If AnorMED were to breach its obligations under the license, or if the license expires or is terminated and we cannot renew, replace, extend or preserve our rights under the license agreement, we would be unable to move forward with our current and planned picoplatin clinical studies. On August 4, 2005, we entered into a research funding and option agreement with The Scripps Research Institute (TSRI). This collaboration is still at very early stage. Under the agreement, we will provide TSRI an aggregate of $2.5 million over a 26-month period to fund research relating to synthesis and evaluation of novel small molecule, multi-targeted protein kinase inhibitors as therapeutic agents, including for the treatment of cancer. We have the option to negotiate a worldwide exclusive license to use, enhance and develop any compounds arising from the collaboration. The research funding is payable by us to TSRI quarterly in accordance with a negotiated budget. We made an initial funding payment to TSRI of $137,500, on August 8, 2005. The agreement provides for additional aggregate funding payments of $1.0 million and $1.4 million in 2006 and 2007, respectively. We have no assurance that the research funded under this arrangement will be successful or ultimately will give rise to any viable product candidates. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate, on acceptable terms, a license with respect to some or all of the compounds arising from the collaboration. None of our current employees has experience selling, marketing and distributing therapeutic products. To the extent we are successful in obtaining approval for the commercial sale of picoplatin or any other product candidate; we may need to secure one or more corporate partners to conduct these activities. We may not be able to enter into partnering arrangements in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products, and any revenues we receive would depend upon the efforts of third parties, which efforts may not be successful. If we are not able to secure adequate partnering arrangements, we would have to hire additional employees or consultants with expertise in sales, marketing and distribution. Employees with relevant skills may not be available to us. Additionally, any increase in the number of employees would increase our expense level and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. We face substantial competition in the development of cancer therapies and may not be able to compete successfully, and our potential products may be rendered obsolete by rapid technological change. The competition for development of cancer therapies is substantial. There are numerous competitors developing products to treat the cancers for which we are seeking to develop products. Our initial focus for picoplatin is small cell lung cancer, a disease for which there currently are limited effective therapeutic options. Numerous companies, including AstraZeneca PLC, Cell Therapeutics, Inc., Exelexis, Inc., ImClone Systems Incorporated, ImmunoGen, Inc., Sanofi-Aventis Group, Inex Pharmaceuticals Corporation, Ipsen Limited, The Menarini Group, OSI Genetics, Inc. and PharmaMar USA, Inc., also are developing and testing therapeutics for small cell lung cancer. These therapeutics include chemotherapy, inhibitors, monoclonal antibodies, antagonists and interferons. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively compete with these or future third party product development programs. Many of our existing or potential competitors have, or have access to, substantially greater financial, research and development, marketing and production resources than we do and may be better equipped than we are to develop, manufacture and market competing products. Further, our competitors may have, or may 17 develop and introduce, new products that would render our picoplatin or any other proposed product candidates less competitive, uneconomical or obsolete. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may not be able to compete effectively, or operate profitably. Our success is dependent in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our patents and other proprietary rights and our ability to avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others. The United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO, may not issue patents from the patent applications owned by or licensed to us. If issued, the patents may not give us an advantage over competitors with similar technologies. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability and it is uncertain how much protection, if any, will be given to our patents if we attempt to enforce them and they are challenged in court or in other proceedings, such as oppositions, which may be brought in foreign jurisdictions to challenge the validity of a patent. A third party may challenge the validity or enforceability of a patent after its issuance by the USPTO. It is possible that a competitor may successfully challenge our patents or that a challenge will result in limiting their coverage. Moreover, the cost of litigation to uphold the validity of patents and to prevent infringement can be substantial. If the outcome of litigation is adverse to us, third parties may be able to use our patented invention without payment to us. Moreover, it is possible that competitors may infringe our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. We may need to file lawsuits to stop these activities. These lawsuits can be expensive and would consume time and other resources, even if we were successful in stopping the violation of our patent rights. In addition, there is a risk that a court would decide that our patents are not valid and that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of our patents was upheld, a court would refuse to stop the other party on the ground that its activities do not infringe our patents. In addition, the protection afforded by issued patents is limited in duration. With respect to picoplatin, in the United States we expect to rely primarily on US Patent Number 5,665,771 (expiring February 7, 2016), which is licensed to us by AnorMED, and additional licensed patents expiring in 2016 covering picoplatin in the European Union. The FDA has also designated picoplatin as an orphan drug for the treatment of small cell lung cancer under the provisions of the Orphan Drug Act, which entitles us to exclusive marketing rights for picoplatin in the United States for seven years following market approval. We may also be able to rely on the Hatch-Waxman Act to extend the term of a US patent covering picoplatin after regulatory approval, if any, of such product in the US. Under our license agreement with AnorMED, AnorMED retains the right to prosecute patent applications and maintain all licensed patents, with NeoRx reimbursing such expenses. Under the AnorMED agreement, we have the right to sue any third party infringers of the picoplatin patents in the licensed territory (worldwide except Japan). If we do not file suit, AnorMED, in its sole discretion, has the right to sue the infringer at its expense. In addition to the intellectual property rights described above, we rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. Therefore, others may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose our technology. We may not be able to effectively protect our rights in unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. We require each of our employees, consultants and advisors to execute a confidentiality agreement at the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. However, these agreements may not provide effective protection of our information or, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure, may not provide adequate remedies. The use of our technologies could potentially conflict with the rights of others. Our competitors or others may have or may acquire patent rights that they could enforce against us. In such case, we may be required to alter our products, pay licensing fees or cease activities. If our products conflict with patent rights of others, third parties could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of the affected products. If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. We may not prevail in any legal action and a required license under the patent may not be available on acceptable terms. 18 We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be better able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation because they have substantially greater resources. If there is litigation against us, we may not be able to continue our operations. If third parties file patent applications, or are issued patents claiming technology also claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings in the USPTO to determine priority of invention. We may be required to participate in interference proceedings involving our issued patents and pending applications. We may be required to cease using the technology or license rights from prevailing third parties as a result of an unfavorable outcome in an interference proceeding. A prevailing party in that case may not offer us a license on commercially acceptable terms. In April 2003, we received $10 million from the sale to Boston Scientific Corporation, or BSC, of certain non-core patents and patent applications and the grant to BSC of exclusive license rights to certain patents and patent applications. BSC originally asserted four such patents in two lawsuits against Johnson & Johnson, Inc., its subsidiary, Cordis Corporation, and Guidant Corporation, alleging infringement of such patents. In both lawsuits, the defendants denied infringement and asserted invalidity and unenforceability of the patents. BSC subsequently withdrew three of the patents from the litigation, including the patents that were assigned to BSC. We understand that BSC is still asserting a licensed patent against the defendants, but has also agreed, in principle, to purchase Guidant. Although we are not currently a party to the lawsuits, our management and counsel have been deposed in connection with the lawsuits. It is possible that BSC, if it is unsuccessful or has limited success with its claims, may seek damages from us, including recovery of all or a portion of the amounts it paid to us in 2003. We cannot assess the likelihood of whether such claim will be brought against us or the extent of recovery, if any, on any such claim. Product liability claims in excess of the amount of our insurance would adversely affect our financial condition. The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of picoplatin and any other proposed cancer therapy products, including past clinical and manufacturing activities in connection with our terminated STR radiotherapeutic, may subject us to product liability claims. We are insured against such risks up to a $10 million annual aggregate limit in connection with clinical trials of our products under development and intend to obtain product liability coverage in the future. However, insurance coverage may not be available to us at an acceptable cost. We may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in decreased demand for a product, injury to our reputation, withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers and loss of revenues. As a result, regardless of whether we are insured, a product liability claim or product recall may result in losses that could be material. Our use of radioactive and other hazardous materials exposes us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, and we may incur significant additional costs to comply with environmental laws in the future. Our research and development and manufacturing processes, as well as the manufacturing processes that may be used by our collaborators, involve the controlled use of hazardous and radioactive materials. As a result, we are subject to foreign, federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials and wastes in connection with our use of these materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by such laws and regulations, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety regulations in the future. In the event that we discontinue operations in facilities that have had past research and manufacturing processes where hazardous or radioactive materials have been in use, we may have significant decommissioning costs associated with the termination of operation of these facilities. These potential decommissioning costs also may reduce the market value of the facilities and may limit our ability to sell or otherwise dispose of these facilities in a timely and cost-effective manner. We have terminated our STR manufacturing operations in Denton, Texas and are actively marketing the facility for sale. In 2005, we recorded costs associated with the closure of the Denton facility, including decommissioning costs, of $0.9 million. We estimate costs in 2006 related to these activities at $0.1 million. These costs could increase substantially, depending on 19 actions of regulators or if we discover previously unknown contamination in or around the facility. In addition, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous or radioactive materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any such liability could exceed our resources. Our current insurance does not cover liability for the clean-up of hazardous waste materials or other environmental risks. Even if we bring products to market, changes in healthcare reimbursement could adversely affect our ability to effectively price our products or obtain adequate reimbursement for sales of our products. Potential sales of our products may be affected by the availability of reimbursement from governments or other third parties, such as insurance companies. It is difficult to predict the reimbursement status of newly approved, novel medical products. In addition, third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. If we succeed in bringing one or more products to market, we cannot be certain that these products will be considered cost-effective and that reimbursement to the consumer will be available or will be sufficient to allow us to competitively or profitably sell our products. The levels of revenues and profitability of biotechnology companies may be affected by the continuing efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare through various means. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In the United States, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental controls. It is uncertain what legislative proposals will be adopted or what actions federal, state or private payors for health care goods and services may take in response to any health care reform proposals or legislation. Even in the absence of statutory change, market forces are changing the health care sector. We cannot predict the effect health care reforms may have on the development, testing, commercialization and marketability of our proposed cancer therapy products. Further, to the extent that such proposals or reforms have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and profitability of other companies that are prospective collaborators for certain of our potential products, our ability to commercialize our products under development may be adversely affected. The loss of key employees could adversely affect our operations. In June 2005, Dr. Karen Auditore-Hargreaves resigned as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company and Linda Findlay was, as part of our strategic restructuring, terminated as Vice President, Human Resources. Although Dr. Auditore-Hargreaves and Ms. Findlay were officers of the Company, we did not, at the time of their resignation and termination, consider them key employees in terms of our picoplatin product development. The responsibilities of Dr. Auditore-Hargreaves and Ms. Findlay have been reassigned to other members of management. We did not experience any material disruptions or delays as a consequence of the resignation and termination of Dr. Auditore-Hargreaves and Ms. Findlay. As of December 31, 2005, we had a total work force of 21 full-time employees and 2 part-time employees. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued contributions of our principal management and scientific personnel participating in our picoplatin development program. We have limited or no redundancy of personnel in key development areas, including finance, legal, clinical operations, regulatory affairs and quality control and assurance. The loss of the services of one or more of our employees could delay our picoplatin product development activities or any other proposed programs and research and development efforts. We do not maintain key-person life insurance on any of our officers, employees or consultants. Competition for qualified employees among companies in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industry is intense. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees and consultants. In order to commercialize our proposed products successfully, we will in the future be required to substantially expand our workforce, particularly in the areas of manufacturing, clinical trials management, regulatory affairs, business development and sales and marketing. These activities will require the addition of new personnel, including management, and the development of additional expertise by existing management personnel. Our current financial situation may make it difficult to attract and retain key employees. 20 We have change in control agreements and severance agreements with all of our executive officers and consulting agreements with various of our scientific advisors. Our agreements with our executive officers provide for “at will” employment, which means that each executive may terminate his or her service with us at any time. In addition, our scientific advisors may terminate their services to us at any time. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock may be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market if we are unable to maintain compliance with Nasdaq Capital Market continued listing requirements. Our common stock listing was transferred from The Nasdaq National Market to The Nasdaq Capital Market (formerly the Nasdaq SmallCap Market) on March 20, 2003. We elected to seek a transfer to The Nasdaq Capital Market because we had been unable to regain compliance with The Nasdaq National Market minimum $1.00 bid price requirement for continued listing. By transferring to The Nasdaq Capital Market, we were afforded an extended grace period in which to satisfy The Nasdaq Capital Market $1.00 minimum bid price requirement. On May 6, 2003, we received notice from Nasdaq confirming that we were in compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement. We will not be eligible to relist our common stock on The Nasdaq National Market unless and until our common stock maintains a minimum bid price of $5.00 per share for 90 consecutive trading days and we otherwise comply with the initial listing requirements for The Nasdaq National Market. Trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market may have a negative impact on the value of our common stock, because securities trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market typically are less liquid than those traded on The Nasdaq National Market. On January 10, 2006, we received a notice from Nasdaq indicating that we are not in compliance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(8)(D) (the Minimum Bid Price Rule) because the closing bid price of our common stock had been below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days. In accordance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rules, we were provided 180 calendar days, or until, July 10, 2006, to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule. To regain compliance, the closing bid price of our common stock had to remain at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of ten consecutive trading days. On February 22, 2006, we received a notice from Nasdaq indicating that we had regained compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule. The closing bid price of our common stock may in the future fall below the Minimum Bid Price Rule or we may in the future fail to meet other requirements for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. If we are unable to cure any future events of noncompliance in a timely or effective manner, our common stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market If our common stock were to be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, we may seek quotation on a regional stock exchange, if available. Such listing could reduce the market liquidity for our common stock. If our common stock is not eligible for quotation on another market or exchange, trading of our common stock could be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock. If our common stock were to be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, and our trading price remains below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock might also become subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trade involving a stock defined as a “penny stock” (generally, any equity security not listed on a national securities exchange or quoted on Nasdaq that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions). Many brokerage firms are reluctant to recommend low-priced stocks to their clients. Moreover, various regulations and policies restrict the ability of shareholders to borrow against or “margin” low-priced stocks, and declines in the stock price below certain levels may trigger unexpected margin calls. Additionally, because brokers’ commissions on low-priced stocks generally represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher priced stocks, the current price of the common stock can result in an individual shareholder paying transaction costs that represent a higher percentage of total share value than would be the case if our share price were higher. This factor may also limit the willingness of institutions to purchase our common stock. Finally, the additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from facilitating trades in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the stock and the ability of investors to trade our common stock. 21 Our stock price is volatile and, as a result, you could lose some or all of your investment. There has been a history of significant volatility in the market prices of securities of biotechnology companies, including our common stock. In 2005, the high and low closing sale prices of our common stock were $2.34 and $0.47. In 2004, the high and low closing sale prices were $5.78 and $1.43. Our stock price has been and may continue to be affected by this type of market volatility, as well as our own performance. Our business and the relative price of our common stock may be influenced by a large variety of factors, including: • announcements by us or our competitors concerning acquisitions, strategic alliances, technological innovations, new commercial products or changes in product development strategies; • the availability of critical materials used in developing our proposed picoplatin product; • our ability to conduct our picoplatin clinical development program on a timely and cost-effective basis and the progress and results of our clinical trials and those of our competitors; • developments concerning patents, proprietary rights and potential infringement; • developments concerning potential agreements with collaborators; • the expense and time associated with, and the extent of our ultimate success in, securing regulatory approvals; • our available cash or other sources of funding; and • future sales of significant amounts of our common stock by us or our shareholders. In addition, potential public concern about the safety of our proposed picoplatin product and any other products we develop, comments by securities analysts, our ability to maintain the listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq system, and conditions in the capital markets in general and in the life science capital market specifically, may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. The realization of any of the risks described in this report, as well as other factors, could have a material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock and may result in a loss of some or all of your investment in our securities. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against companies following periods of volatility in their stock prices. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s time and resources, which could cause our business to suffer. Certain provisions in our articles of incorporation and Washington state law could discourage a change of control. Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 150,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 3,000,000 shares of preferred stock. With respect to preferred stock, our board has the authority to determine the price, rights, preference, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by our shareholders. In order to effectuate the proposed $65 million equity financing described in Item 7 below under the heading “Proposed Equity Financing,” we will be seeking shareholder approval at the special meeting of shareholders to be held April 11, 2006 to increase our authorized common stock to 200,000,000. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan, which is intended to protect the rights of shareholders by deterring coercive or unfair takeover tactics. The board of directors declared a dividend to holders of our common stock of one preferred share purchase right for each outstanding share of common stock. In addition, under certain circumstances, holders of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to receive one preferred share purchase right for each share of common stock into which their Series B preferred stock may be converted. The rights are exercisable ten days following the offer to purchase or acquisition of beneficial ownership of 20% of the outstanding common stock by a person or group of affiliated persons. Each right entitles the registered holder, other than the acquiring 22 person or group, to purchase from NeoRx one-hundredth of one share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock at the price of $40, subject to adjustment. The rights expire April 10, 2006. In lieu of exercising the right by purchasing one one-hundredth of one share of Series A preferred stock, the holder of the right, other than the acquiring person or group, may purchase for $40 that number of shares of our common stock having a market value of twice that price. Washington law imposes restrictions on certain transactions between a corporation and significant shareholders. Chapter 23B.19 of the Washington Business Corporation Act prohibits a target corporation, with some exceptions, from engaging in particular significant business transactions with an acquiring person, which is defined as a person or group of persons that beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting securities of the target corporation, for a period of five years after the acquisition, unless the transaction or acquisition of shares is approved by a majority of the members of the target corporation’s board of directors prior to the acquisition. Prohibited transactions include, among other things: • a merger or consolidation with, disposition of assets to, or issuance or redemption of stock to or from the acquiring person; • termination of 5% or more of the employees of the target corporation; or • receipt by the acquiring person of any disproportionate benefit as a shareholder. A corporation may not opt out of this statute. This provision may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of NeoRx or limiting future investment in NeoRx by significant shareholders and their affiliates and associates. The provisions of our articles of incorporation, shareholder rights plan and Washington law discussed above may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control of NeoRx, even if this change would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions also may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price and may adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. In addition, these provisions could make it more difficult to replace or remove our current directors and management in the event our shareholders believe this would be in the best interests of the corporation and our shareholders. Certain provisions of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock and certain outstanding warrants may prevent or make it more difficult for us to raise funds or take other actions. Certain provisions of the Preferred Stock and Warrant Purchase Agreement and Certificate of Designation for our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock may require us to obtain the approval of the holders of Series B preferred stock to amend, alter or repeal any provision of the Certificate of Designation which may be deemed to materially adversely affect the rights of the holders of Series B preferred stock or to authorize, create or issue any class or series of securities having liquidation or other rights superior to those of the Series B preferred stock. The Series B preferred stock also contains provisions requiring the adjustment of the conversion price if we issue (other than in connection with certain permitted transactions, such as strategic collaborations and acquisitions approved by the board of directors or transactions approved by a majority of the holders of the Series B preferred stock) shares of common stock at prices lower than the conversion price. This means that if we need to raise equity financing at any time when the prevailing or discounted market price for our common stock is lower than the conversion price, the conversion price will be reduced and the dilution to shareholders increased. Similar antidilution provisions are contained in common stock warrants issued to investors in connection with our 2004 and 2005 private placement transactions. These provisions may make it more difficult for our management or shareholders to take certain corporate actions and could delay, discourage or prevent future financings. These provisions could also limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock. The outstanding shares of Series B preferred stock were convertible into 3,446,389 shares of common stock as of December 31, 2005. On February 1, 2006, the holders of all outstanding shares of our Series B preferred stock entered into an agreement to convert their Series B preferred shares upon closing, if any, of the equity financing described under the heading “Proposed Equity Financing” below. If the proposed equity financing is completed, the outstanding shares of Series B preferred stock will be converted into an aggregate of approximately 9.5 million shares of common stock, and the Series B preferred shares so converted will be retired and cancelled and not reissued. 23 If we complete the proposed $65 million equity financing, the number of shares of our common stock outstanding will increase substantially and certain investors will beneficially own significant blocks of our common stock; upon registration, such common shares will be generally available for resale in the public market. If the proposed $65 million equity financing described in Item 7 below under the heading “Proposed Equity Financing” is completed, we will issue to a small group of institutional and other accredited investors an aggregate of approximately 92.9 million shares of common stock (which amount includes shares issued upon automatic conversion of the bridge notes), plus warrants to purchase an aggregate of approximately 25.4 million additional shares of common stock. These investors also have received warrants to purchase an aggregate of approximately 2.5 million shares of common stock in connection with their participation in the bridge loan. Concurrently with the closing, we additionally would issue an aggregate of approximately 9.5 million shares of common stock to the holders of our Series B preferred stock upon conversion of their Series B preferred shares. The issuance of such shares and warrants would have a substantial dilutive effect on shareholders who acquired our common stock prior to the closing of the proposed equity financing. The proposed equity financing is being led by MPM Capital. Upon closing of the proposed equity financing (assuming shareholder approval), MPM Capital would become the beneficial owner of approximately 30% of our common stock and would have representation on our board of directors, filling one of two new director positions to be created in connection with the financing. The second new director position would be filled by a representative selected by mutual agreement of MPM Capital and Bay City Capital. Bay City Capital would acquire beneficial ownership of approximately 16% of our common stock upon closing of the proposed equity financing. Two of our current directors, Dr. Fred Craves and Dr. Carl Goldfischer, are managing directors of Bay City Capital. Under the securities purchase agreement, we have agreed, if the proposed equity financing is completed, to file a registration statement with the SEC covering the resale of the approximately 92.9 million shares of common stock issued in the financing and the approximately 27.9 million shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants issued in the bridge loan and the equity financing. Upon such registration, these shares will become generally available for immediate resale in the public market. The approximately 9.5 million shares of common stock issued upon conversion of the Series B preferred stock similarly will be available for immediate resale pursuant to a registration statement or an exemption from registration under Rule 144 of the Securities Act. The market price of our common stock could fall as a result of such resales due to the increased number of shares available for sale in the market. WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION We file annual, quarterly and current reports, as well as registration and proxy statements and other information, with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These documents may be read and copied at the SEC’s public reference rooms in Washington, DC, New York, NY and Chicago IL. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms. Our SEC filings also are available to the public at the Internet website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. Our reports filed with the SEC after January 1, 2003, also are available on our website, www.neorx.com. The information contained in our website does not constitute part of, nor is it incorporated by reference into, this report. We will provide paper copies of our SEC filings free of charge upon request. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 