Risk Factors” in Item 1A below. Pending or future patent applications by us or our collaborators will not necessarily result in issued patents. Moreover, the current patents that we own or license may not provide substantial protection or commercial benefit. In addition to patent protection, we rely upon trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. Third parties could acquire or independently develop the same or similar technology, or our issued patents or those licensed by us could be circumvented, invalidated or rendered obsolete by new technology. Third parties also could gain access to or disclose our proprietary technology, and we may be unable to meaningfully protect our rights in such unpatented proprietary technology. Under United States law, although a patent has a statutory presumption of validity, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or as to the enforceable scope of its claims. Accordingly, the patents owned or licensed by us could be invalidated, infringed or designed around by third parties. Also, third parties could obtain patents that we would need to license or design around. Competition The competition for development of cancer therapies is substantial. There is intense competition from biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic research institutions, clinical reference laboratories and government agencies that are pursuing research and development activities similar to ours in the United States and abroad. Our initial focus for picoplatin is small cell lung cancer, the most aggressive and deadly form of lung cancer. Although platinum therapies are the preferred treatment, no FDA-approved therapies are available for patients with platinum-refractory or -resistant disease. If approved, picoplatin will be competing with existing treatment regimens, as well as emerging therapies for small cell lung cancer, and other platinum-based therapeutics. Large pharmaceutical/biotechnology 10 companies, including Bristol-Myer Squibb Company, Bayer Schering Pharma AG, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co. Ltd., Eli Lilly and Company, GlaxoSmithKline PLC, Novartis AG, Pfizer Inc., Genentech, Inc., Shionogi & Co. Ltd., SK Pharma and Sanofi-Aventis Group, are marketing and/or developing therapeutics in late-stage clinical trials for the treatment of small cell lung cancer or platinum agents for the treatment of cancer. Multiple biotechnology companies are engaged in clinical trials for the treatment of small cell lung cancer and other platinum-based therapeutics, including Aeterna Zentaris Inc., Access Pharmaceuticals Inc., GPC Biotech AG, Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc., Pharmion Corporation, Sunesis Pharmaceuticals Inc., Keryx Biopharmaceuticals Inc., Transave Inc., Vion Pharmaceuticals Inc., PharmaMar (Zeltia Group), ImmunoGen, Inc., Meabco A/S, Antigenics, Inc., Ipsen Group and Menarini Group. As we expand the utility of picoplatin into other oncology indications such as hormone-refractory prostate cancer and colorectal cancer, we will be facing additional competition from major pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, research institutions and government agencies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively compete with these or future third-party product development programs. Many of our existing or potential competitors have, or have access to, substantially greater financial, research and development, marketing and production resources than we do and may be better equipped than we are to develop, manufacture and market competing products. Further, our competitors may have, or may develop and introduce, new products that would render our picoplatin or any other proposed product candidates less competitive, uneconomical or obsolete. Timing of market introduction and health care reform, both uncertainties, will affect the competitive position of our potential products. We believe that competition among products approved for sale will be based, among other things, on product safety, efficacy, reliability, availability, third-party reimbursement, price and patent protection. Government Regulation and Product Testing The FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in state and local jurisdictions and in foreign countries impose substantial requirements upon the clinical development, manufacture, marketing and distribution of drugs. These agencies and other federal, state and local entities regulate research and development activities and the testing, manufacture, quality control, safety, storage, record-keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of picoplatin and any other future drug candidates. Product development and approval within these regulatory frameworks take a number of years to accomplish, if at all, and involve the expenditure of substantial resources. U.S. Government Regulation In the United States, drugs and biologics are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1976, as amended, and implementing regulations. The process required by the FDA before picoplatin and any future drug candidates may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: · completion of extensive preclinical laboratory tests, in vivo preclinical studies and formulation studies; · submission to the FDA of an Investigational New Drug Application (IND), which must become effective before clinical trials can commence; · performance of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the product candidate for each proposed indication; · submission of a Biologic License Application (BLA) or New Drug Application (NDA) to the FDA; and · FDA review and approval of the BLA or NDA prior to any commercial sale or shipment of the drug. 11 In addition to obtaining FDA approval for each product, each domestic drug manufacturing establishment must be registered with and inspected by the FDA. Domestic manufacturing establishments are subject to biennial inspections by the FDA and must comply with current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations, which are enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program for biologics, drugs and devices. To supply products for use in the United States, foreign manufacturing establishments must comply with cGMP regulations and are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA or by corresponding regulatory agencies in such countries under reciprocal agreements with the FDA. Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry and formulation, as well as animal studies, to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the proposed product. Laboratories that comply with the FDA regulations regarding Good Laboratory Practice must conduct preclinical safety tests. The results of the preclinical studies are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND and are reviewed by the FDA prior to commencement of clinical trials. Unless the FDA provides comments to an IND, the IND will become effective 30 days following its receipt by the FDA. Submission of an IND does not assure FDA authorization to commence clinical trials. Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational new drug to healthy volunteers or to patients under the supervision of a qualified principal investigator. Clinical trials are conducted in accordance with the FDA’s Protection of Human Subjects regulations and Good Clinical Practices under protocols that detail the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used to monitor safety, and the efficacy criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. Further, each clinical study must be conducted under the auspices of an independent Institutional Review Board (IRB) at the institution where the study will be conducted. The IRB will consider, among other things, ethical factors, the safety of human subjects and the possible liability of the institution. Clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap. In Phase I, the drug is tested for: · safety (adverse effects); · dosage tolerance; · metabolism; · distribution; · excretion; and · pharmaco-dynamics (clinical pharmacology). In Phase II, a limited patient population is studied to: · determine the efficacy of the drug for specific, targeted indications; · determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage; and · identify possible adverse effects and safety risks. If a compound is found to have potential activity in a disease or condition and to have an acceptable safety profile in Phase II clinical trials, Phase III clinical trials are undertaken to further evaluate clinical activity and to further test for safety within an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical study sites. Often, Phase IV (post-marketing) studies are required by the FDA in order to gain more data on safety and efficacy of a drug after it has transitioned into general medical practice. With respect to picoplatin or any proposed products subject to clinical trials, there can be no assurance that Phase I, Phase II or Phase III studies will be completed successfully within any specific time period, if at all. Clinical studies are inherently uncertain, and our current picoplatin and any future clinical trials may 12 not confirm the results achieved in earlier clinical or preclinical trials. If picoplatin is not shown to be safe and effective, we will not be able to obtain the required regulatory approvals for commercial sale of that product. Furthermore, we or the FDA may suspend clinical trials at any time if it is determined that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. The results of the pharmaceutical development, preclinical studies and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA for approval of the marketing and commercial shipment of the drug. The testing and approval processes are likely to require substantial cost, time and effort, and there can be no assurance that any approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. The FDA may deny an NDA if applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied, may require additional testing or information, or may require post-market testing and surveillance to monitor the safety of the product. If regulatory approval is granted, such approval may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. The FDA may withdraw product approvals if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur following initial marketing. Among the conditions for NDA approval is the requirement that the prospective manufacturers’ quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to cGMP regulations. In complying with standards set forth in these regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the areas of production and quality control to ensure full technical compliance. Foreign Regulation In addition to regulation in the United States, we will be subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of our proposed future products. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain approval of a product by comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those counties. The approval process varies from country to country, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement also vary greatly from country to country. Under the European Union regulatory systems, marketing authorizations may be submitted either under a centralized or mutual recognition procedure. The centralized procedure provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. The mutual recognition procedure provides for mutual recognition of national approval decisions. Under this procedure, the holder of a national marketing authorization may submit an application to the remaining member states. Within 90 days of receiving the application and assessment report, each member state must decide whether to recognize approval. In addition to regulations in Europe and the United States, we will be subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical trials and commercial distribution of our current and future product candidates. Employees As of March 8, 2007, we had 32 full-time employees and 6 part-time employees. Of these full-time employees, 8 hold PhD degrees, 2 hold M.D. degrees, and one holds a JD degree. Of the total full-time employees, 17 employees were engaged in research and development activities and 15 were employed in general administration. Alan Glassberg, M.D. resigned as our chief medical officer effective March 15, 2007 and will provide us consulting services as a member of our clinical advisory board. We consider our relations with employees to be good. None of our employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. 13 Corporate Background We are a Washington corporation that was originally incorporated as NeoRx Corporation in 1984. We changed our name to Poniard Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and relocated our corporate headquarters from Seattle, Washington to South San Francisco in September 2006. Our principal executive office and mailing address is 7000 Shoreline Court, Suite 270, South San Francisco, California 94080, and our telephone number is (650) 583-3774. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock or other securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully read the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this report before you decide to purchase our common stock. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occurs, we may be unable to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial and operating results could be harmed. In addition the trading price of our common stock could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Please see “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses, we expect to continue to incur losses, and we may never become profitable. We have not been profitable since our formation in 1984. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $279.6 million. Our net loss for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $23.3 million. We had net losses of $21.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and $19.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. These losses resulted principally from costs incurred in our research and development programs and from our general and administrative activities. To date, we have been engaged only in research and development activities and have not generated any significant revenue from product sales. In May 2005, we announced the discontinuation of our skeletal targeted radiotherapy (STR) development program as part of a strategic plan to refocus our limited resources on the development of picoplatin, a platinum-based cancer therapy. We do not anticipate that our picoplatin product candidate, or any other proposed products, will be commercially available for several years, if at all. We expect to incur additional operating losses in the future. These losses may increase significantly as we expand our clinical trials and increase our research and development activities and seek to commercialize picoplatin or any future product candidates. Our ability to achieve long-term profitability is dependent upon obtaining regulatory approvals for our picoplatin product candidate and any other proposed products and successfully commercializing our products alone or with third parties. We will need to raise additional capital to develop and commercialize our product candidates and fund operations, and our future access to capital is uncertain. It is expensive to develop cancer therapy products and conduct clinical trials for these products. We have not generated revenue from the commercialization of any product, and we expect to continue to incur substantial net operating losses and negative cash flows from operations for the foreseeable future. On April 26, 2006, we completed a $65.0 million equity financing; however, we will require substantial additional funding to develop and commercialize picoplatin and any other proposed products and to fund our future operations. 14 Management is continuously exploring financing alternatives, including: · raising additional capital through the public or private sale of equity or debt securities or through the establishment of credit or other funding facilities; and · entering into strategic collaborations, which may include joint ventures or partnerships for product development and commercialization, merger, sale of assets or other similar transactions. We may not be able to obtain the required additional capital or enter into relationships with corporate partners on a timely basis, on favorable terms, or at all. Conditions in the capital markets in general, and in the life science capital market specifically, may affect our potential financing sources and opportunities for strategic partnering. If we raise additional funds by issuing common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock, our shareholders may experience substantial dilution, and new investors could have rights superior to current security holders. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional cash when needed, we may be forced to reduce expenses though the delay, reduction or curtailment of our picoplatin and other development and commercialization activities. The amount of additional financing we will require in the future will depend on a number of factors, including: · the scope and timing of our picoplatin clinical program and other research and development efforts, including the progress and costs of our ongoing Phase II and planned Phase III trials of picoplatin in small cell lung cancer; · our ability to obtain clinical supplies of picoplatin active pharmaceutical ingredient and finished drug product in a timely and cost effective manner; · actions taken by the FDA and other regulatory authorities; · the timing of and amount of proceeds from any sale of the Denton facility and assets; · the timing and amount of any milestone or other payments we might receive from or pay to potential strategic partners; · our degree of success in commercializing picoplatin or any other product candidates; · the emergence of competing technologies and products, and other adverse market developments; · the acquisition or in-licensing of other products or intellectual property; · the costs, including lease and operating costs, incurred in connection with the relocation of our corporate headquarters to South San Francisco and the planned expansion of our workforce; · the costs of any research collaborations or strategic partnerships established; · the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and · the costs of performing our obligations under our loan with Silicon Valley Bank and Merrill Lynch Capital, including the cost of interest and other payment obligations and penalties and the cost of complying with unrestricted cash, product development and other covenants and restrictions under the loan agreement. During 2006, we experienced significant changes to our capital structure which resulted in an ownership change, as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (IRC). Consequently, the amount of net operating loss carryforwards and research and experimentation credit carryforwards available to be used in future years are limited under IRC Sections 382 and 383. This limitation will result in the loss of approximately $93.3 million of our net operating loss carryforwards and 15 $9.1 million of our research and development credit carryforwards. We had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $62.3 million available for future use as of December 31, 2006, which will expire from 2007 through 2026. Our potential products must undergo rigorous clinical testing and regulatory approvals, which could be costly, time consuming, and subject us to unanticipated delays or prevent us from marketing any products. The manufacture and marketing of our picoplatin product candidate and our research and development activities are subject to regulation for safety, efficacy and quality by the FDA in the United States and by comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals, including foreign approvals, is expensive, often takes many years and can vary substantially depending on the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. We have had only limited experience in filing and pursuing applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. This may impede our ability to obtain timely approvals from the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies. We will not be able to commercialize our product candidates until we obtain regulatory approvals, and consequently any delay in obtaining, or inability to obtain, regulatory approvals could harm our business. If we violate regulatory requirements at any stage, whether before or after marketing approval is obtained, we may be fined, forced to remove a product from the market or experience other adverse consequences, including delay, which could materially harm our financial results. Additionally, we may not be able to obtain the labeling claims necessary or desirable for product promotion. If we or other parties identify serious side effects after any of our products are on the market, or if manufacturing problems occur, regulatory approval may be withdrawn and reformulation of our products, additional clinical trials, changes in labeling of our products, and/or additional marketing applications may be required. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and manufacturing and marketing of our proposed products outside the United States vary widely from country to country. Foreign approvals may take longer to obtain than FDA approvals and can involve additional testing. Foreign regulatory approval processes include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval processes. Also, approval of a product by the FDA does not ensure approval of the same product by the health authorities of other countries. We may take longer to complete our clinical trials than we project, or we may be unable to complete them at all. We completed enrollment in our Phase II clinical trial of picoplatin in small cell lung cancer in August 2006, and we continue to treat and follow patients on this study for survival. This Phase II study is an open-label, multi-center trial evaluating picoplatin in patients with small cell lung cancer that did not respond to, or which relapsed within six months after completing, prior platinum-containing chemotherapy. The endpoints of the trial include survival, response rate (tumor shrinkage), duration of response and time to progression, Based upon positive interim overall survival data from our Phase II study, we plan to initiate an international, multi-center randomized Phase III pivotal trial of picoplatin in small cell lung cancer in the first half of 2007. The Phase III trial, which will be undertaken pursuant to an SPA with the FDA, is designed to compare the efficacy and safety of picoplatin plus best supportive care with best supportive care alone as a second-line therapy. The study is expected to enroll approximately 400 patients with small cell lung cancer whose disease did not respond to a first-line platinum-containing (cisplatin or carboplatin) chemotherapy regimen or whose disease responded initially to first-line platinum-containing therapy, but then progressed within six months after completion of treatment. Patients will be randomized on a 2:1 ratio 16 to receive picoplatin plus best supportive care or best supportive care alone. The primary endpoint of the planned study will be improved overall survival as measured in time from randomization to death. Secondary endpoints will include overall response rates, disease control and progression-free survival. We currently estimate that the study will take approximately 20 months to complete; however, the actual time to completion of the study will depend on the rate of patient enrollment, survival times of all patients in the trial, as well as other factors such as patient performance status, extent of disease and the risks and uncertainties described in this report. In May 2006, we treated our first patient in our Phase I/II study evaluating picoplatin in the front-line treatment of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. This study is designed to determine the safety and efficacy of picoplatin when combined with the chemotherapy agents 5-fluorouracil and leucovorin to treat patients newly diagnosed with metastatic disease. Also in May 2006, we enrolled our first patient in our Phase I/II trial of picoplatin in the first-line treatment of patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer. This study is designed to determine the safety and efficacy of picoplatin when combined with the chemotherapy agent docetaxel. We anticipate completing enrollment of the Phase I dose-evaluation components of these trials and initiating enrollment in the Phase II efficacy components of these trials during the first half of 2007. Endpoints of these studies will include safety, disease reduction, time to progression, progression-free survival and overall survival. The actual times for initiation and completion of our picoplatin clinical trials depend upon numerous factors, including: · approvals and other actions by the FDA and other regulatory agencies and the timing thereof; · our ability to open clinical sites; · our ability to enroll qualified patients into our studies; · our ability to obtain sufficient, reliable and affordable supplies of the picoplatin active pharmaceutical ingredient and finished drug product; · our ability to obtain adequate additional funding or enter into strategic partnerships; · the extent of competing trials at the clinical institutions where we conduct our trials; · the extent of scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions; and · the identified endpoints of the studies, the extent of patient disease and patient performance status. We may not initiate, advance or complete our picoplatin or any other proposed clinical studies as projected or achieve successful results. We will rely on academic institutions and clinical research organizations to conduct, supervise or monitor some or all aspects of clinical trials involving picoplatin. Further, to the extent that we now or in the future participate in collaborative arrangements in connection with the development and commercialization of our proposed products, we will have less control over the timing, planning and other aspects of our clinical trials. If we fail to initiate, advance or complete, or experience delays in or are forced to curtail our current or planned clinical trials, our stock price and our ability to conduct our business could be materially negatively affected. 17 If testing of a particular product does not yield successful results, we will be unable to commercialize that product. Our research and development programs are designed to test the safety and efficacy of our proposed products in humans through extensive preclinical and clinical testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the testing process that could delay or prevent commercialization of picoplatin or any other proposed products, including the following: · the safety and efficacy results obtained in early human clinical trials may not be indicative of results obtained in later clinical trials; · the results of preclinical studies may be inconclusive, or they may not be indicative of results that will be obtained in human clinical trials; · after reviewing test results, we or any potential collaborators may abandon projects that we previously believed were promising; · our potential collaborators or regulators may suspend or terminate clinical trials if the participating subjects or patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; and · the effects of our potential products may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or other characteristics that preclude regulatory approval or limit their commercial use if approved. Clinical testing is very expensive, can take many years, and the outcome is uncertain. The data that we may collect from our picoplatin clinical trials may not be sufficient to support regulatory approval of our proposed picoplatin product. The clinical trials of picoplatin and any other proposed products may not be initiated or completed on schedule, and the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may not ultimately approve any of our product candidates for commercial sale. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a cancer therapy product under development would delay or prevent regulatory approval of the product, which would prevent us from marketing the proposed product. Success in early clinical trials may not be indicative of results obtained in later trials. Results of early preclinical and clinical trials are based on a limited number of patients and may, upon review, be revised or negated by authorities or by later stage clinical results. Historically, the results from preclinical testing and early clinical trials often have not been predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. A number of new drugs and therapeutics have shown promising results in initial clinical trials, but subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and effectiveness data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are subject to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. If we cannot negotiate and maintain collaborative arrangements with third parties, our research, development, manufacturing, sales and marketing activities may not be cost-effective or successful. Our success will depend in significant part on our ability to attract and maintain collaborative partners and strategic relationships to support the development, manufacture, sale, marketing and distribution of picoplatin and any other future product candidates in the United States and Europe. We have entered into an exclusive worldwide license, as amended, with Genzyme Corporation (successor to AnorMED, Inc.) for the development and commercial sale of picoplatin. Under that license, we are solely responsible for the development and commercialization of picoplatin. Genzyme retains the right, at our cost, to prosecute its patent applications and maintain all licensed patents. The parties executed the license agreement in April 2004, at which time we paid a one-time upfront milestone payment of $1.0 million in common stock and $1.0 million in cash. The original agreement excluded Japan from the licensed territory and provided for $13.0 million in development and commercialization milestones, 18 payable in cash or a combination of cash and common stock, and a royalty rate of up to 15% on product net sales after regulatory approval. The parties amended the license agreement on September 18, 2006, modifying several key financial terms and expanding the licensed territory to include Japan, thereby providing us worldwide rights. In consideration of the amendment, we paid Genzyme $5.0 million in cash on October 12, 2006 and will pay Genzyme an additional $5.0 million in cash by March 31, 2007. The amendment eliminates all development milestone payments to Genzyme. Genzyme remains entitled to receive up to $5.0 million in commercialization milestones upon the attainment of certain levels of annual net sales of picoplatin after regulatory approval. The amendment also reduces the royalty payable to Genzyme to a maximum of 9% of annual net product sales. In addition, the amendment reduces the sharing of sublicense revenues for any sublicenses entered into during the first year following the amendment and eliminates the sharing of sublicense revenues with Genzyme on and after September 18, 2007. We currently plan to initiate a Phase III trial of picoplatin in small cell lung cancer in the first half of 2007, with the goal of filing an NDA with the FDA in 2009. However, because we cannot predict the length of time to regulatory approval, if any, or the extent of annual sales, if any, of picoplatin, we are unable to predict when or if the milestone and royalty payments under our license agreement with Genzyme may be triggered. The license agreement may be terminated by either party for breach, or if the other party files a petition in bankruptcy or insolvency or for reorganization or is dissolved, liquidated or makes assignment for the benefit of creditors. We can terminate the license at any time upon prior written notice to Genzyme. If not earlier terminated, the license agreement will continue in effect, in each country in the territory in which the licensed product is sold or manufactured, until the earlier of (i) expiration of the last valid claim of a pending or issued patent covering the licensed product in that country or (ii) a specified number of years after first commercial sale of the licensed product in that country. If Genzyme were to breach its obligations under the license, or if the license expires or is terminated and we cannot renew, replace, extend or preserve our rights under the license agreement, we would be unable to move forward with our current and planned picoplatin clinical studies. On August 4, 2005, we entered into a research funding and option agreement with The Scripps Research Institute, or TSRI. Under the agreement, as amended in December 2006, we will provide TSRI an aggregate of $2.5 million over a 26-month period to fund research relating to synthesis and evaluation of novel small molecule, multi-targeted protein kinase inhibitors and focal adhesion kinase inhibitors as therapeutic agents, including for the treatment of cancer. We have the option to negotiate a worldwide exclusive license to use, enhance and develop any compounds arising from the collaboration. The research funding is payable by us to TSRI quarterly in accordance with a negotiated budget. We made an initial funding payment to TSRI of $137,500, on August 8, 2005. We paid TSRI total funding payments of $1.0 million in 2006, which amount was charged to R&D expense. The agreement provides for aggregate additional funding payments of $1.4 million in 2007. We have no assurance that the research funded under this arrangement will be successful or ultimately will give rise to any viable product candidates. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate, on acceptable terms, a license with respect to any compounds arising from the collaboration. We are dependent on third-party suppliers for the timely delivery of materials and services and may experience future interruptions in supply For our picoplatin product candidate to be successful, we need sufficient, reliable and affordable supplies of the picoplatin active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, and finished drug product. Sources of these may be limited, and third-party suppliers may be unable to manufacture picoplatin API and finished drug product in amounts and at prices necessary to successfully commercialize our picoplatin product. Moreover, third-party manufacturers must continuously adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. If the facilities of these manufacturers cannot pass a pre-approval plant inspection, the FDA will not grant an NDA for our proposed products. In complying with cGMP and foreign regulatory requirements, any of our third-party 19 manufacturers will be obligated to expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality control to assure that our products meet applicable specifications and other requirements. If any of our third-party manufacturers or suppliers fails to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to regulatory action. We have a limited supply of picoplatin drug product that was manufactured by a prior licensee and supplier. The drug product has been demonstrated to be stable for up to 30 months from the date of manufacture. Our current supply will not be sufficient for our current and planned clinical trials. We have no experience in drug formulation or manufacturing, and we lack the resources and capability to manufacture picoplatin or any other product candidate on a clinical or commercial scale. As a result, we rely on third parties to manufacture picoplatin API and finished drug product for our clinical trials. We currently have separate agreements with one supplier each of API and finished drug product. Manufacturing services under these agreements are provided on a purchase order, fixed-fee basis. Unless earlier terminated, each agreement continues for an initial term ending December 31, 2009 and may be extended beyond the initial term upon agreement of the parties. The agreements generally provide that they may be terminated by either party if there is a material breach by the other party that remains uncured or in the event of solvency or bankruptcy of the other party. We may terminate the finished drug supply agreement at any time with one year’s advance notice. We may terminate the API manufacturing agreement if there is a change in control of the manufacturer. We have no assurance that our current suppliers will be able to manufacture sufficient picoplatin API and/or finished drug product on a timely or cost-effective basis at all times in the future. If we are required to seek out alternative manufacturers, we may incur significant additional costs and suffer delays in, or be prevented from, completing or initiating our ongoing or planned clinical trials. We also rely on third-party contractors to perform for us, or assist us with, the set-up, conduct, support and management of our clinical studies. Because these contractors provide specialized services, their activities and quality of performance may be outside our direct control. If these contractors do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, do not meet expected deadlines, or need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical trial protocols or for any other reasons, we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties. In any of these circumstances were to occur, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated or may need to be repeated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize the product candidate being tested in such trials. We currently have no sales and marketing staff or distribution organization. If we are unable to develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities on our own or through collaborations with corporate partners, we may not be successful in commercializing our future products. None of our current employees has experience selling, marketing and distributing therapeutic products. To the extent we are successful in obtaining approval for the commercial sale of picoplatin or any other product candidate, we may need to secure one or more corporate partners to conduct these activities. We may not be able to enter into partnering arrangements in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products, and any revenues we receive would depend upon the efforts of third parties, which efforts may not be successful. If we are not able to secure adequate partnering arrangements, we would have to hire additional employees or consultants with expertise in sales, marketing and distribution. Employees with relevant skills may not be available to us. Additionally, any increase in the number of employees would increase our expense level and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. If we are not successful in commercializing any future products, either on our own or through collaborations with one or more parties, our future product revenue will suffer and we may incur significant additional losses. 20 We face substantial competition in the development of cancer therapies and may not be able to compete successfully, and our potential products may be rendered obsolete by rapid technological change. The competition for development of cancer therapies is substantial. There is intense competition from biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic research institutions, clinical reference laboratories and government agencies that are pursuing research and development activities similar to ours in the United States and abroad. Our initial focus for picoplatin is small cell lung cancer, the most aggressive and deadly form of lung cancer. Although platinum therapies are the preferred treatment, no FDA-approved therapies are available for patients with platinum-refractory or - -resistant disease. If approved, picoplatin will be competing with existing treatment regimens, as well as emerging therapies for small cell lung cancer and other platinum-based therapeutics. Large pharmaceutical/biotechnology companies, including Bristol-Myer Squibb Company, Bayer Schering Pharma AG, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co. Ltd., Eli Lilly and Company, GlaxoSmithKline PLC, Novartis AG, Pfizer Inc., Genentech, Inc., Shionogi & Co. Ltd., SK Pharma and Sanofi-Aventis Group, are marketing and/or developing therapeutics in late-stage clinical trials for the treatment of small cell lung cancer or platinum agents for the treatment of cancer. Multiple biotechnology companies are engaged in clinical trials for the treatment of small cell lung cancer and other platinum-based therapeutics, including Aeterna Zentaris Inc., Access Pharmaceuticals Inc., GPC Biotech AG, Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc., Pharmion Corporation, Sunesis Pharmaceuticals Inc., Keryx Biopharmaceuticals Inc., Transave Inc., Vion Pharmaceuticals Inc., PharmaMar (Zeltia Group), ImmunoGen, Inc., Meabco A/S, Antigenics, Inc., Ipsen Group and Menarini Group. As we expand the utility of picoplatin into other oncology indications such as hormone-refractory prostate cancer and colorectal cancer, we will be facing additional competition from major pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, research institutions and government agencies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively compete with these or future third party product development programs. Many of our existing or potential competitors have, or have access to, substantially greater financial, research and development, marketing and production resources than we do and may be better equipped than we are to develop, manufacture and market competing products. Further, our competitors may have, or may develop and introduce, new products that would render our picoplatin or any other proposed product candidates less competitive, uneconomical or obsolete. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may not be able to compete effectively, or operate profitably. Our success is dependent in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our patents and other proprietary rights and our ability to avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others. The United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO, may not issue patents from the patent applications owned by or licensed to us. If issued, the patents may not give us an advantage over competitors with similar technologies. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability and it is uncertain how much protection, if any, will be given to our patents if we attempt to enforce them and they are challenged in court or in other proceedings, such as oppositions, which may be brought in foreign jurisdictions to challenge the validity of a patent. A third party may challenge the validity or enforceability of a patent after its issuance by the USPTO. It is possible that a competitor may successfully challenge our patents or that a challenge will result in limiting their coverage. Moreover, the cost of litigation to uphold the validity of patents and to prevent infringement can be substantial. If the outcome of litigation is adverse to us, third parties may be able to use our patented invention without payment to us. Moreover, it is possible that competitors may infringe our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. We may need to file lawsuits to stop these activities. These lawsuits can be expensive and would consume time and other resources, even if we were successful in stopping the violation of our patent rights. In addition, there is a risk that a court would decide that our patents are not valid and that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of our patents was 21 upheld, a court would refuse to stop the other party on the ground that its activities do not infringe our patents. In addition, the protection afforded by issued patents is limited in duration. With respect to picoplatin, in the United States we expect to rely primarily on US Patent Number 5,665,771 (expiring February 7, 2016), which is licensed to us by Genzyme, and additional licensed patents expiring in 2016 covering picoplatin in the Europe Union. The FDA has also designated picoplatin as an orphan drug for the treatment of small cell lung cancer under the provisions of the Orphan Drug Act, which entitles us to exclusive marketing rights for picoplatin in the United States for seven years following market approval. We may also be able to rely on the Hatch-Waxman Act to extend the term of a U.S. patent covering picoplatin after regulatory approval, if any, of such product in the United States. Under our license agreement with Genzyme, Genzyme retains the right to prosecute its patent applications and maintain all licensed patents, with us reimbursing such expenses. We have the right to sue any third party infringers of the picoplatin patents. If we do not file suit, Genzyme, in its sole discretion, has the right to sue the infringer at its expense. In addition to the intellectual property rights described above, we rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. Therefore, others may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose our technology. We may not be able to effectively protect our rights in unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. We require each of our employees, consultants and advisors to execute a confidentiality agreement at the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. However, these agreements may not provide effective protection of our information or, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure, may not provide adequate remedies. The use of our technologies could potentially conflict with the rights of others. Our competitors or others may have or may acquire patent rights that they could enforce against us. In such case, we may be required to alter our products, pay licensing fees or cease activities. If our products conflict with patent rights of others, third parties could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of the affected products. If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. We may not prevail in any legal action and a required license under the patent may not be available on acceptable terms. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be better able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation because they have substantially greater resources. If there is litigation against us, we may not be able to continue our operations. If third parties file patent applications, or are issued patents claiming technology also claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings in the USPTO to determine priority of invention. We may be required to participate in interference proceedings involving our issued patents and pending applications. We may be required to cease using the technology or license rights from prevailing third parties as a result of an unfavorable outcome in an interference proceeding. A prevailing party in that case may not offer us a license on commercially acceptable terms. In April 2003, we received $10.0 million from the sale to Boston Scientific Corporation, or BSC, of certain non-core patents and patent applications and the grant to BSC of exclusive license rights to certain non-core patents and patent applications. BSC originally asserted four such patents in two lawsuits against Johnson & Johnson, Inc., its subsidiary, Cordis Corporation, and Guidant Corporation, alleging 22 infringement of such patents. In both lawsuits, the defendants denied infringement and asserted invalidity and unenforceability of the patents. BSC subsequently withdrew three of the patents from the litigation, including the patents that were assigned to BSC. BSC acquired Guidant in April 2006. Although we are not currently a party to the lawsuits, our management and counsel have been deposed in connection with the lawsuits. It is possible that BSC, if it is unsuccessful or has limited success with its claims, may seek damages from us, including recovery of all or a portion of the amounts it paid to us in 2003. We cannot assess the likelihood of whether such claim will be brought against us or the extent of recovery, if any, on any such claim. Product liability claims in excess of the amount of our insurance would adversely affect our financial condition. The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of picoplatin and any other proposed cancer therapy products, including past clinical and manufacturing activities in connection with our terminated STR radiotherapeutic, may subject us to product liability claims. We are insured against such risks up to a $10.0 million annual aggregate limit in connection with clinical trials of our products under development and intend to obtain product liability coverage in the future. However, insurance coverage may not be available to us at an acceptable cost. We may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in decreased demand for a product, injury to our reputation, withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers and loss of revenues. As a result, regardless of whether we are insured, a product liability claim or product recall may result in losses that could be material. Our past use of radioactive and other hazardous materials exposes us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, and we may incur significant additional costs to comply with environmental laws in the future. Our past research and development and manufacturing processes, as well as the manufacturing processes that may have been used by our collaborators, involved the controlled use of hazardous and radioactive materials. As a result, we are subject to foreign, federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials and wastes in connection with our use of these materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials complied with the standards prescribed by such laws and regulations, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety regulations in the future. Because we have discontinued operations in facilities that have had past research and manufacturing processes where hazardous or radioactive materials have been in use, we may have significant decommissioning costs associated with the termination of operation of these facilities. These potential decommissioning costs also may reduce the market value of the facilities and may limit our ability to sell or otherwise dispose of these facilities in a timely and cost-effective manner. We have terminated our STR manufacturing operations in Denton, Texas and are actively marketing the facility for sale. In 2005, we recorded costs associated with the closure of the Denton facility of $0.9 million. We estimate costs in 2006 related to these activities at $0.2 million. These costs could increase substantially, depending on actions of regulators or if we discover previously unknown contamination in or around the facility. In addition, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous or radioactive materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any such liability could exceed our resources. Our current insurance does not cover liability for the clean-up of hazardous waste materials or other environmental risks. 23 Even if we bring products to market, changes in health care reimbursement could adversely affect our ability to effectively price our products or obtain adequate reimbursement for sales of our products. Potential sales of our products may be affected by the availability of reimbursement from governments or other third parties, such as insurance companies. It is difficult to predict the reimbursement status of newly approved, novel medical products. In addition, third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. If we succeed in bringing one or more products to market, we cannot be certain that these products will be considered cost-effective and that reimbursement to the consumer will be available or will be sufficient to allow us to competitively or profitably sell our products. The levels of revenues and profitability of biotechnology companies may be affected by the continuing efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In the United States, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental controls. It is uncertain what legislative proposals will be adopted or what actions federal, state or private payors for health care goods and services may take in response to any health care reform proposals or legislation. Even in the absence of statutory change, market forces are changing the health care sector. We cannot predict the effect health care reforms may have on the development, testing, commercialization and marketability of our proposed cancer therapy products. Further, to the extent that such proposals or reforms have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and profitability of other companies that are prospective collaborators for certain of our potential products, our ability to commercialize our products under development may be adversely affected. The loss of key employees could adversely affect our operations. Alan Glassberg, M.D. resigned as our chief medical officer effective March 15, 2007. Although Dr. Glassberg was an executive officer of the Company, we did not experience any material disruptions as a consequence of his resignation. Dr. Glassberg will serve on our clinical advisory board and provide us consulting services. Susan D. Berland resigned as our chief financial officer effective July 21, 2006. Although Ms. Berland was an executive officer of the company, we did not experience any material disruptions or delays as a consequence of her resignation. Caroline M. Loewy was appointed executive vice president, strategic planning on June 23, 2006 and assumed the role of chief financial officer of the company upon Ms. Berland’s departure. Michael K. Jackson, formerly corporate controller, was appointed principal accounting officer of the company effective July 21, 2006. As of December 31, 2006, we had a total workforce of 29 full-time employees and 6 part-time employees. In September 2006, we moved our corporate headquarters to newly leased facilities in South San Francisco. We intend to maintain clinical development and support activities and facilities in Seattle and do not have plans to relocate any of our 24 employees currently in Seattle. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued contributions of our principal management and scientific personnel participating in our picoplatin development program. We have limited or no redundancy of personnel in key development areas, including finance, legal, clinical operations, regulatory affairs and quality control and assurance. The loss of the services of one or more of our employees could delay our picoplatin product development activities or any other proposed programs and research and development efforts. We do not maintain key-person life insurance on any of our officers, employees or consultants. Competition for qualified employees among companies in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industry is intense. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees and consultants. In order to commercialize our proposed products successfully, we will in 24 the future be required to substantially expand our workforce, particularly in the areas of manufacturing, clinical trials management, regulatory affairs, business development and sales and marketing. These activities will require the addition of new personnel, including management, and the development of additional expertise by existing management personnel. We have change of control agreements and severance agreements with all of our executive officers and consulting agreements with various of our scientific advisors. Our agreements with our executive officers provide for “at will” employment, which means that each executive may terminate his or her service with us at any time. In addition, our scientific advisors may terminate their services to us at any time. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock may be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market if we are unable to maintain compliance with Nasdaq Capital Market continued listing requirements. Our common stock listing was transferred from The Nasdaq Global Market (formerly The Nasdaq National Market) to The Nasdaq Capital Market (formerly the Nasdaq SmallCap Market) on March 20, 2003. We elected to seek a transfer to The Nasdaq Capital Market because we had been unable to regain compliance with The Nasdaq Global Market minimum $1.00 bid price requirement for continued listing. By transferring to The Nasdaq Capital Market, we were afforded an extended grace period in which to satisfy The Nasdaq Capital Market $1.00 minimum bid price requirement. On May 6, 2003, we received notice from Nasdaq confirming that we were in compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement. We will not be eligible to relist our common stock on The Nasdaq Global Market unless and until our common stock maintains a minimum bid price of $5.00 per share for 90 consecutive trading days and we otherwise comply with the initial listing requirements for The Nasdaq Global Market. Trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market may have a negative impact on the value of our common stock, because securities trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market typically are less liquid than those traded on The Nasdaq Global Market. On August 7, 2006, we received a notice from Nasdaq indicating that we were not in compliance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4) (the Minimum Bid Price Requirement) because the closing bid price of our common stock had been below $1.00 per share for thirty consecutive trading days. We completed a one-for-six reverse stock split on September 22, 2006. On October 10, 2006, we received a notice from Nasdaq stating that we had regained compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement because the closing bid price of our common stock had been at or above $1.00 per share for ten consecutive trading days. The closing bid price of our common stock may in the future fall below the Minimum Bid Price Requirement or we may in the future fail to meet other requirements for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. If we are unable to cure any future events of noncompliance in a timely or effective manner, our common stock could be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market. If our common stock were to be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, we may seek quotation on a regional stock exchange, if available. Such listing could reduce the market liquidity for our common stock. If our common stock is not eligible for quotation on another market or exchange, trading of our common stock could be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock. If our common stock were to be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market, and our trading price remained below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock might also become subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trade involving a stock defined as a “penny 25 stock” (generally, any equity security not listed on a national securities exchange or quoted on Nasdaq that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions). Many brokerage firms are reluctant to recommend low-priced stocks to their clients. Moreover, various regulations and policies restrict the ability of shareholders to borrow against or “margin” low-priced stocks, and declines in the stock price below certain levels may trigger unexpected margin calls. Additionally, because brokers’ commissions on low-priced stocks generally represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher priced stocks, the current price of the common stock can result in an individual shareholder paying transaction costs that represent a higher percentage of total share value than would be the case if our share price were higher. This factor may also limit the willingness of institutions to purchase our common stock. Finally, the additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from facilitating trades in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the stock and the ability of investors to trade our common stock. Our stock price is volatile and, as a result, you could lose some or all of your investment. There has been a history of significant volatility in the market prices of securities of biotechnology companies, including our common stock. In 2005, the reported high and low closing sale prices of our common stock were $2.34 and $0.47. In 2004, the reported high and low closing sale prices were $5.78 and $1.43. The reported high and low closing sale prices during the period from January 3, 2006 through September 22, 2006 (the last trading day preceding the effectiveness of our one-for-six reverse stock split) were $1.57 and $0.50. The reported high and low closing sale prices during the period from September 25, 2006 through December 31, 2006 (after the effective date of the reverse stock split) were $7.74 and $3.00. Our stock price has been and may continue to be affected by this type of market volatility, as well as our own performance. Our business and the relative price of our common stock may be influenced by a large variety of factors, including: · announcements by us or our competitors concerning acquisitions, strategic alliances, technological innovations, new commercial products or changes in product development strategies; · the availability of critical materials used in developing our proposed picoplatin product; · our ability to conduct our picoplatin clinical development program on a timely and cost-effective basis and the progress and results of our clinical trials and those of our competitors; · developments concerning patents, proprietary rights and potential infringement; · developments concerning potential agreements with collaborators; · the expense and time associated with, and the extent of our ultimate success in, securing regulatory approvals; · our available cash or other sources of funding; and · future sales of significant amounts of our common stock by us or our shareholders. In addition, potential public concern about the safety of our proposed picoplatin product and any other products we develop, comments by securities analysts, our ability to maintain the listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq system, and conditions in the capital markets in general and in the life science capital market specifically, may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. The realization of any of the risks described in this report, as well as other factors, could have a material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock and may result in a loss of some or all of your investment in our securities. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against companies following periods of volatility in their stock prices. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities 26 litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s time and resources, which could cause our business to suffer. Certain provisions in our articles of incorporation and Washington state law could discourage a change of control. Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 200,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 2,998,425 shares of preferred stock. With respect to preferred stock, our board has the authority to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by our shareholders. Our shareholder rights plan adopted on April 10, 1996, and the preferred stock purchase rights issued to each common shareholder thereunder, expired on April 10, 2006. Washington law imposes restrictions on certain transactions between a corporation and significant shareholders. Chapter 23B.19 of the Washington Business Corporation Act prohibits a target corporation, with some exceptions, from engaging in particular significant business transactions with an acquiring person, which is defined as a person or group of persons that beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting securities of the target corporation, for a period of five years after the date the acquiring person first became a 10% beneficial owner of voting securities of the target corporation, unless the business transaction or the acquisition of shares is approved by a majority of the members of the target corporation’s board of directors prior to the time the acquiring person first became a 10% beneficial owner of the target corporation’s voting securities. Prohibited business transactions include, among other things: · a merger or consolidation with, disposition of assets to, or issuance or redemption of stock to or from the acquiring person; · termination of 5% or more of the employees of the target corporation; or · receipt by the acquiring person of any disproportionate benefit as a shareholder. After the five-year period, a significant business transaction may occur if it complies with “fair price” provisions specified in the statute. A corporation may not opt out of this statute. This provision may have an antitakeover effect with respect to transactions that our board does not approve in advance. The provisions of our articles of incorporation and Washington law discussed above may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control of the company, even if this change would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions also may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price and may adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. In addition, these provisions could make it more difficult to replace or remove our current directors and management in the event our shareholders believe this would be in the best interests of the corporation and our shareholders. As a result of the closing of our 2006 equity financing, the number of shares of our common stock outstanding increased substantially and certain investors beneficially own significant blocks of our common stock; such common shares are generally available for resale in the public market. On April 26, 2006, we completed a $65.0 million equity financing pursuant to a securities purchase agreement dated as of February 1, 2006. In connection with the equity financing, we issued to a small group of institutional and other accredited investors an aggregate of 15.5 million shares of common stock at a cash purchase price of $4.20 per share. Investors in the financing also received five-year warrants to purchase an aggregate of 4.6 million shares of common stock at an exercise price of $4.62 per share. Concurrent with the closing of the financing, we issued an aggregate of 1.6 million shares of common stock to the holders of our Series B preferred stock upon conversion of their outstanding Series B preferred shares. At the time of closing, the placement agent for the financing also received a five-year warrant to 27 purchase, on the same terms as the investors, 139,000 common shares. The issuance of such shares and warrants resulted in substantial dilution to shareholders who held our common stock prior to the financing. As a result of the completion of the financing and the conversion of the Series B preferred shares, our outstanding common stock increased from approximately 5.7 million shares to approximately 22.8 million shares. Entities affiliated with MPM Capital Management (MPM) acquired beneficial ownership of 7.7 million common shares, or approximately 31.5% of our common stock outstanding immediately following the financing. Entities affiliated with Bay City Capital Management IV LLC (BCC) acquired beneficial ownership of 4.6 million common shares, or approximately 19.5% of the common shares outstanding immediately following the financing. Two of our directors, Fred B. Craves and Carl S. Goldfischer, are managing directors of BCC and possess capital and carried interests in the BCC entities that participated in the financing. We have agreed, for as long as MPM owns at least 10% of the shares of common stock and warrants purchased in the financing, to use our best efforts to cause one person designated by MPM and one person designated by mutual agreement of MPM and BCC to be nominated and elected to our board of directors. Nicholas J. Simon III, a representative of MPM, was appointed to our board of directors on April 26, 2006. Mr. Simon is a general partner of certain of the MPM entities that participated in the financing and possesses capital and carried interests in those entities. Pursuant to the securities purchase agreement, we maintain an effective registration statement with the SEC covering the resale of the 15.5 million shares of common stock issued in the equity financing and the 4.6 million shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants. Accordingly, these shares are generally available for immediate resale in the public market. In addition, the approximately 1.6 million shares of common stock issued upon conversion of the Series B preferred stock currently are available for immediate resale pursuant to a registration statement or an exemption from registration under Rule 144(k) of the Securities Act. The market price of our common stock could fall as a result of such resales due to the increased number of shares available for sale in the market. WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION We file annual, quarterly and current reports, as well as registration and proxy statements and other information, with the SEC. These documents may be read and copied at the SEC’s public reference rooms in Washington, DC, New York, NY and Chicago IL. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms. Our SEC filings also are available to the public at the Internet web site maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. Our reports filed with the SEC after January 1, 2003, also are available on our web site, www.poniard.com. The information contained in our web site does not constitute part of, nor is it incorporated by reference into, this report. We will provide paper copies of our SEC filings free of charge upon request. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 