Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to certain risks and uncertainties in our business operations, including, but not limited to, those described below. Careful consideration of these risks, together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K and the other public information filed by us, should be made before making an investment decision. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our Corporate and Financial Structure Risks We have a substantial amount of debt, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. As of December 31, 2010, we had $6.380 billion in total debt securities outstanding. Our principal financing agreements contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to borrow funds, and any issuance of debt securities requires prior authorization from certain of our state regulatory commissions. We expect that we may need to supplement cash generated from operations and availability under committed credit facilities with new issuances of long-term debt. However, if market conditions are not favorable for the issuance of long-term debt, or if an issuance of long-term debt would exceed contractual or regulatory limits, we may postpone planned capital expenditures, or take other actions, to the extent those expenditures are not fully covered by cash from operations, borrowings under committed credit facilities or equity contributions from MEHC. A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect our access to capital, increase the cost of borrowing or raise energy transaction credit support requirements. Our long-term debt and preferred stock are rated investment grade by various rating agencies. We cannot assure that our long-term debt and preferred stock will continue to be rated investment grade in the future. Although none of our outstanding debt has rating-downgrade triggers that would accelerate a repayment obligation, a credit rating downgrade would increase our borrowing costs and commitment fees on our revolving credit agreements and other financing arrangements, perhaps significantly. In addition, we would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and the potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease. Further, access to the commercial paper market, the principal source of short-term borrowings, could be significantly limited, resulting in higher interest costs. Most of our large wholesale customers, suppliers and counterparties require us to have sufficient creditworthiness in order to enter into transactions with them, particularly in the wholesale energy markets. If our credit ratings were to decline, especially below investment grade, financing costs and borrowings would likely increase because certain counterparties may require collateral in the form of cash, a letter of credit or some other security for existing transactions, as well as a condition to further transact with us. Such amounts may be material and may adversely affect our liquidity and cash flows. MEHC could exercise control over us in a manner that would benefit MEHC to the detriment of our creditors and preferred stockholders. MEHC, through its subsidiary, owns all of our common stock and has control over all decisions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of our directors. In circumstances involving a conflict of interest between MEHC and our creditors and preferred stockholders, MEHC could exercise its control in a manner that would benefit MEHC to the detriment of our creditors and preferred stockholders. Our Business Risks We are subject to extensive federal, state and local legislation and regulation, including numerous environmental, health, safety and other laws and regulations that affect our operations and costs. These laws and regulations are complex, dynamic and subject to new interpretations or change. In addition, new laws and regulations are continually being proposed and enacted that create new or revised requirements or standards on our business. We are required to comply with numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that have broad application to our business and limit our ability to independently make and implement management decisions regarding, among other items, business combinations; constructing, acquiring or disposing of operating assets; operation of generating facilities and transmission and distribution assets; setting rates charged to customers; establishing capital structures and issuing debt or equity securities; transactions with affiliates; and paying dividends. These laws and regulations are implemented and enforced by federal, state and local regulatory agencies, such as, among others, the FERC, the EPA, MSHA and the OPUC. 19 Significant examples of laws and regulations and other requirements affecting our present and future operations include, among others, those described below: • Under authority granted to it in the Energy Policy Act, the FERC has approved regulations and issued decisions addressing electric system reliability; cyber security; critical infrastructure protection standards developed by the NERC; electric transmission planning, operation, expansion and pricing; regulation of utility holdings companies; and enforcement authority. The FERC has vigorously exercised its enhanced enforcement authority by imposing significant civil penalties for violations of its rules and regulations, which could be up to $1 million per day per violation. These regulations have imposed, or will likely impose, more comprehensive and stringent requirements and increase our compliance costs, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial results.• In July 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Reform Act"). The Dodd-Frank Reform Act reshapes financial regulation in the United States by creating new regulators, regulating new markets and firms and providing new enforcement powers to regulators. Virtually all major areas of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act, including collateral requirements on derivative contracts, will be the subject of regulatory interpretation and implementation rules requiring rulemaking proceedings that may take several years to complete. The outcome of the rulemaking proceedings cannot be predicted at this time; however, the impact of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial results.• The EPA's Clean Air Interstate Rule, which established cap-and-trade programs to reduce carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxides emissions starting in 2009 to address alleged contributions to downwind non-attainment with the revised National Ambient Air Quality Standards; federal and state renewable portfolio standards; and regulations that establish standards for air and water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste, hazardous waste and coal combustion byproducts.• Federal laws establishing underground coal mine safety, emergency preparedness and reporting, such as the Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response Act of 2006 ("MINER Act") and those laws administered by MSHA.• Hydroelectric relicensing with the FERC is a public regulatory process involving sensitive resource issues and uncertainties. We cannot predict with certainty whether the outcome of our settlement agreement with relicensing stakeholders for our Klamath hydroelectric system will result in dam transfer and removal by a third party, nor can we predict the requirements (financial, operational or otherwise) that may be imposed by relicensing, the economic impact of those requirements, and whether new licenses will ultimately be issued or whether we will be willing to meet the relicensing requirements to continue operating our hydroelectric generating facilities. Loss of hydroelectric resources or additional commitments arising from relicensing could adversely affect our consolidated financial results.Compliance with applicable laws and regulations generally requires us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. Further, compliance with laws and regulations can require significant capital and operating expenditures, including expenditures for new equipment, inspection, cleanup costs, damages arising out of contaminated properties and fines, penalties and injunctive measures affecting operating assets for failure to comply with environmental regulations. Compliance activities pursuant to laws and regulations could be prohibitively expensive. As a result, some facilities may be required to shut down or alter their operations. Further, we may not be able to obtain or maintain all required environmental regulatory approvals for our operating assets or development projects. Delays in or active opposition by third parties to obtaining any required environmental or regulatory permits, failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permits or increased regulatory or environmental requirements may increase costs or prevent or delay us from operating our facilities, developing new facilities, expanding existing facilities or favorably locating new facilities. If we fail to comply with any environmental requirements, we may be subject to penalties and fines or other sanctions. The costs of complying with laws and regulations could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Not being able to operate existing facilities or develop new generating facilities to meet customer electricity needs could require us to increase our purchases of electricity on the wholesale market, which could increase market and price risks and adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Existing laws and regulations, while comprehensive, are subject to changes and revisions from ongoing policy initiatives by legislators and regulators and to interpretations that may ultimately be resolved by the courts. For example, changes in law and regulations could result in, but are not limited to, increased retail competition within our service territories; new environmental requirements, including the implementation of renewable portfolio standards and greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions reduction goals; the issuance of stricter air quality standards and the implementation of energy efficiency mandates; the issuance of regulations over the management and disposal of coal combustion byproducts; the acquisition by a municipality of our distribution facilities; or a negative impact on our cost recovery arrangements.20 In addition to changes in existing legislation and regulation, new laws and regulations are likely to be enacted that impose additional or new requirements or standards on our business. For example, the United States Congress and federal policy makers recently considered, but did not adopt, comprehensive climate change legislation. Adoption of new federal and state laws and regulations and changes in existing ones is emerging as one of the more challenging aspects of managing utility operations. We cannot predict the future course of new laws and regulations, changes in existing ones or new interpretations by agency orders or court decisions nor can their impact on us be determined at this time; however, any one of these could adversely affect our consolidated financial results through higher capital expenditures and operating costs and cause an overall change in how we operate our business. To the extent that we are not allowed by regulators to recover or cannot otherwise recover the costs to comply with new laws and regulations or changes in existing ones, the additional requirements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial results. Additionally, even if such costs are recoverable in rates, if they are substantial and result in rates increasing to levels that substantially reduce customer demand, this could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial results. Recovery of our costs is subject to regulatory review and approval, and the inability to recover costs may adversely affect our consolidated financial results. State Rate Proceedings Rates are established for our regulated retail service through state regulatory proceedings. These proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including government bodies and officials, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns, but who generally have the common objective of limiting rate increases. Decisions are subject to appeal, potentially leading to further uncertainty associated with the approval proceedings. Each state sets retail rates based in part upon the state regulatory commission's acceptance of an allocated share of total utility costs. When states adopt different methods to calculate interjurisdictional cost allocations, some costs may not be incorporated into rates of any state. Ratemaking is also generally done on the basis of estimates of normalized costs, so if a given year's realized costs are higher than normalized costs, rates may not be sufficient to cover those costs. Each state regulatory commission generally sets rates based on a test year established in accordance with that commission's policies. The test year data adopted by each state regulatory commission may create a lag between the incurrence of a cost and its recovery in rates. Each state regulatory commission also decides the allowed levels of expense and investment that they deem are just and reasonable in providing the service and may disallow recovery in rates for any costs that do not meet such standard. State regulatory commissions also decide the allowed rate of return we will be given an opportunity to earn on our sources of capital. In certain states, we are not permitted to pass through energy cost increases in our retail rates without a general rate case or are subject to deadbands and sharing mechanisms. Any significant increase in fuel costs for electricity generation or purchased electricity costs could have a negative impact on us, despite efforts to minimize this impact through future general rate cases or the use of hedging contracts. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. While rate regulation is premised on providing a fair opportunity to obtain a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, the state regulatory commissions do not guarantee that we will be able to realize a reasonable rate of return. FERC Jurisdiction The FERC establishes cost-based rates under which we provide transmission services to wholesale markets and retail markets in states that allow retail competition. Under the Federal Power Act, we may voluntarily file, or may be obligated to file, for changes, including general rate changes, to our system-wide transmission service rates. The FERC also has responsibility for approving both cost- and market-based rates under which we sell electricity at wholesale, has licensing authority over most of our hydroelectric generating facilities and has broad jurisdiction over energy markets. The FERC may impose price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms to address some of the volatility of these markets or revoke or restrict our ability to sell electricity at market-based rates, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. The FERC may also impose substantial civil penalties for any non compliance with the Federal Power Act and the FERC's rules and orders. 21 We are actively pursuing, developing and constructing new or expanded facilities, the completion and expected cost of which are subject to significant risk, and we have significant funding needs related to our planned capital expenditures. We are actively pursuing, developing and constructing new or expanded facilities. We expect that we will incur substantial annual capital expenditures over the next several years. Expenditures could include, among others, amounts for new electric generating facilities, electric transmission or distribution projects, environmental control and compliance systems, as well as the continued maintenance of existing assets. Development and construction of major facilities are subject to substantial risks, including fluctuations in the price and availability of commodities, manufactured goods, equipment, labor and other items over a multi-year construction period, as well as the economic viability of our suppliers. These risks may result in higher than expected costs to complete an asset and place it in service. Such costs may not be recoverable in the rates or market prices we are able to charge our customers. It is also possible that additional generation needs may be obtained through power purchase agreements, which could increase long-term purchase obligations and force reliance on the operating performance of a third party. The inability to successfully and timely complete a project, avoid unexpected costs or to recover any such costs could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Furthermore, we depend upon both internal and external sources of liquidity to provide working capital and to fund capital requirements. If we are unable to obtain funding from internal and external sources, we may need to postpone or cancel planned capital expenditures. Failure to construct our planned projects could limit opportunities for revenue growth, increase operating costs and adversely affect the reliability of electricity service to our customers. For example, if we are not able to expand our existing generating facilities, we may be required to enter into long-term wholesale electricity purchase contracts or purchase wholesale electricity at more volatile and potentially higher prices in the spot markets to support retail loads. A sustained decrease in demand for electricity in the markets served by us would significantly decrease our operating revenue and adversely affect our consolidated financial results. A sustained decrease in demand for electricity in the markets served by us would significantly reduce our operating revenue and adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand include, among others: • a depression, recession or other adverse economic condition that results in a lower level of economic activity or reduced spending by consumers on electricity, including the significant adverse changes in the economy and credit markets experienced in 2008 and 2009;• an increase in the market price of electricity or a decrease in the price of other competing forms of energy;• efforts by customers, legislators and regulators to reduce the consumption of energy through various conservation and energy efficiency measures and programs; • higher fuel taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that increase, directly or indirectly, the cost of the fuel source for electricity generation or that limit the use of the generation of electricity from fossil fuels; and• a shift to more energy-efficient or alternative fuel machinery or an improvement in fuel economy, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, legislation mandating higher fuel economy or lower emissions, price differentials, incentives or otherwise.22 We are subject to market risk associated with the wholesale energy markets, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. In general, our primary market risk is the risk of adverse fluctuations in the market price of wholesale electricity and fuel, including natural gas, coal and fuel oil, which is compounded by volumetric changes affecting the availability of or demand for electricity and fuel. Wholesale electricity may be influenced by several factors, such as the adequacy of generating capacity; scheduled and unscheduled outages of generating facilities; prices and availability of fuel sources for generation; disruptions or constraints to transmission and distribution facilities; weather conditions; economic growth; and changes in technology. Volumetric changes are caused by unanticipated changes in generation availability or changes in customer needs that can be due to the weather, electricity and fuel prices, the economy, regulations or customer behavior. For example, we purchase electricity and fuel in the open market as part of our normal operating business. If market prices rise, especially in a time when larger than expected volumes must be purchased at market or short-term prices, we may incur significantly greater expense than anticipated. Likewise, if electricity market prices decline in a period when we are a net seller of electricity in the wholesale market, we will earn less revenue. We are subject to counterparty credit risk, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. We are subject to counterparty credit risk related to contractual obligations with wholesale suppliers and customers. Adverse economic conditions or other events affecting counterparties with whom we conduct business could impair the ability of these counterparties to timely pay for services. We depend on these counterparties to remit payments on a timely basis. For example, certain wholesale suppliers and customers experienced deteriorating credit quality in 2008 and 2009, and this trend continued, though on a limited basis, in 2010. If our wholesale customers are unable to pay us for energy, there may be a significant adverse impact on our consolidated financial results. We continue to monitor the creditworthiness of wholesale suppliers and customers in an attempt to reduce the impact of any potential counterparty default. If strategies used to minimize these risk exposures are ineffective or if our wholesale customers' financial condition deteriorates as a result of economic conditions causing them to be unable to pay, significant losses could result. We are subject to counterparty performance risk, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. We are subject to counterparty performance risk related to performance of contractual obligations by wholesale suppliers and customers. We rely on wholesale suppliers to deliver commodities, primarily natural gas, coal and electricity, in accordance with short- and long-term contracts. Failure or delay by suppliers to provide these commodities pursuant to existing contracts could disrupt the delivery of electricity and require us to incur additional expenses to meet customer needs. In addition, when these contracts terminate, we may be unable to purchase the commodities on terms equivalent to the terms of current contracts. We rely on wholesale customers to take delivery of the energy they have committed to purchase. Failure of customers to take delivery may require us to find other customers to take the energy at lower prices than the original customers committed to pay. At certain times of the year, prices paid by us for energy needed to satisfy our customers' energy needs may exceed the amount we receive through rates. If our wholesale customers are unable to fulfill their obligations, there may be a significant adverse impact on our consolidated financial results. Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain debt financing, draw upon or renew existing credit facilities, and have other adverse effects on us. During 2008 and early 2009, the United States and global credit markets experienced historic dislocations and liquidity disruptions that caused financing to be unavailable in many cases. These circumstances materially impacted liquidity in the bank and debt capital markets during this period, making financing terms less attractive for borrowers that were able to find financing, and in other cases resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. It is difficult to predict how the financial markets will react to the United States federal government's continued involvement or gradual withdrawal or removal of certain economic stimulus programs. Uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access funds on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to access the bank and debt markets to meet liquidity and capital expenditure needs, it may adversely affect the timing and amount of our capital expenditures and our consolidated financial results. 23 Inflation and changes in commodity prices and fuel transportation costs may adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Inflation may affect our business by increasing both operating and capital costs. As a result of existing rate agreements and competitive price pressures, we may not be able to pass the costs of inflation on to our customers. If we are unable to manage cost increases or pass them on to our customers, our consolidated financial results could be adversely affected. Our consolidated financial results may be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate, reliable and affordable access to electricity transmission service and natural gas transportation. We depend on electricity transmission and natural gas transportation facilities owned and operated by other companies to transport electricity to both wholesale and retail markets and to transport natural gas purchased to supply some of our generating facilities. If adequate transmission and transportation is unavailable, we may be unable to purchase and sell and deliver electricity. A lack of availability could also hinder us from providing adequate or cost-effective electricity to our wholesale and retail customers and could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. The different regional power markets have varying and dynamic regulatory structures, which could affect our growth and performance. In addition, the independent system operators who oversee the transmission systems in certain portions of the regional power markets in which we transact have imposed in the past, and may impose in the future, price limitations and other mechanisms to counter volatility in the power markets. These types of price limitations and other mechanisms may adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Our operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis and may be adversely affected by weather. In the markets in which we operate, demand for electricity peaks during the hot summer months when irrigation and cooling needs are higher. Market prices for electricity also generally peak at that time. In addition, demand for electricity generally peaks during the winter when heating needs are higher. Further, extreme weather conditions, such as heat waves, winter storms or floods could cause these seasonal fluctuations to be more pronounced. Periods of low rainfall or snowpack may impact electricity generation at our hydroelectric generating facilities, which may result in greater purchases of electricity from the wholesale market or from other sources at market prices. Additionally, we have added substantial wind-powered generation capacity, which is also a climate-dependent resource. As a result, our overall consolidated financial results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal and quarterly basis. We have historically sold less energy, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are mild. Unusually mild weather in the future may adversely affect our consolidated financial results through lower revenue or margins. Conversely, unusually extreme weather conditions could increase our costs to provide energy and could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. The extent of fluctuation in our consolidated financial results may change depending on a number of factors related to our regulatory environment and contractual agreements, including our ability to recover energy costs and terms of the wholesale sale contracts. We are subject to operating uncertainties that could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. The operation of complex electric utility (including generation, transmission and distribution) systems that are spread over large geographic areas involves many operating uncertainties and events beyond our control. These potential events include the breakdown or failure of electricity generating equipment, transmission and distribution lines or other equipment or processes; unscheduled generating facility outages; strikes, lockouts or other labor-related actions; shortage of qualified labor; transmission and distribution system constraints or outages; fuel shortages or interruptions; unavailability of critical equipment, materials and supplies; low water flows and other weather-related impacts; performance below expected levels of output, capacity or efficiency; operator error and catastrophic events such as severe storms, fires, earthquakes, explosions or mining accidents. A casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. Any of these risks or other operational risks could significantly reduce or eliminate our revenue or significantly increase our expenses. For example, if we cannot operate our generating facilities at full capacity due to damage caused by a catastrophic event, our revenue could decrease and our expenses could increase due to the need to obtain energy from more expensive sources. Further, we self-insure many risks, and current and future insurance coverage may not be sufficient to replace lost revenue or cover repair and replacement costs and the scope, cost and availability of our insurance coverage may change, including the portion that is self-insured. Any reduction of our revenue or increase in our expenses resulting from the risks described above, could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. 24 Potential terrorist activities or military or other actions could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. The ongoing threat of terrorism and the impact of military and other actions by the United States and its allies creates increased political, economic and financial market instability, which subjects our operations to increased risks. The United States government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically including electric utility infrastructure, are potential targets for terrorist organizations. Political, economic or financial market instability or damage to our operating assets or the assets of our customers or suppliers may result in business interruptions, lost revenue, higher commodity prices, disruption in fuel supplies, lower energy consumption and unstable markets, particularly with respect to electricity and natural gas, increased security, repair or other costs that may materially adversely affect us in ways that cannot be predicted at this time. Any of these risks could materially affect our consolidated financial results. Furthermore, instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital. Poor performance of plan and fund investments and other factors impacting our pension and other postretirement benefit plans, the joint trust plans to which we contribute and mine reclamation trust funds could unfavorably impact our cash flows and liquidity. Costs of providing our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans, as well as costs associated with the joint trust plans to which we contribute, depend upon a number of factors, including the rates of return on plan assets, the level and nature of benefits provided, discount rates, the interest rates used to measure required minimum funding levels, changes in benefit design, changes in laws and government regulation and our required or voluntary contributions made to the plans. Our pension and other postretirement benefit plans, as well as certain joint trust plans to which we contribute, are in underfunded positions. Even with sustained growth in the investments over future periods to increase the value of these plans' assets, we will likely be required to make significant cash contributions to fund these plans in the future. Furthermore, the Pension Protection Act of 2006, as amended, may result in more volatility in the amount and timing of future contributions. Similarly, funds dedicated to mine reclamation are invested in equity and fixed-income securities and poor performance of these investments will reduce the amount of funds available for their intended purpose which would require us to make additional cash contributions. Such cash funding obligations, which are also impacted by the other factors described above, could have a material impact on our liquidity by reducing our cash flows. We are involved in numerous legal proceedings, the outcomes of which are uncertain and could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. We are party to numerous legal proceedings. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties, and we cannot predict the outcome of individual matters. It is possible that the final resolution of some of the matters in which we are involved could result in additional payments in excess of established reserves over an extended period of time and in amounts that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial results. Similarly, it is also possible that the terms of resolution could require that we change business practices and procedures, which could also have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial results. Further, litigation could result in the imposition of financial penalties or injunctions which could limit our ability to take certain desired actions or the denial of needed permits, licenses or regulatory authority to conduct our business, including the siting or permitting of facilities. Any of these outcomes could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Potential changes in accounting standards may impact our consolidated financial results and disclosures in the future, which may change the way analysts measure our business or financial performance. The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") and the SEC continuously make changes to accounting standards and disclosure and other financial reporting requirements. New or revised accounting standards and requirements issued by the FASB or the SEC or new accounting orders issued by the FERC could significantly impact our consolidated financial results and disclosures. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 25 