ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors, or potential investors, in PacifiCorp should be aware of the significant risks described below. These risks should be carefully considered, together with all of the other information included in this annual report and the other public information filed by us. We are subject to extensive regulations that affect our operations and costs. These regulations are complex and subject to change. We are subject to numerous regulation and laws enforced by regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies include, among others, the FERC, the Environmental Protection Agency and the public utility commissions in Utah, Oregon, Wyoming, Washington, Idaho and California. Regulations affect almost every aspect of our business and limit our ability to independently make management decisions regarding, among other items, business combinations, constructing, acquiring or disposing of operating assets, setting rates charged to customers, establishing capital structures and issuing equity or debt securities, engaging in transactions with our subsidiaries and affiliates, and paying dividends. Regulations are subject to ongoing policy initiatives and we cannot predict the future course of changes in regulatory laws, regulations and orders, or the ultimate effect that regulatory changes may have on us. However, such changes could materially impact our financial results. For example, such changes could result in, but are not limited to, increased retail competition within our service territories, new environmental requirements, the acquisition by a municipality or other quasi-governmental body of our distribution facilities (by negotiation, legislation or condemnation or by a vote in favor of a Public Utility District under Oregon law) or a negative impact on our current cost recovery arrangements, including income tax recovery. The Energy Policy Act of 2005, or the Energy Policy Act, impacts many segments of the energy industry. To implement the law, the FERC has and will continue to issue new regulations and regulatory decisions addressing electric system reliability, electric transmission expansion and pricing, regulation of utility holding companies, and enforcement authority, including the ability to assess civil penalties of up to $1.0 million per violation per day, even in the absence of intentional violations. The full impact of those decisions remains uncertain; however, the FERC has recently exercised its enforcement authority by imposing significant civil penalties on us and other companies for violations of its rules and regulations. In addition, the Energy Policy Act requires federal agencies, working together with non-governmental organizations charged with electric reliability responsibilities, to adopt and implement measures designed to ensure the reliability of electric transmission and distribution systems. Such measures could impose more comprehensive or stringent requirements on us, which would result in increased compliance costs and could adversely affect our financial results. Further, several of our hydroelectric projects whose operating licenses have expired or will expire in the next several years are in some stage of the FERC relicensing process. Hydroelectric relicensing is a political and public regulatory process involving sensitive resource issues and uncertainties. We cannot predict with certainty the requirements (financial, operational or otherwise) that may be imposed by relicensing, the economic impact of those requirements, whether we will be willing to meet the relicensing requirements to continue operating our hydroelectric projects. Loss of hydroelectric resources or additional commitments arising from relicensing could adversely affect our financial results. 22 Recovery of our costs is subject to regulatory review and approval, and the inability to recover costs may adversely affect our financial results. State Rate Proceedings We establish rates for our retail service through state regulatory proceedings. These proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including government bodies and officials, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns, but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases. Decisions are subject to appeal, potentially leading to additional uncertainty associated with the approval proceedings. Each state sets rates based in part upon the state utility commission’s acceptance of an allocated share of total utility costs. When states adopt different methods to calculate interjurisdictional cost allocations, some costs may not be incorporated into rates of any state. Rate-making is also generally done on the basis of estimates of normalized costs, so if a given year’s realized costs are higher than normal, rates will not be sufficient to cover those costs. Each state utility commission generally sets rates based on a test year established in accordance with that commission’s policies. Certain states use a future test year and allow for escalation of historical costs, while other states use a historical test year. Use of a historical test year may cause regulatory lag, which results in us incurring costs, including significant new investments, for which recovery through rates is delayed. State commissions also decide the allowed rates of return MEHC will be given an opportunity to earn on its equity investment in us, as well as the allowed levels of expense and investment that they deem just and reasonable in providing service. The commissions may disallow recovery in rates for any costs that do not meet such standard. In Utah, Washington and Idaho, we are not permitted to pass through energy cost increases in our rates without seeking a general rate increase. Any significant increase in the cost of fuel used for generation or the cost of purchased electricity could have a negative impact on us, despite our efforts to minimize this impact through future general rate cases or the use of hedging instruments. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our financial results. While rate regulation is premised on providing a fair opportunity to earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, the state regulatory commissions do not guarantee that we will be able to realize a reasonable rate of return. FERC Jurisdiction The FERC establishes cost-based tariffs under which we provide transmission services to wholesale markets and retail markets in states that allow retail competition. The FERC also has responsibility for approving both cost- and market-based rates under which we sell electricity at wholesale and has licensing authority over most of our hydroelectric generation facilities. The FERC may impose price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms to address some of the volatility of these markets or may revoke or restrict our ability to sell electricity at market-based rates, which could adversely affect our financial results. The FERC may also impose substantial civil penalties for any non-compliance with the Federal Power Act or FERC rules or orders. We are actively pursuing, developing and constructing new facilities, the completion and expected cost of which is subject to significant risk, and we have significant funding needs related to our planned capital expenditures. We are engaged in several large construction or expansion projects, including construction of a new gas-fired generating facility; the Lake Side Power Plant in Utah; construction and development of multiple wind generating plants; various capital projects related to generation, transmission and distribution; and the development of an underground mine. In addition, in connection with MEHC’s acquisition of us in early 2006, MEHC and we have committed to undertake several other capital expenditure projects, principally relating to environmental controls, transmission and distribution, renewable generation and other facilities. Including these investments, we expect to incur substantial construction, expansion and other capital-related costs over the next several years. The completion of any or all of our pending, proposed or future construction or expansion projects is subject to substantial risk and may expose us to significant costs. The development or construction efforts on any particular project, or the efforts generally, may not be successful. Fluctuations in the price or availability of commodities, manufactured goods, equipment, labor and other items over a multi-year construction period can result in higher than expected costs to complete an asset and place it into service. Such costs, if found to be imprudent, may not be recoverable in rates. The inability to successfully and timely complete a project, avoid unexpected costs or to recover any excess costs through rate-making decisions may materially affect our financial results. 23 Furthermore, we depend upon both internal and external sources of liquidity to provide working capital and to fund capital requirements. If these funds are not available and MEHC does not elect to provide any needed funding to us, we may need to postpone or cancel planned capital expenditures. Failure to construct these projects could materially increase operating costs, limit opportunities for revenue growth and adversely affect the reliability of electric service to our customers. For example, if we are not able to expand our existing generating facilities, we may be required to enter into long-term electricity procurement contracts or procure electricity at more volatile and potentially higher prices in the spot markets to support growing retail loads. These contracts would result in additional counterparty performance risk, which is described further below. We are subject to numerous environmental, health, safety and other laws and regulations that may adversely impact financial results. Operational Standards We are subject to numerous environmental, health, safety, and other laws and regulations affecting many aspects of our present and future operations, including, among others: • the Environmental Protection Agency’s Clean Air Mercury Rule, which establishes a cap and trade program to reduce mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants starting in 2010; and • other laws or regulations that establish or could establish standards for greenhouse gas emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste and hazardous waste. These and related laws, regulations and orders generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. Compliance with environmental, health, safety, and other laws and regulations can require significant capital and operating expenditures, including expenditures for new equipment, inspection, cleanup costs, damages arising out of contaminated properties, and fines, penalties and injunctive measures affecting operating assets for failure to comply with environmental regulations. Compliance activities pursuant to regulations could be prohibitively expensive. As a result, some facilities may be required to shut down or alter their operations. Further, we may not be able to obtain or maintain all required environmental regulatory approvals for our operating assets or development projects. Delays in obtaining any required environmental or regulatory permits, failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permits or increased regulatory or environmental requirements may increase our costs or prevent or delay us from operating our facilities or developing new facilities. If we fail to comply with all applicable environmental requirements, we may be subject to penalties, fines or other sanctions. The costs of complying with current or new environmental, health, safety, and other laws and regulations could adversely affect our financial results. Further, our regulatory rate structure or long-term customer contracts may not allow us to recover all costs incurred to comply with new environmental regulations. Although we believe that, in most cases, we are legally entitled to recover these kinds of costs, the inability to fully recover such costs in a timely manner could adversely affect our financial results. Site Cleanup and Contamination Environmental, health, safety, and other laws and regulations also impose obligations to remediate contaminated properties or to pay for the cost of such remediation, often by parties that did not actually cause the contamination. We are generally responsible for on-site liabilities, and in some cases off-site liabilities, associated with the environmental condition of our assets, including power generation facilities, and transmission and distribution assets which we have acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. In connection with acquisitions, we may obtain or require indemnification against some environmental liabilities. If we incur a material liability, or the other party to a transaction fails to meet its indemnification obligations, we could suffer material losses. We have established liabilities to recognize our obligations for known remediation liabilities. However, future events, such as changes in existing laws or policies or their enforcement, or the discovery of currently unknown contamination, may give rise to additional remediation liabilities which may be material. 24 Inflation and increases in commodity prices and fuel transportation costs may adversely affect our financial results. Inflation affects us through increased operating costs and increased capital costs for plant and equipment. As a result of regulatory lag and competitive price pressures, we may not be able to pass the costs of inflation on to our customers. If we are unable to manage costs increases or pass them on to our customers, our financial results could be adversely affected. We are also heavily exposed to changes in prices and availability of coal and natural gas and the transportation of coal and natural gas because a majority of our generation capacity utilizes these fossil fuels. We currently have contracts of varying durations for the supply and transportation of coal for our existing generation capacity, although we obtain some of our coal supply from mines owned or leased by us. When these contracts expire or if they are not honored, we may not be able to purchase or transport coal on terms as favorable as the current contracts. We have similar exposures regarding the market price of natural gas. Changes in the cost of coal or natural gas supply or transportation and changes in the relationship between such costs and the market price of power will affect our financial results. Since the sales price we receive for power may not change at the same rate as our coal or natural gas supply or transportation costs, we may be unable to pass on the changes in costs to our customers. Our financial results may be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate, reliable and affordable transmission service. We depend on transmission facilities owned and operated by utilities to transport electricity to both wholesale and retail markets, as well as natural gas purchased to supply some of our electric generation facilities. We have legal obligations to serve our retail customers and some of our wholesale customers, and if adequate transmission is unavailable to serve those customers’ loads economically, we will incur additional costs to deliver power. Such unavailability could also decrease our revenue if we are unable to purchase or sell and deliver products to our other wholesale customers. For these reasons, limits on the availability of transmission service could adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to market risk, counterparty performance risk and other risks associated with wholesale energy markets. In general, wholesale market risk is the risk of adverse fluctuations in the market price of wholesale electricity and fuel, including natural gas and coal, which is compounded by volumetric changes affecting the availability of or demand for electricity and fuel. We purchase electricity and fuel in the open market or pursuant to short-term or variable-priced contracts as part of our normal operating business. If market prices rise, especially in a time when larger than expected volumes must be purchased at market or short-term prices, we may incur significantly greater expense than anticipated. Likewise, if electricity market prices decline in a period when we are a net seller of electricity in the wholesale market, we will earn less revenue. Wholesale electricity prices in our service areas are influenced primarily by factors throughout the western United States relating to supply and demand. Those factors include the adequacy of generating capacity, scheduled and unscheduled outages of generating facilities, hydroelectric generation levels, prices and availability of fuel sources for generation, disruptions or constraints to transmission facilities, weather conditions, economic growth and changes in technology. Volumetric changes are caused by unanticipated changes in generation availability and/or changes in customer loads due to the weather, the economy or customer behavior. Although we plan for resources to meet our current and expected retail and wholesale load obligations, we are a net buyer of electricity during some peak periods and therefore our energy costs may be adversely impacted by market risk. In addition, we may not be able to timely recover all, if any, of those increased costs unless the state regulators authorize such recovery. We are also exposed to risks related to performance of contractual obligations by our wholesale suppliers and customers. We rely on suppliers to deliver commodities, primarily natural gas, coal and electricity, in accordance with short- and long-term contracts. Failure or delay by suppliers to provide these commodities pursuant to existing contracts could disrupt our ability to deliver electricity and require us to incur additional expenses to meet customer needs. In addition, when these contractual agreements end, we may be unable to purchase commodities on terms equivalent to the terms of current contracts. We rely on wholesale customers to take delivery of the energy they have committed to purchase and to pay for the energy on a timely basis. Failure of customers to take delivery may require us to find other customers to take the energy at lower prices than the original customers committed to pay. At certain times of year, prices paid by us for energy needed to satisfy our customers’ demand for energy may exceed the amounts we receive through rates from these customers. If the strategy we use to economically hedge the exposure to these risks is ineffective, we could incur significant losses. 25 Our operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. The sale of electric power is generally a seasonal business. In the markets in which we operate, customer demand peaks in the winter months due to heating requirements and also peaks in the summer months due to irrigation and cooling needs. Extreme weather conditions such as heat waves or winter storms could cause these seasonal fluctuations to be more pronounced. In addition, a portion of our supply of electricity comes from hydroelectric projects that are dependent upon rainfall and snowpack. As a result, our overall financial results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal and quarterly basis. We have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are mild. Unusually mild weather in the future may adversely affect our financial results through lower revenues or increased energy costs. Conversely, unusually extreme weather conditions could increase our costs to provide power and adversely affect our financial results. Furthermore, during or following periods of low rainfall or snowpack, we may obtain substantially less electricity from hydroelectric projects and must purchase greater amounts of electricity from the wholesale market or from other sources at market prices. The extent of fluctuation in financial results may change depending on a number of factors related to our regulatory environment and contractual agreements, including our ability to recover power costs and terms of the power sale contracts. We are subject to operating uncertainties which may adversely affect our financial results. The operation of a complex electric utility (including generating, transmission and distribution systems) involves many operating uncertainties and events that are beyond our control. These potential events include the breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission and distribution lines or other equipment or processes; unscheduled plant outages; work stoppages; shortage of qualified labor; transmission and distribution system constraints or outages; inadequate coal reserves and other fuel shortages or interruptions; unavailability of critical equipment, material and supplies; low water flows; performance below expected levels of output, capacity or efficiency; operator error; and catastrophic events such as severe storms, fires, earthquakes, explosions or mining accidents. A casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. Any of these risks could significantly reduce or eliminate our revenues or significantly increase our expenses. For example, if we cannot operate generation facilities at full capacity due to damage caused by a catastrophic event, our revenues could decrease due to decreased wholesale sales and our expenses could increase due to the need to obtain energy from more expensive sources. Further, current and future insurance coverage may not be sufficient to replace lost revenue or cover repair and replacement costs. Any reduction of revenues for such reason, or any other reduction of our revenues or increase in our expenses resulting from the risks described above could adversely affect our financial results. Potential terrorist activities or military or other actions could adversely affect us. The continued threat of terrorism since September 11, 2001 and the impact of military and other actions by the United States and its allies may lead to increased political, economic and financial market instability and subject our operations to increased risk of acts of terrorism. The United States government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically including electric utility infrastructure, are potential targets of terrorist organizations. Political, economic or financial market instability or damage to our operating assets or the assets of our customers or suppliers may result in business interruptions, lost revenues, higher commodity prices, disruption in fuel supplies, lower energy consumption and unstable wholesale energy markets, increased security, repair or other costs that may materially adversely affect us in ways that cannot be predicted at this time. Any of these risks could materially affect our financial results. Furthermore, instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital. The insurance industry changed in response to these events. As a result, insurance covering risks we typically insure against may decrease in scope and availability, and we may elect to self-insure against many such risks. In addition, the available insurance may have higher deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive policy terms. 26 Poor performance of plan investments and other factors impacting pension and postretirement benefits plan costs could unfavorably impact our cash flows and liquidity. Costs of providing our non-contributory defined benefit pension and postretirement benefits plans depend upon a number of factors, including the level and nature of benefits provided, the rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, the interest rates used to measure required minimum funding levels, changes in laws and government regulation and our required or voluntary contributions made to the plans. Our pension and postretirement benefits plans are in underfunded positions, and without sustained growth in the investments over time to increase the value of the plans’ assets, we will be required to make significant cash contributions to fund the plans. Furthermore, the recently enacted Pension Protection Act of 2006 may require us to accelerate contributions to our pension plan for periods after 2007 and may result in more volatility in the amount and timing of future contributions. Such cash funding obligations, which are also impacted by the other factors described above, could have a material impact on our liquidity by reducing our cash flows. A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect our access to capital, increase the cost of borrowing or raise energy transaction credit support requirements. Our debt securities and preferred stock are rated investment grade by various rating agencies but may not continue to be rated investment grade in the future. Although none of our outstanding debt has rating-downgrade triggers that would accelerate a repayment obligation, a credit rating downgrade would increase our borrowing costs and commitment fees on our revolving credit agreement and other financing arrangements, perhaps significantly. In addition, we would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and the potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease. Further, access to the commercial paper market, our principal source of short-term borrowings, could be significantly limited, resulting in higher interest costs. Most of our large customers, suppliers and counterparties require sufficient creditworthiness in order to enter into transactions, particularly in the wholesale energy markets. If our credit ratings or the credit ratings of our subsidiaries were to decline, especially below investment grade, operating costs would likely increase because counterparties may require a letter of credit, collateral in the form of cash-related instruments or some other security as a condition to further transactions with us. We have a substantial amount of debt, which could adversely affect our ability to obtain future financing and limit our expenditures. As of December 31, 2006, we had $4.4 billion in total debt securities outstanding. Our principal financing agreements contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to borrow funds, and any issuance of debt securities requires prior authorization from multiple state regulatory commissions. We expect that we will need to supplement cash generated from operations and availability under committed credit facilities with new issuances of long-term debt. However, if market conditions are not favorable for the issuance of long-term debt, or if an issuance of long-term debt would exceed contractual or regulatory limits, we may postpone planned capital expenditures, or take other actions, to the extent those expenditures are not fully covered by cash from operations, borrowings under committed credit facilities or equity contributions from MEHC. MEHC may exercise its significant influence over us in a manner that would benefit MEHC to the detriment of our creditors and preferred stockholders. MEHC, through its subsidiary, owns all of our common stock and therefore has significant influence over our business and any matters submitted for shareholder approval. In circumstances involving a conflict of interest between MEHC and our creditors and preferred stockholders, MEHC could exercise its influence in a manner that would benefit MEHC to the detriment of our creditors and preferred stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS No information is required to be reported pursuant to this item. ITEM 