ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to certain risks in our business operations as described below. Careful consideration of these risks, together with all of the other information included in this annual report and the other public information filed by us, should be made before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business operations. We are subject to extensive regulations and legislation that affect our operations and costs. These regulations and laws are complex, dynamic and subject to change. We are subject to numerous regulations and laws enforced by regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies include, among others, the FERC, the WECC, the EPA and the public utility commissions in Utah, Oregon, Wyoming, Washington, Idaho and California. Regulations affect almost every aspect of our business and limit our ability to independently make and implement management decisions regarding, among other items, constructing, acquiring or disposing of operating assets; business combinations; setting rates charged to customers; establishing capital structures and issuing debt or equity securities; engaging in transactions between our subsidiaries and affiliates; and paying dividends. Regulations are subject to ongoing policy initiatives and we cannot predict the future course of changes in laws, regulations and orders, or the ultimate effect that regulatory changes may have on us. However, such changes could materially impact our financial results. For example, such changes could result in, but are not limited to, increased retail competition within our service territories; new environmental requirements, including the implementation of RPS and greenhouse gas emissions reduction goals; implementation of energy efficiency mandates or renewable energy standards; increased retail competition within our service territories; the acquisition by a municipality or other quasi-governmental body of our distribution facilities (by negotiation, legislation or condemnation or by a vote in favor of a public utility district under Oregon law); or a negative impact on our current cost recovery arrangements, including income tax recovery. Federal and state energy regulation changes are one of the more challenging aspects of managing utility operations. New and expanded regulations imposed by policy makers, court systems, and industry restructuring have imposed changes on the industry. The following are examples of changes to our regulatory environment that have impacted us: · Energy Policy Act – The Energy Policy Act impacts many segments of the energy industry. The United States Congress granted the FERC additional authority in the Energy Policy Act, which expanded its role from a regulatory body to an enforcement agency. To implement the law, the FERC adopted new regulations and issued regulatory decisions addressing electric system reliability, electric transmission planning, operation, expansion and pricing, regulation of utility holding companies, and enforcement authority, including the ability to assess civil penalties of up to $1 million per day per violation for non-compliance. The FERC has essentially completed its implementation of the Energy Policy Act and the emphasis of its recent decisions is on reporting and compliance. In that regard, the FERC has vigorously exercised its enforcement authority by imposing significant civil penalties for violations of its rules and regulations. For example, as a result of past events affecting electric reliability, the Energy Policy Act requires federal agencies, working together with non-governmental organizations charged with electric reliability responsibilities, to adopt and implement measures designed to ensure the reliability of electric transmission and distribution systems. Since the adoption of the Energy Policy Act, the FERC has approved numerous electric reliability, cyber security and critical infrastructure protection standards developed by the NERC. A transmission owner’s reliability compliance issues with these and future standards could result in financial penalties. In FERC Order No. 693, the FERC implemented its authority to impose penalties of up to $1 million per day per violation for failure to comply with electric reliability standards. The adoption of these and future electric reliability standards has imposed more comprehensive and stringent requirements on us, which has increased compliance costs. It is possible that the cost of complying with these and any additional standards adopted in the future could adversely affect our financial results. 29 · FERC Orders – The FERC has issued a series of orders to foster greater competition in wholesale power markets by reducing barriers to entry in the provision of transmission service. In FERC Order Nos. 888, 889, 890, 890-A, 890-B and 717, the FERC required electric utilities to adopt a proforma OATT by which transmission service would be provided on a just, reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential basis. The rules adopted by these orders promote transparency and consistency in the administration of the OATT, increase the ability of customers to access new generating resources and promote efficient utilization of transmission by requiring an open, transparent and coordinated transmission planning process. Together with the increased reliability standards required of transmission providers, the costs of operating the transmission system and providing transmission service have increased, and to the extent such increased costs are not recovered in rates charged to customers, they could adversely affect our financial results. · Hydroelectric Relicensing – Currently, the Klamath hydroelectric system, whose operating license has expired and is operating on annual licenses, is engaged in the FERC relicensing process. Through negotiations with relicensing stakeholders, disposition of the relicensing process and a path toward dam transfer and removal by a third party may occur as an alternative to relicensing. Hydroelectric relicensing is a political and public regulatory process involving sensitive resource issues and uncertainties. We cannot predict with certainty the requirements (financial, operational or otherwise) that may be imposed by relicensing, the economic impact of those requirements, and whether a new license will ultimately be issued or whether we will be willing to meet the relicensing requirements to continue operating our hydroelectric generating facilities. Loss of hydroelectric resources or additional commitments arising from relicensing could adversely affect our financial results. In addition to the foregoing examples, the new Obama administration has stated that many aspects of energy and the environment, including renewable resources and climate change, will be a key component of its policy agenda. We cannot predict what actions the administration may take, the laws or regulations that may be adopted or the ultimate effect that any of these may have on us; however, such effect could materially impact our financial results. We are subject to numerous environmental, health, safety and other laws, regulations and other requirements that could adversely affect our financial results. Operational Standards We are subject to numerous environmental, health, safety and other laws, regulations and other requirements affecting many aspects of our present and future operations, including, among others: · the provisions of the MINER Act to improve underground coal mine safety and emergency preparedness; · the implementation of federal and state RPS; and · other laws or regulations that establish or could establish standards for greenhouse gas emissions, air quality, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste and hazardous waste. These and related laws, regulations and orders generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. 30 Compliance with environmental, health, safety, and other laws, regulations and other requirements can require significant capital and operating expenditures, including expenditures for new equipment, inspection, cleanup costs, damages arising out of contaminated properties, and fines, penalties and injunctive measures affecting operating assets for failure to comply with environmental regulations. Compliance activities pursuant to regulations could be prohibitively expensive. As a result, some facilities may be required to shut down or alter their operations. Further, we may not be able to obtain or maintain all required environmental regulatory approvals for our operating assets or development projects. Delays in or active opposition by third parties to obtaining any required environmental or regulatory permits, failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permits or increased regulatory or environmental requirements may increase costs or prevent or delay us from operating our facilities, developing new facilities, expanding existing facilities or favorably locating new facilities. If we fail to comply with all applicable environmental requirements, we may be subject to penalties and fines or other sanctions. The costs of complying with current or new environmental, health, safety and other laws, regulations and other requirements could adversely affect our financial results. Not being able to operate existing facilities or develop new electric generating facilities to meet customer energy needs could require us to increase our purchases of power from the wholesale markets, which could increase market and price risks and adversely affect our financial results. Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed both in the United States and worldwide to reduce so-called “greenhouse gases” such as carbon dioxide (a by-product of burning fossil fuels), methane (the primary component of natural gas) and methane leaks from pipelines. These actions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls on our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any greenhouse gas emissions program. These actions could also increase the demand for natural gas, causing increased natural gas prices, thereby adversely affecting our operations. Further, our current regulatory rate structure or long-term customer contracts may not necessarily allow us to recover all costs incurred to comply with new environmental requirements. The inability to fully recover such costs in a timely manner could adversely affect our financial results. Site Cleanup and Contamination Environmental, health, safety, and other laws, regulations and other requirements also impose obligations to remediate contaminated properties or to pay for the cost of such remediation, often by parties that did not actually cause the contamination. We are generally responsible for on-site liabilities, and in some cases off-site liabilities, associated with the environmental condition of our assets, including power generating facilities and electric transmission and distribution assets that we have acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. In connection with acquisitions, we may obtain or require indemnification against some environmental liabilities. If we incur a material liability, or the other party to a transaction fails to meet its indemnification obligations, we could suffer material losses. We have established reserves to recognize our estimated obligations for known remediation liabilities, but such estimates may change materially over time. PacifiCorp is required to fund its portion of the costs of mine reclamation at its coal-mining operations, which include principally site restoration. In addition, future events, such as changes in existing laws or policies or their enforcement, or the discovery of currently unknown contamination, may give rise to additional remediation liabilities that may be material. 31 Recovery of our costs is subject to regulatory review and approval, and the inability to recover costs may adversely affect our financial results. State Rate Proceedings Rates are established for our regulated retail service through state regulatory proceedings. These proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including government bodies and officials, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns, but who generally have the common objective of limiting rate increases. Decisions are subject to appeal, potentially leading to additional uncertainty associated with the approval proceedings. Each state sets retail rates based in part upon the state utility commission’s acceptance of an allocated share of total utility costs. When states adopt different methods to calculate interjurisdictional cost allocations, some costs may not be incorporated into rates of any state. Ratemaking is also generally done on the basis of estimates of normalized costs, so if a given year’s realized costs are higher than normalized costs, rates will not be sufficient to cover those costs. Each state utility commission generally sets rates based on a test year established in accordance with that commission’s policies. Certain states use a future test year or allow for escalation of historical costs, while other states use a historical test year. Use of a historical test year may cause regulatory lag, which results in us incurring costs, including significant new investments, for which recovery through rates is delayed. State regulatory commissions also decide the allowed rates of return MEHC will be given an opportunity to earn on its equity investment in us. In addition, they also decide the allowed levels of expense and investment that they deem are just and reasonable in providing service. The state regulatory commissions may disallow recovery in rates for any costs that do not meet such standard. In Utah and Washington, we are not permitted to pass through energy cost increases in our electric rates without a general rate case. Any significant increase in fuel costs for electricity generation or purchased power costs could have a negative impact on us, despite our efforts to minimize this impact through future general rate cases or the use of hedging instruments. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our financial results. While rate regulation is premised on providing a fair opportunity to obtain a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, the state regulatory commissions do not guarantee that we will be able to realize a reasonable rate of return. FERC Jurisdiction The FERC establishes cost-based tariffs under which we provide transmission services to wholesale markets and retail markets in states that allow retail competition. The FERC also has responsibility for approving both cost- and market-based rates under which we sell electricity at wholesale and has licensing authority over most of our hydroelectric generating facilities. The FERC may impose price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms to address some of the volatility of these markets or may (pursuant to pending or future proceedings) revoke or restrict our ability to sell electricity at market-based rates, which could adversely affect our financial results. The FERC may also impose substantial civil penalties for any non-compliance with the Federal Power Act and the FERC’s rules and orders. We are actively pursuing, developing and constructing new or expanded facilities, the completion and expected cost of which is subject to significant risk, and we have significant funding needs related to our planned capital expenditures. We are engaged in several large construction or expansion projects, including construction and development of wind-powered generating facilities and various capital projects related to generation, transmission and distribution. In addition, in connection with MEHC’s acquisition of us in early 2006, we have committed to undertake several other capital expenditure projects, principally relating to environmental controls, transmission and distribution, renewable generation and other facilities. Including these investments, we expect to incur substantial construction, expansion and other capital-related costs over the next several years. Additional significant investments may be incurred as a result of the issuance and implementation of state and federal RPS, greenhouse gas emissions reduction goals and other environmental requirements. 32 Development and construction of major facilities are subject to substantial risks, including fluctuations in the price and availability of commodities, manufactured goods, equipment, labor and other items over a multi-year construction period, as well as the economic viability of our suppliers. These risks may result in higher than expected costs to complete an asset and place it in service. Such costs may not be recoverable in the regulated rates or market prices we are able to charge our customers. It is also possible that additional generation needs may be obtained through power purchase agreements which could increase long-term purchase obligations and force reliance on the operating performance of a third party. The inability to successfully and timely complete a project, avoid unexpected costs or to recover any such costs could adversely affect our financial results. Furthermore, we depend upon both internal and external sources of liquidity to provide working capital and to fund capital requirements. These sources include revolving credit facilities with a variety of banks and financial institutions. Many large financial institutions have experienced financial difficulties, with several unable to survive as independent institutions with bankruptcy in some cases. It is possible that these financial institutions may be unable to provide previously arranged funding under revolving credit facilities or other arrangements. Economic and credit market environments, such as those experienced in 2008, may adversely affect our ability to obtain liquidity from external sources. If these funds are not available, we may need to postpone or cancel planned capital expenditures. Failure to construct our planned projects could limit opportunities for revenue growth, increase operating costs and adversely affect the reliability of electric service to our customers. For example, if we are not able to expand our existing generating facilities, we may be required to enter into long-term electricity procurement contracts or procure electricity at more volatile and potentially higher prices in the spot markets to support growing retail loads. The current disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain debt financing, draw upon or renew existing credit facilities and have other adverse effects on us. The United States and global credit markets have experienced historic dislocations and liquidity disruptions that have caused financing to be unavailable in many cases. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the bank and capital debt markets, making financing terms less attractive for borrowers who are able to find financing, and in many cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. In addition, many large financial institutions have experienced financial difficulties, with some unable to survive as independent institutions and others filing for bankruptcy protection. These conditions may continue to impact the number of financial institutions able to provide credit. It is also possible that these financial institutions may not be able to provide previously arranged funding under revolving credit facilities or other arrangements like those that we have established as potential sources of liquidity for working capital and to fund capital requirements. For example, our revolving credit facility arrangements have been reduced due to the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bankruptcy filing in September 2008. Continued uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access funds on favorable terms or at all. If we need to access funds but are unable to do so, that failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to credit risk of counterparties and failure of our significant customers to perform under or to renew their contracts, or failure to obtain new customers for expanded capacity, could adversely affect our financial results. We rely on our wholesale customers to fulfill their commitments and pay for energy delivered to them on a timely basis. Adverse economic conditions or other events affecting counterparties with whom we conduct business could impair the ability of these counterparties to pay for services or fulfill their contractual obligations, or cause them to delay or reduce such payments. We depend on these counterparties to remit payments on a timely basis. Some suppliers and customers have been experiencing deteriorating credit quality over the course of 2008, and we continue to monitor these parties to attempt to reduce the impact of any potential counterparty default. Any delay or default in payment or limitation to negotiate alternative arrangements could adversely affect our financial results. 33 We also have certain long-term arrangements for which if we are unable to renew, remarket, or find replacements, our sales volumes and revenues would be exposed to reduction and increased volatility. For example, without long-term transmission or power purchase agreements, we cannot assure that we will be able to operate profitably. Failure to maintain existing long-term agreements or secure new long-term agreements could adversely affect our financial results. The replacement of any existing long-term agreements depends on market conditions and other factors that may be beyond our control. A significant decrease in demand for electricity in the markets served by us would significantly decrease our operating revenues and thereby adversely affect our business and financial results. A sustained decrease in demand for electricity in the markets served by us would significantly reduce our operating revenue and adversely affect our financial results. Factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand include, among others: · a recession or other adverse economic condition, including the significant adverse changes in the economy and credit markets in 2008, which may continue into future periods, that results in a lower level of economic activity or reduced spending by consumers on electricity; · an increase in the market price of electricity or a decrease in the price of other competing forms of energy; · efforts by customers, legislators and regulators to reduce consumption of energy through various conservation and energy efficiency measures and programs; · higher fuel taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that increase, directly or indirectly, the cost of natural gas or the fuel source for electricity generation or that limit the use of natural gas or the generation of electricity from fossil fuels; and · a shift to more energy-efficient or alternative fuel machinery or an improvement in fuel economy, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, legislation mandating higher fuel economy or lower emissions, price differentials, incentives or otherwise. We are subject to market risk, counterparty performance risk and other risks associated with wholesale energy markets. In general, wholesale market risk is the risk of adverse fluctuations in the market price of wholesale electricity and fuel, including natural gas and coal, which is compounded by volumetric changes affecting the availability of or demand for electricity and fuel. We purchase electricity and fuel in the open market or pursuant to short-term or variable-priced contracts as part of our normal operating business. If market prices rise, especially in a time when larger than expected volumes must be purchased at market or short-term prices, we may incur significantly greater expense than anticipated. Likewise, if electricity market prices decline in a period when we are a net seller of electricity in the wholesale market, we will earn less revenue. Wholesale electricity prices in our service areas are influenced primarily by factors throughout the Western United States relating to supply and demand. Those factors include the adequacy of generating capacity, scheduled and unscheduled outages of generating facilities, hydroelectric generation levels, prices and availability of fuel sources for generation, disruptions or constraints to transmission facilities, weather conditions, economic growth and changes in technology. Volumetric changes are caused by unanticipated changes in generation availability and/or changes in customer loads due to the weather, electricity prices, the economy, regulations or customer behavior. Although we plan for resources to meet our current and expected retail and wholesale load obligations, we are a net buyer of electricity during some peak periods and therefore our energy costs may be adversely impacted by market risk. In addition, we may not be able to timely recover all, if any, of those increased costs unless the state regulators authorize such recovery. 34 We are also exposed to risks related to performance of contractual obligations by wholesale suppliers and customers. These risks have increased as a result of the current recessionary environment and many companies’ weakened financial condition. We rely on suppliers to deliver commodities, primarily natural gas, coal and electricity, in accordance with short- and long-term contracts. Failure or delay by suppliers to provide these commodities pursuant to existing contracts could disrupt our ability to deliver electricity and require us to incur additional expenses to meet customer needs. We rely on wholesale customers to take delivery of the energy they have committed to purchase and to pay for the energy on a timely basis. Failure of customers to take delivery may require us to find other customers to take the energy at lower prices than the original customers committed to pay. At certain times of the year, prices paid by us for energy needed to satisfy our customers’ energy needs may exceed the amounts we receive through rates from these customers. If our wholesale customers are unable to pay us for energy or hedging transactions, it may have a significant adverse impact on our cash flows. If the strategy used to minimize these risk exposures is ineffective or if our wholesale customers’ financial condition deteriorates as a result of recent economic conditions, causing them to be unable to pay us, significant losses could result. The deterioration in the credit quality of certain of our wholesale suppliers and customers as a result of the adverse economic changes experienced in 2008 could have an adverse impact on their ability to perform their contractual obligations, which in turn could have an adverse impact on our financial results. Inflation and changes in commodity prices and fuel transportation costs may adversely affect our financial results. Inflation may affect our business by increasing both operating and capital costs. As a result of existing rate agreements and competitive price pressures, we may not be able to pass the costs of inflation on to our customers. If we are unable to manage cost increases or pass them on to our customers, our financial results could be adversely affected. We have a multitude of long-term agreements of varying duration that are material to the operation of our business, such as power purchase, coal and gas supply and transportation contracts, and the failure to maintain, renew or replace these agreements on similar terms and conditions could increase our exposure to changes in prices, thereby increasing the volatility of our financial results. We currently have contracts of varying durations for the supply and transportation of coal for our existing generation capacity, although we obtain some of our coal supply from mines owned or leased by us. When these contracts expire or if they are not honored, we may not be able to purchase or transport coal on terms as favorable as the current contracts. We have similar exposures regarding the market price of natural gas. Changes in the cost of coal or natural gas supply and transportation and changes in the relationship between such costs and the market price of power will affect our financial results. Since the sales price we receive for power may not change at the same rate as our coal or natural gas supply and transportation costs, we may be unable to pass on the changes in costs to our customers. Our financial results may be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate, reliable and affordable access to transmission service. We depend on transmission facilities owned and operated by other utilities to transport electricity to both wholesale and retail markets. If adequate transmission is unavailable, we may be unable to purchase and sell and deliver electricity. Such unavailability could also hinder our ability to provide adequate or economical electricity to our wholesale and retail customers and could adversely impact our financial results. Our operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis and may be adversely affected by weather. The sale of electric power is generally a seasonal business. In the markets in which we operate, customer demand peaks in the winter months due to heating requirements and also peaks in the summer months due to irrigation and cooling needs. Extreme weather conditions such as heat waves or winter storms could cause these seasonal fluctuations to be more pronounced. Periods of low rainfall or snow-pack may also impact electric generation at our hydroelectric generating facilities. Our wind-powered generating facilitates are also climate-contingent resources. 35 As a result, our overall financial results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal and quarterly basis. We have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are mild. Unusually mild weather in the future may adversely affect our financial results through lower revenues or margins. Conversely, unusually extreme weather conditions could increase our costs to provide power and could adversely affect our financial results. Furthermore, during or following periods of low rainfall or snow-pack, we may obtain substantially less electricity from hydroelectric generating facilities and must purchase greater amounts of electricity from the wholesale market or from other sources at market prices. We have added substantial wind-powered generating capacity which is a climate dependent resource resulting in a variable production output that may at times affect the amount of energy available for sale or purchase. The extent of fluctuation in financial results may change depending on a number of factors related to our regulatory environment and contractual agreements, including our ability to recover power costs and terms of the power sale contracts. We are subject to operating uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial results. The operation of complex electric utility (including generation, transmission and distribution) systems that are spread over large geographic areas involves many operating uncertainties and events beyond our control. These potential events include the breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission and distribution lines or other equipment or processes; unscheduled generating facility outages; strikes, lockouts or other labor-related actions; shortage of qualified labor; transmission and distribution system constraints or outages; fuel shortages or interruptions; unavailability of critical equipment, materials and supplies; low water flows and other weather-related impacts; performance below expected levels of output, capacity or efficiency; operator error; and catastrophic events such as severe storms, fires, earthquakes, explosions or mining accidents. A casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. Any of these risks or other operational risks could significantly reduce or eliminate our revenues or significantly increase our expenses. For example, if we cannot operate generating facilities at full capacity due to damage caused by a catastrophic event, our revenues could decrease due to decreased sales and our expenses could increase due to the need to obtain energy from more expensive sources. Further, we self-insure many risks and current and future insurance coverage may not be sufficient to replace lost revenue or cover repair and replacement costs. Any reduction of revenues for such reason, or any other reduction of our revenues or increase in our expenses resulting from the risks described above could adversely affect our financial results. Potential terrorist activities or military or other actions could adversely affect us. The continued threat of terrorism since September 11, 2001 and the impact of military and other actions by the United States and its allies has led to increased political, economic and financial market instability and has subjected our operations to increased risks. The United States government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically including electric utility infrastructure, are potential targets for terrorist organizations. Political, economic or financial market instability or damage to our operating assets or the assets of our customers or suppliers may result in business interruptions, lost revenue, higher commodity prices, disruption in fuel supplies, lower energy consumption and unstable markets, increased security, repair or other costs that may materially adversely affect us in ways that cannot be predicted at this time. Any of these risks could materially affect our financial results. Furthermore, instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital. The insurance industry may change to reflect increased instability in the political, economic and financial markets. As a result, insurance covering risks we typically insure against may decrease in scope and availability, and we may elect to self-insure against many such risks. In addition, the available insurance may have higher deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive policy terms. 36 A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect our access to capital, increase the cost of borrowing or raise energy transaction credit support requirements. Our debt securities and preferred stock are rated investment grade by various rating agencies but may not continue to be rated investment grade in the future. Although none of our outstanding debt has rating-downgrade triggers that would accelerate a repayment obligation, a credit rating downgrade would increase our borrowing costs and commitment fees on our revolving credit agreements and other financing arrangements, perhaps significantly. In addition, we would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and the potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease. Further, access to the commercial paper market, our principal source of short-term borrowings, could be significantly limited, resulting in higher interest costs. The commercial paper market has been disrupted as a result of the recent economic conditions, which could also limit our ability to access commercial paper. Most of our large customers, suppliers and counterparties require sufficient creditworthiness in order to enter into transactions, particularly in the wholesale energy markets. If our credit ratings were to decline, especially below investment grade, financing costs and borrowings would likely increase because counterparties may require a letter of credit, collateral in the form of cash-related instruments or some other security as a condition to further transactions with us. We have a substantial amount of debt, which could adversely affect our ability to obtain future financing and limit our expenditures. As of December 31, 2008, we had $5.6 billion in total debt securities outstanding. Our principal financing agreements contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to borrow funds, and any issuance of debt securities requires prior authorization from certain of our state regulatory commissions. We expect that we will need to supplement cash generated from operations and availability under committed credit facilities with new issuances of long-term debt. However, if market conditions are not favorable for the issuance of long-term debt, or if an issuance of long-term debt would exceed contractual or regulatory limits, we may postpone planned capital expenditures, or take other actions, to the extent those expenditures are not fully covered by cash from operations, borrowings under committed credit facilities or equity contributions from MEHC. MEHC may exercise its significant influence over us in a manner that would benefit MEHC to the detriment of our creditors and preferred stockholders. MEHC, through its subsidiary, owns all of our common stock and generally has control over the election of our directors and all decisions requiring shareholder approval. In circumstances involving a conflict of interest between MEHC and our creditors and preferred stockholders, MEHC could exercise its control in a manner that would benefit MEHC to the detriment of our creditors and preferred stockholders. Poor performance of plan and fund investments and other factors impacting the pension plan, the other postretirement benefits plan and mine reclamation costs could unfavorably impact our cash flows and liquidity. Costs of providing our non-contributory defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefits plans depend upon a number of factors, including the rates of return on plan assets, the level and nature of benefits provided, discount rates, the interest rates used to measure required minimum funding levels, changes in benefit design, changes in laws and government regulation and our required or voluntary contributions made to the plans. Our pension and other postretirement benefits plans are in underfunded positions. The recent declines in the global financial markets have exacerbated our plans’ underfunded positions. Even with sustained growth in the investments over future periods to increase the value of these plans’ assets, we will likely be required to make significant cash contributions to fund these plans. Furthermore, the recently enacted Pension Protection Act of 2006 may result in more volatility in the amount and timing of future contributions. Similarly, funds dedicated to mine reclamation are also invested in equity and fixed income securities, and poor performance of these investments will reduce the amount of funds available for their intended purpose, which would require us to make additional cash contributions. Such cash funding obligations, which are also impacted by the other factors described above, could have a material impact on our liquidity by reducing our cash flows. 37 We are involved in numerous legal proceedings, the outcomes of which are uncertain and could adversely affect our financial results. We are party to numerous legal proceedings. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties, and we cannot predict the outcome of individual matters. It is possible that the final resolution of some of the matters in which we are involved could result in additional payments in excess of established reserves over an extended period of time and in amounts that could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Similarly, it is also possible that the terms of resolution could require that we change business practices and procedures, which could also have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Further, litigation could result in the imposition of financial penalties or injunctions which could limit our ability to take certain desired actions or the denial of needed permits, licenses or regulatory authority to conduct our business, including the siting or permitting of facilities. Any of these outcomes could adversely affect our financial results. Potential changes in accounting standards might cause us to revise our financial results and disclosure in the future, which may change the way analysts measure our business or financial performance. Accounting irregularities discovered in the past few years in various industries have caused regulators and legislators to take a renewed look at accounting practices, financial disclosures, companies’ relationships with their independent auditors and the accounting for defined benefit plans. Because it is still unclear what laws or regulations will ultimately develop, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any future changes in accounting regulations or practices in general with respect to public companies or the energy industry or in our operations specifically. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the FERC or the SEC could enact new or revised accounting standards or FERC orders that might impact how we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. 38 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 