Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below in evaluating our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we and our principal business face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also impair our operations and business, and in particular MSV. If we do not successfully address any of the risks described below, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and business, and the trading price of our common stock may decline. We cannot assure you that we will successfully address these risks. Risks Associated with Our Next Generation Business Plan We need substantial additional financing to develop and construct our next generation integrated network, however such financing might not be available or may be restricted under the terms of our existing financings. We have estimated that the remaining cost to develop and construct the two satellite components of our integrated network in the United States and Canada, including the costs of the satellites, their launch, launch insurance and associated ground segment will be significant, and are significantly more than our currently available resources. In addition, we will require significant funds to construct the terrestrial component of our network. We plan to pursue, with a partner, a top 50 market terrestrial footprint and have estimated that the total deployment of the terrestrial portion of our network could be a multi-billion dollar undertaking depending on the choice of air interface technology, the scope of the terrestrial build within each market and the targeted service offering (limited mobile, portable or fully mobile). Our costs could be greater than our current estimates. For example, if we elect to defer payments under our satellite construction contract, and/or if we exercise certain options to buy additional satellites or other equipment or services, our costs for the satellite component of our network will increase, possibly significantly. The cost to develop devices could be greater, perhaps significantly, than our current estimates, depending on our ability to attract distribution partners in both the satellite and terrestrial spaces. Also, the cost to build the terrestrial component of the network could be greater, perhaps significantly, than our current estimates, depending on changing costs of supplies, market conditions, and other factors over which we will have no control. Our projections assume that a portion of the remaining costs associated with constructing the satellite and terrestrial components of our next generation integrated network will be borne in part by one or more technology and strategic partners. If we are not able to enter into agreements with third parties to cover such costs, or if such funding sources are not able to cover such costs, our funding requirements will be significantly greater than we currently anticipate. We have not entered into any such agreements, and entering into such agreements in the future is not assured. In addition, a delay in our selection of a satellite air interface technology could result in a reduction in our near-term revenue projections, which would increase our overall financing need. Likewise, selection of an air interface technology that is not consistent with the strategic plans of potential telecommunications partners could adversely affect our ability to attract strategic capital and partnerships. We may raise future funds by selling debt and equity securities, by obtaining loans or other credit lines from banks or other financial institutions. The type, timing and terms of financing we may select will depend upon our cash needs, the availability of other financing sources, the prevailing conditions in the financial markets and the restrictions contained in our current and any future indebtedness. The terms of our current indebtedness include significant limitations on additional debt, including amount, terms, access to security, duration, among other factors, and impose limitations on the structure of strategic transactions. 20 Table of Contents Currently, there is little activity in our equity securities, which limits our ability to raise funding through public equity issuances. Events beyond our control could negatively impact our ability to access the capital markets. Recent turmoil in the United States credit markets caused by downgrades in mortgage-backed securities has made raising capital more challenging. The potential for a weakening economy in the United States also has made raising capital more challenging and could have a negative impact on our ability to fund our operations. The sale of our 11.2% ownership stake in TerreStar Networks represents a potential source of capital. Given recent capital market volatility and the overall decline in the stock price of its parent, TerreStar Corporation, the ability to sell our ownership stake in TerreStar Networks, on favorable terms, if at all, is not assured. If we fail to obtain necessary financing on a timely basis, our satellite construction, launch, or other events necessary to conduct our business could be materially delayed, or our costs could materially increase; we could default on our commitments to our satellite construction or launch contractors, creditors or other third parties, leading to termination of construction or inability to launch our satellites; we may not be able to launch our next generation integrated network as planned and may have to discontinue operations or seek a purchaser for MSV’s business or assets. MSV could lose its FCC or Industry Canada licenses or its international rights if it fails to achieve required performance milestones. Our substantial debt obligations could impair our liquidity and financial condition. We are a highly leveraged company. At December 31, 2007, we had approximately $589 million of long-term debt. Our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund operations and significant planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Net cash used in operations in 2007 was $24 million and capital expenditures were approximately $240 million. Our substantial indebtedness and debt service obligations could have important consequences, including the following: • limiting our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; • making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry; reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes by requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to many of our competitors who are less leveraged than we are. In March 2006, MSV issued Senior Secured Discount Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $750 million at maturity, and generated gross proceeds of $436 million. Interest on the notes will accrete from the issue date at a rate of 14.0% per annum, until they reach full principal amount at April 1, 2010 (the “Senior Secured Discount Notes”). Following April 1, 2010, interest will be payable semi-annually in arrears in cash at a rate of 14% per annum, with the first such payment being due on October 1, 2010. The Senior Secured Discount Notes will mature on April 1, 2013. The Senior Secured Discount Notes are secured by substantially all of our and our subsidiaries’ assets. In January 2008, MSV issued notes to Harbinger, in an aggregate principal amount of $150 million (the “Harbinger Notes”). The Harbinger Notes bear interest at a rate of 16.5 %, payable in cash or in-kind, at MSV’s option until December 15, 2011, and thereafter payable in cash. The Harbinger Notes mature on May 1, 2013. If we are successful in raising additional financing, a significant portion of future financing may consist of debt securities. As a result, we may be even more highly leveraged. If additional funds are raised through the incurrence of indebtedness, we may incur significant interest charges and become subject to various restrictions and covenants that could limit our ability to respond to market conditions, provide for unanticipated capital investments or take advantage of business opportunities. 21 Table of Contents The market for our planned service is new and unproven and the success of our next generation business will depend on market acceptance. Other than satellite radio, we are not aware of any integrated (i.e., combined satellite and terrestrial) wireless service in commercial operation. Neither we, nor any other company, have developed an integrated next generation network. Our business plan contemplates that a significant portion of our revenues will be derived from strategic partners. To date, neither we nor MSV have entered into any strategic partnerships with respect to distribution of our next generation integrated network. As a result, we can estimate only with a partial level of certainty the potential demand for such services and the degree to which we will meet that demand. Furthermore, there may not be sufficient demand to enable MSV, or additional costs that do not allow MSV, to earn sufficient revenues, achieve sufficient cash flow or record a profit. Among other things, end user acceptance of our next generation integrated service will depend upon: • whether we provide integrated wireless services consistent with market demand; • the relative attractiveness of our service offerings to our anticipated partners; • the cost and availability of user equipment whose form factor is little different from standard wireless devices, but incorporates the new technology required to operate on our network; • federal, state, local and international regulations affecting the operation of satellite networks and wireless systems; • whether competitors develop new and alternative next generation technologies; and • general and local economic conditions. If we cannot gain market acceptance for our planned products and services, our business will be significantly harmed. We have made, and will continue to make, significant capital investments to generate demand for MSV’s services. Accordingly, any material miscalculation with respect to our operating strategy or business plan will harm our business. We will depend on one or more third parties to incorporate our next generation technology into their consumer offerings, and such third parties may not be successful or effective in their use of our next generation technology. We do not plan to manufacture or sell next generation end-user devices to consumers. The success of our network will depend on partnerships with third parties that incorporate our next generation technology into their service and product offerings. In particular, we will not produce next generation wireless devices for sale to wireless consumers but instead will need to work with our future, not yet identified partners and customers to apply our next generation technology to standard wireless devices that they in turn market. If these future partners are not successful in incorporating our next generation technology or marketing devices compatible with our network, our revenues would be less than expected, and our business would suffer. We will depend on one or more third party contractors to construct the terrestrial base station component of our next generation integrated network. We currently plan to contract with one or more third parties to construct the terrestrial component of our next generation integrated network. Our success in implementing our next generation integrated network and in penetrating our targeted vertical markets will depend, to a large extent, on the efforts of these third party vendors. 22 Table of Contents The development and rollout of the terrestrial network by these third parties may be subject to unforeseen delays, cost overruns, regulatory changes, engineering and technological changes and other factors, some of which may be outside of our control. If we are not able to enter into contracting relationships and construct the terrestrial component of our next generation integrated network, we may not be able to implement our business plan. Failure to develop and supply end-user devices to customers in a timely manner will negatively impact our revenues. We will rely on third party manufacturers and their distributors to manufacture and distribute next generation devices. Next generation devices are not yet available, and we and third party vendors may be unable to develop and produce enough affordable next generation devices in a timely manner to permit the widespread introduction of service. If we, our customers or our manufacturers fail to develop devices that are available for timely commercial sale at affordable prices, the launch of our next generation service would be delayed, our revenues would be less than expected, and our business would suffer. Furthermore, progress by these third-parties may be hindered by our strategic decisions or determinations to delay selections, with respect to technologies for various aspects of the network and end-user products, some of which may depend upon or be modified based on strategic partnerships that have not yet been entered into. Delays in those decisions will have a direct impact on the time to market for our next-generation services, our transition plans for current customers and our revenues. Our current customers may migrate away from our service in advance of our termination of existing service. Our current customers may not migrate to our next generation devices and services. To fully transition to our next generation services, all current revenue generating services may terminate in the future. We currently expect all current revenue generating services to terminate in 2011. We may modify this expectation to an earlier date, or later date, in the future. In advance of termination of current services, our customers may migrate away from our current and future services. Upon termination of service our customers will be forced to select new services, including our next generation services. There is no assurance that our next generation services will be selected by our customers. Our integrated wireless network will depend on the development and integration of complex technologies in a satellite configuration that might not work. Our next generation integrated network will require new applications of existing technology, complex integration of different technologies and the development of new technologies. We will have to integrate a number of sophisticated satellite and other wireless technologies that typically have not been integrated in the past, and some of which are not yet fully developed, before we can begin offering our next generation service. In order for our service to be received by traditional consumer devices, additional components and software will need to be added to such devices to adjust for the L-band frequencies as well as satellite communications. Although we intend to test the components of our next generation integrated network, we cannot confirm the ability of the system to function until we have deployed a substantial portion of our next generation integrated network. There could also be delays in the planned development, integration and operation of the components of our next generation integrated network. If the technological integration of our next generation integrated network is not completed in a timely and effective manner, our business would be harmed. In our next generation integrated network, we will seek to develop and deploy network management techniques so that mobile devices used on our network will be able to seamlessly transition between satellite mode and terrestrial mode. MSV has stated that it intends to develop such techniques primarily by adapting existing techniques used in PCS/cellular systems and digital/analog systems. However, such techniques have not been deployed before in a combined satellite/terrestrial two-way mobile communications system, and there can be no assurances that we will be successful in developing such techniques or deploying them in its next generation integrated network in a cost effective or timely manner. If we are not able to develop or deploy such techniques, mobile devices used on our network may not be able to seamlessly transition between satellite and terrestrial modes, and this may make our next generation integrated network less attractive to potential partners and end-user customers. 23 Table of Contents Our next generation satellites are subject to possible construction and delivery delays, the occurrence of which could materially and adversely affect our business. Our next generation satellites are subject to possible construction and delivery delays. The manufacture of such satellites is technically complex, and delays could result from a variety of causes. Such causes could include failure of third-party vendors to perform as anticipated and changes in the technical specifications of the satellite, including increases in weight or mass that could limit our ability to utilize our primary launch alternative resulting in delays if our alternative provider does not have schedule availability during our desired launch window. Alternatively, such changes to technical specifications could limit our ability to move to an alternate launch provider if our primary provider experiences material schedule delays. There can be no assurance that delivery of our next generation satellites will be timely, which may hinder the introduction of our planned next generation integrated network. Any delay could also make it more difficult for us to secure desired distribution partnerships. During any period of delay, we would continue to have significant cash requirements that could materially increase the aggregate amount of funding MSV needs. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, during periods of delay. A delay could also require rescheduling of the anticipated launch date, and another launch slot may not be available within a reasonable period of time. In addition, a delay in satellite system operations could also result in revocation of our regulatory approvals and our international rights. Our satellites could be damaged or destroyed during launch or deployment, fail to achieve their designated orbital location after launch or experience significant launch delays. A percentage of satellites never become operational because of, among other factors, launch failure, satellite destruction or damage during launch, improper orbital placement and/or the failure of antennas to fully deploy. Launch failure rates vary depending on the particular launch vehicle and contractor. Even launch vehicles with good track records experience some launch failures, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to launch our satellites on vehicles with higher success rates. If one or more launches or deployments fail, we will suffer significant delays that will be damaging to our business, we will incur significant additional costs associated with the failed launches, and our revenue generating activities will be delayed. We cannot assure you that our satellite launches or deployments will be successful. The deployment of large antennas, such as the antennas on our next generation satellites, which are larger than most commercial satellites, pose additional risks during deployment. Even if launched into orbit, a satellite may fail to enter into its designated orbital location, or we may use more fuel than planned to place a satellite into its orbital location and, as a result, may reduce the overall useful life of the satellite. In addition, a delay in satellite system operations could also result in revocation of our regulatory approvals and our international rights. Satellites have a limited useful life and premature failure of our satellites could damage our business. During and after their launch, all satellites are subject to equipment failures, malfunctions and other problems. If one of our satellites were to fail prematurely, it likely would affect the quality of our service, substantially delay the commencement or interrupt the continuation of our service and harm our business and could impact our licenses. This harm to our business would continue until we either extend service to our customers on another satellite or build and launch additional satellites. Each of the MSAT-1 and MSAT-2 satellites has in the past experienced malfunctions and neither operates at full capacity. Our satellites could experience future malfunctions at any time, which could damage their ability to serve our customers, harm our reputation in the marketplace, reduce 24 Table of Contents the expected useful life of the satellites and possibly adversely affect our government approvals. There can be no assurance that our existing satellites will remain operational until such time as we launch our next generation satellites. Any gap could have a material adverse effect on our business and could result in the loss of licenses. Our ability to generate revenue depends on the lives of our existing and next generation satellites. Each satellite has a limited useful life. A number of factors could decrease the useful lives of our satellites to less than what is currently expected, including, without limitation: • defects in construction; • faster than expected degradation of solar panels; • durability of component parts; • loss of fuel on board; • higher than anticipated use of fuel to maintain the satellite’s orbital location or higher than anticipated use of fuel during orbit raising following launch; • random failure of satellite components that are not protected by back-up units; • electromagnetic storms; and • collisions with other objects in space. Limitations on our spectrum and services are included in current arrangements with partners and further limitations may be included in future arrangements with these and other partners. Our arrangements with partners may constrain the quantity and type of current-generation devices that can be supported in the future. As a result, our current customers could be forced to transition to next-generation devices or terminate service with us, negatively impacting our revenues. Our arrangements with partners may place limits on the amount of spectrum available for next-generation satellite services that may negatively impact our revenues. Interference standards and frequency plans that could result from future arrangements with partners could adversely impact capacity on our next generation satellites, negatively impacting our revenues. Damage to our satellites may not be fully covered by insurance. We intend to purchase launch and in-orbit insurance policies for our next generation satellites from global space insurance underwriters. If certain material adverse changes in market conditions for full in-orbit insurance were to make it commercially unreasonable for us to maintain full in-orbit insurance, we could forego such insurance. Other adverse changes in insurance market conditions may substantially increase the premiums we will have to pay for such insurance or may preclude us from fully insuring its loss. If the launch of our next generation satellite system is a total or partial failure, our insurance may not fully cover our losses, and these failures may also cause insurers to include additional exclusions in our insurance policies when they come up for renewal. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available to construct, launch and insure a replacement satellite or, if available, will be available on terms favorable to us. We do not expect to buy insurance to cover, and would not have protection against, business interruption, loss of business or similar losses. Also, any insurance we obtain will likely contain certain customary exclusions and material change conditions that would limit our coverage. We do not have insurance with respect to the existing MSAT satellites. 25 Table of Contents Delays in deployment of our terrestrial network due to limited tower availability, local zoning approvals or adequate telecommunications transport capacity would negatively impact our revenues. Our business strategy includes the deployment of a terrestrial network. Tower sites and authorizations in some desirable areas may be very costly and time intensive to obtain. If we are unable to obtain tower space, local zoning approvals or adequate telecommunications transport capacity to develop our network in a timely fashion, the launch of our next generation integrated network would be delayed, our revenues would be less than expected and our business would suffer. Our planned terrestrial network or other ground facilities could be damaged by natural catastrophes or man-made disasters. Since our planned terrestrial network will be attached to buildings, towers and other structures around the country, an earthquake, tornado, flood or other catastrophic event or other man-made disaster or vandalism could damage our network, interrupt our service and harm our business in the affected area. We will not have replacement or fully redundant facilities that can be used to assume the functions of our terrestrial network in the event of a catastrophic event. Any damage to our terrestrial network would likely result in degradation of our service for some subscribers and could result in complete loss of service in some affected areas. Temporary disruptions could also damage our reputation and the demand for our services. We may be unable to achieve our business and financial objectives because the communications industry is highly competitive. In seeking market acceptance for our next generation services, we will encounter competition from many sources, including: • existing satellite services from other operators; • conventional terrestrial wireless services; • traditional wireline voice and high-speed data offerings; • terrestrial land-mobile and fixed services; and • next generation integrated services that may be offered in the future by other networks operating in the S-band, L-band or Big LEO band. The communications industry includes major domestic and international companies, many of which have financial, technical, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources substantially greater than we do and which provide a wider range of services than will be provided by us. While we have stated that we believe our services will be complementary to terrestrial wireless services, we may be adversely affected by competition from companies that provide services using existing wireless technologies. We may also face competition from companies using new technologies and new integrated networks in the future. For instance, the FCC has authorized ICO and TMI Communications to use radio frequencies for mobile satellite services within the S-band. TMI Communications transferred its FCC S-band authorization to TerreStar Networks and its Industry Canada S-band authorization to TerreStar Networks (Canada) Inc or TerreStar Canada. Although these potential competitors currently have no operations in this band, they are planning to launch integrated networks similar to those envisioned by us. Through MSV’s subsidiary, ATC Technologies LLC, MSV has also granted TerreStar a license to use MSV’s intellectual property for the development of TerreStar’s network. TerreStar and ICO have announced plans to launch S-band satellites in November 2008 and March 2008, respectively, both in advance of the estimated launches of MSV’s satellites. Additionally both TerreStar and ICO submitted applications for ATC authority in 2007. Failure to offer next generation integrated services that compete effectively with potential competitors such as TerreStar and ICO would have an adverse impact on our revenues, profitability and liquidity. We will also face competition with respect to entering into strategic partnerships. 26 Table of Contents We and our partners must continue to identify, develop and market innovative products or enhance existing products on a timely basis to maintain our profit margins and our competitive position. Our future growth may depend on our ability to gauge the direction of commercial and technological progress in key markets and on our ability to fund and successfully develop and market products. Our competitors may have access to technologies not available to us, which may enable them to provide communications services of greater interest to end users, or at a more competitive cost. We may not be able to develop new products or technology, either alone or with third parties, or license any additional necessary intellectual property rights from third parties on a commercially competitive basis. The satellite and wireless industries are both characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product innovations, changes in customer requirements and expectations and evolving industry standards. If we or our partners are unable to keep pace with these changes, our business may be unsuccessful. Products using new technologies, or emerging industry standards, could make our technologies obsolete. If we or our partners fail to keep pace with the evolving technological innovations in our markets on a competitive basis, our financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected. Demand for our services may not grow or be accepted in particular geographic markets, for particular types of services, or during particular time periods. A lack of demand could adversely affect our ability to sell our services, enter into strategic partnerships or develop and successfully market new services. In addition, demand patterns shift over time, and consumer preferences may not favor the services we plan to offer. An economic downturn or changes in consumer spending could negatively affect our results of operations and our access to capital. We expect the primary consumer of our next generation services will be customers of our distribution partners and customers within certain vertical markets (for example, public safety, fleet management and consumer telematics). In the event that the United States or Canada experience an economic downturn or spending by end customers drops, our business may be negatively affected. We may not be able to protect our proprietary information and intellectual property rights, which could limit the growth of our business and impact our ability to compete. As of February 4, 2008, MSV has filed more than 300 patent applications (each application being filed in the United States and in several countries abroad), is the owner of 90 issued U.S. and numerous foreign patents covering the fundamental principles of our next generation integrated technology. There is no assurance that the patents for which MSV has applied will be issued or, if issued, will be sufficient to fully protect our technology. In addition, there can be no assurance that any patents issued or licensed to MSV will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary technology and other trade secrets. While it is our policy to enter into confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties to protect our proprietary expertise and other trade secrets, these agreements may not be enforceable, or, even if legally enforceable, we may not have adequate remedies for breaches of such agreements. The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary technology or trade secrets could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins or loss of market share. 27 Table of Contents We may be unable to determine when third parties are using our intellectual property rights without our authorization. The undetected or unremedied use of our intellectual property rights or the legitimate development or acquisition of intellectual property similar to ours by third parties could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have as a result of our intellectual property, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. If we must take legal action to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights, any suits or proceedings could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and our management’s attention and could have material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, regardless of the final outcome of such legal action. Despite our efforts to safeguard and maintain our intellectual property rights, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so or that our competitors will not independently develop or patent technologies equivalent or superior to our technologies. A failure to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. MSV has stated that it believes that third parties may infringe upon its intellectual property now and in the future. Third parties may claim that our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages, or prevent us from making, using, or selling our products. Other parties may have patents or pending patent applications relating to integrated wireless technology that may later mature into patents. Although we do not intend to, we may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Such parties may bring suit against us for patent or other infringement of intellectual property rights. If our products or services are found to infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others, we may need to obtain licenses from those parties or substantially re-engineer our products or processes in order to avoid infringement. We may not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or be able to re-engineer our products successfully. Moreover, if we are found by a court of law to infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to pay substantial damages or be enjoined from making, using, or selling the infringing products or technology. We could also be enjoined from making, using, or selling the allegedly infringing products or technology, pending the final outcome of the suit. Our business could be harmed if we cannot attract and retain key personnel. Our success depends, in large part, upon the continuing contributions of our key technical, marketing, sales and management personnel. We generally do not enter into employment agreements with our employees for fixed terms and do not maintain “key-executive” insurance on any of our employees. The loss of the services of several key employees within a short period of time could harm our business and our future prospects. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional management and technical personnel required in connection with the growth and development of our business. Competition for such personnel is intense, and if we fail to retain or attract such personnel our business could suffer. We have entered into arrangements with certain executives which provide for payments upon a change of control, as defined in those agreements. 28 Table of Contents Regulatory Risks Associated with Us We may not be able to coordinate successfully with other L-band satellite system operators to access and use the full amount of L-band spectrum we currently believe we will be able to utilize. We are required to coordinate the use of our satellites as part of the satellite registration process of the International Telecommunication Union (“ITU”). With respect to the primary frequencies used by commercial GEOs, the ITU rules grant rights to member states (which are the national governments party to the ITU treaty) on a “first-in-time, first-in-right” basis and set forth a process for protecting earlier-registered satellite systems from interference from later-registered satellite systems. To comply with these rules, we must coordinate the operation of our satellites with other satellites. The coordination process may require us to modify our proposed coverage areas, or satellite design or transmission plans, in order to eliminate or minimize interference with other satellites or ground-based facilities. In addition, while the ITU’s rules require later-in-time systems to coordinate their operations with us, we cannot guarantee that other operators will conduct their operations so as to avoid transmitting any signals that would cause harmful interference to the signals that we, or our customers, transmit. Since MSV’s system became operational in 1996, its spectrum access in North America has been governed by a multi-lateral agreement referred to as the Mexico City Memorandum of Understanding (“Mexico City MoU”) and by bilateral agreements. Five national administrations, the United States, Canada, Mexico, Russia and the United Kingdom, are party to the Mexico City MoU. We operate our satellites under the auspices of the United States and Canada. Accordingly, we must coordinate with operators and their administrations to operate in the L-band and to reconfigure the L-band. Since 1999, there has been no new, comprehensive, spectrum sharing agreement among all the satellite system operators represented by the five administrations and we have not completed coordination of our new satellites. Our recent agreement with Inmarsat, to the extent it is accepted by our Administrations, is a significant step to completing the coordination of our new satellites, providing substantial spectrum access, and creating additional flexibility for ancillary terrestrial operations. At the same time, the agreement with Inmarsat includes certain limitations on our system operations in order to facilitate spectrum reuse by Inmarsat; these limitations may have an adverse impact on the extent that we are technically able to provide certain satellite and terrestrial services and, as a result, the revenues we are able to generate from those services. Approval of other administrations is also required before coordination is complete. Additionally, the initial international frequency coordination of our system was done for narrowband services and air interfaces. Newer broadband services and air interfaces require larger blocks of contiguous spectrum. While some of our L-band spectrum is already in sufficiently large contiguous blocks to permit the offering of such new formats, we are trying to increase the extent to which our spectrum is contiguous. Our recent agreement with Inmarsat, to the extent it is accepted by our Administrations, is a significant step in the process of rebanding to provide for additional contiguity. We would obtain further, substantial benefit from successful negotiations with the Mexican operator and Administration to further reconfigure the L-band spectrum. In the absence of an arrangement with the Mexican operator and Administration, we may pursue other means of further reconfiguring the L-band spectrum. It is uncertain whether we will be able to successfully complete such negotiations at a reasonable economic and technical price or be able to otherwise reconfigure the L-band spectrum .. The failure to reconfigure the L-band into larger blocks of contiguous spectrum will prevent us from maximizing the efficiency and capacity of our next generation integrated network. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that the ITU will not change its rules in the future in a way that could limit or preclude our use of some or all of our existing or future orbital locations or frequencies. We may not be able to secure the return of certain spectrum we loaned to Inmarsat. In 1999 and 2003, and consistent with the Mexico City MoU, MSV and MSV Canada loaned approximately 3 MHz of L-band spectrum to Inmarsat for its temporary use (“Original Loan”). Our recent 29 Table of Contents agreement with Inmarsat, to the extent that it is accepted by our Administrations, resolves a dispute regarding the return of the loaned spectrum, including the possibility of arbitration under certain circumstances. In addition, pursuant to the recent agreement, we are temporarily loaning Inmarsat additional spectrum (“New Loan”). There is no assurance that we will receive the return of the Original Loan and/or New Loan, whether through arbitration or otherwise, and certain provisions of our recent agreement with Inmarsat provides that upon the occurrence of certain events the loaned spectrum would become integrated with the agreed upon band plans for operation and would not be separately subject to return. Our service may cause or be subject to interference, and we may have to limit our services to avoid harmful interference As a satellite provider and ATC system operator, we are required to provide our satellite and ATC service without causing harmful interference to other spectrum users and we must accept some interference from other spectrum users. This requirement may potentially hinder the operation, limit the deployment or add additional cost to our satellite and/or ATC system and may, in certain cases, subject our users to a degradation in service quality. Although we have agreements with certain spectrum users in neighboring spectrum bands and within the L-band to avoid harmful interference, there is no assurance that these agreements will be sufficient or that additional interference issues with other systems will not occur. The ultimate resolution of pending FCC proceedings could materially affect our ability to develop and offer ATC services and have a material adverse effect on our next generation business plans. Prior to entering into the Cooperation Agreement in December 2007, Inmarsat challenged two FCC orders that may impact our ability to maximize the efficiency of our ATC in the L-band: the November 2004 Application Approval, which granted MSV’s ATC license, and the February 2005 Order establishing revised rules for ATC. Inmarsat also objected to MSV’s pending 2005 application for a modified ATC license to take advantage of the new ATC rules. Pursuant to the Cooperation Agreement (see Government Regulation—L-band Coordination) and subject to the coordination agreement being accepted by the relevant administrations of the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, Inmarsat has withdrawn these filings. If these challenges are decided unfavorably to us, it may impede or preclude our ability to deploy and operate our proposed next generation integrated network. We need additional regulatory approvals before we can operate ATC. Pursuant to the Cooperation Agreement, MSV has filed an application with the FCC to provide authority for additional flexibility for operation of ATC. Inmarsat had opposed an earlier pending application by MSV to modify its ATC authorization to provide additional flexibility. Pursuant to the Cooperation Agreement (see Government Regulation—L-band Coordination) and subject to the coordination agreement being accepted by the relevant administrations of the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, Inmarsat has agreed to support this application for additional flexibility for operation of ATC. In addition, MSV will need further regulatory approvals before it can operate ATC, including a blanket license for its user terminals and FCC certification of its user terminals and base stations. Any difficulty in obtaining these approvals may delay the commencement of operation of our new system. MSV Canada does not yet have authority from Industry Canada to operate an ATC in Canada. We cannot provide any assurance if or when we will obtain any of these approvals. A 2002 decision could be construed to limit a portion of our operations to using no more than 20 MHz of L-band spectrum. In a 2002 decision, the FCC granted our subsidiary, MSV Sub, a license to use up to 20 MHz of L-band spectrum on MSAT-2. That decision also states that spectrum acquired under a future merger between our corporate 30 Table of Contents predecessor and TMI Communications, which formerly held both the Industry Canada and FCC L-band authorizations associated with the MSAT-1 satellite, would be included within the 20 MHz limit. MSV filed a petition for clarification and partial reconsideration of that decision because MSV had already been established pursuant to an FCC order in 2001 that had authorized MSV to use TMI Communications’ spectrum without imposing such spectrum limitations. Under the most recent SSA developed pursuant to the Mexico City MoU, MSV was assigned less than 20 MHz of L-band spectrum for the United States satellites. We believe that, even if limited to 20 MHz of spectrum on the United States satellites, we would continue to be able to use all of the coordinated spectrum (approximately 30 MHz) on MSV Canada’s satellite and on our integrated network, as well as up to 20 MHz of coordinated spectrum on MSV’s satellite. We cannot be sure how or when the FCC will dispose of MSV’s petition, but subsequent FCC decisions suggest that spectrum licensed to MSV Canada is not included within the 20 MHz limit. If the FCC decides adversely to MSV, our United States licensed L-band satellites (MSAT-2 and MSV-1) could be limited to a maximum of 20 MHz, which could reduce our ability to offer certain new services. Failure to comply with FCC and Industry Canada rules and regulations could damage our business. FCC and Industry Canada rules and regulations, and the terms of our satellite authorizations and ATC license from the FCC, require us to meet certain conditions, such as satellite construction and launch milestones, maintenance of satellite coverage of all fifty states, Puerto Rico, and the United States Virgin Islands and the provision of an integrated service offering. Non-compliance by us with these or other conditions, including other FCC or Industry Canada gating criteria, could result in fines, additional license conditions, license revocation, or other adverse FCC or Industry Canada actions. In April 2006, the FCC’s International Bureau found that the MSV had met the initial milestone for its MSV-1 satellite (entering into a non-contingent satellite construction contract). In May 2006, Inmarsat asked the International Bureau to reconsider its decision and to declare the license for MSV-1 null and void. Pursuant to the Cooperation Agreement (see Government Regulation—L-band Coordination) and subject to the coordination agreement being accepted by the relevant administrations of the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, Inmarsat has withdrawn this filing. If the FCC concludes that we failed to satisfy this or any other milestone set forth in our license, the FCC may declare the license for MSV-1 null and void. In a September 2006 decision, the FCC granted MSV authority to slightly exceed the 25% indirect foreign ownership limit specified in the Communications Act. To comply with the amount of indirect foreign ownership approved by the FCC, we must monitor the extent to which our stock is owned or voted by non-U.S. citizens. The foreign ownership restrictions limit our ability to be owned by non-U.S. citizens absent prior FCC approval. Exceeding the amount of foreign ownership approved by the FCC in the September 2006 decision without securing prior approval from the FCC may subject MSV to fines, forfeitures, or revocation of our FCC licenses. In March 2007, we filed a Petition for Declaratory Ruling with the FCC seeking approval for MSV’s current level of indirect foreign ownership. In October 2007, we provided additional information in response to the FCC’s request for further ownership information regarding certain investors. On November 6 and 26, 2007, we amended that filing. On January 25 and 29, 2008, we further amended our filing to provide updated ownership information and to respond to informal staff requests. On January 11, 2008, Harbinger tendered a petition to the FCC seeking expedited action on a declaratory ruling to permit Harbinger to raise their interest in the Company through open market share acquisitions to a level in excess of that previously approved by the FCC. That petition was amended on January 16, 2008, and MSV and the Company joined in the petition in a further amendment submitted on January 17, 2008. On January 29, 2008, Harbinger tendered to the FCC a petition seeking permanent authority to make the level of acquisitions specified in their January 11 petition. We can not provide any assurance that the FCC will approve the increased levels of foreign ownership proposed by MSV or Harbinger. There is also no assurance that foreign persons or entities have not acquired or will not acquire additional shares in the Company that may result in our exceeding the level of foreign ownership approved by the FCC. 31 Table of Contents If the supply of available mobile licensed spectrum increases, the value of our spectrum assets may decrease. The FCC or Industry Canada could allocate large amounts of additional mobile licensed spectrum that could be used to compete with us, or that could decrease the perceived market value of our wireless capacity. The FCC in 2006, for example, auctioned 90 MHz of spectrum in the 1.7/2.1 GHz range. More recently, the FCC commenced an auction of 60 MHz of spectrum in the 700 MHz band. Industry Canada has also announced that it will conduct an auction of PCS and Advanced Wireless Spectrum in May 2008 and further auctions in Canada are anticipated for the 700 MHz band as well as the 2.5 GHz band. Additional spectrum auctions may be scheduled in the future in both the United States and Canada. In addition, incremental allocations of spectrum may make it easier for new competitors to enter the market, and could further diminish the value of our spectrum assets. Technical challenges or regulatory requirements may limit the attractiveness of our spectrum for providing mobile services. We believe our L-band spectrum with ATC capability will be attractive to potential partners if our spectrum is at least functionally equivalent to PCS/cellular spectrum. The FCC and Industry Canada require us to provide substantial satellite service throughout the United States and Canada. This requirement may limit the availability of some of our spectrum for terrestrial service in some markets at some times. In addition, we must give priority and pre-emptive access to certain other users of the L-band, for example, for safety-related transmissions in the Global Maritime Distress and Safety System and the Aeronautical Mobile Satellite (Route) Service. PCS/cellular spectrum is not constrained by any such requirement. If we are not able to develop technology that allows our partners to use our spectrum in a manner comparable to PCS/cellular operators, we may not be successful in entering into partnership arrangements. Our ability to offer a primarily fixed service may be limited by the policies of the FCC. The FCC has permitted MSV to provide fixed services on a non-interference basis, which means that such operations are not permitted to cause interference to various other users of the band and are not permitted to claim protection from such other users. The FCC also has required MSV’s fixed services to be offered on an “incidental or ancillary” basis, conditions which the FCC has not defined in this context. We may face difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals for provision of telecommunications services and may face changes in regulation, each of which could adversely affect our operations. The provision of telecommunications services is highly regulated. We may be required to obtain additional approvals from national and local authorities in connection with the services that we currently provide or may wish to provide in the future, including in connection with services associated with our next generation integrated network. As a provider of communications services in the United States and Canada, we are subject to the regulatory authority of both the United States and Canada. Violations of laws or regulations may result in various sanctions including fines, loss of authorizations and the denial of applications for new authorizations or for the renewal of existing authorizations. Moreover, we may be required to obtain additional approvals from national and local regulatory authorities in connection with the services that we currently provide or wish to provide in the future. From time to time, governmental entities may impose new conditions on our authorizations which could have an effect on our ability to generate revenue and conduct our current and next generation business as currently planned. Industry Canada has also stated that it intends to establish license fees for ATC operators. If we are required to pay such fees, we may be subject to substantially increased costs. The United States federal government is also currently considering whether to impose spectrum fees on the right to use frequencies for ATC and possibly satellite services. While we believe that adoption of such fees is not likely, if implemented and extended to the frequencies used by us, use of such frequencies may be subject to substantially increased costs. 32 Table of Contents Export control and embargo laws may preclude us from obtaining necessary satellites, parts or data or providing certain services in the future. United States companies and companies located in the United States must comply with United States export control laws in connection with any information, products, or materials that they provide to MSV relating to satellites, associated equipment and data and with the provision of related services. If these entities cannot or do not obtain the necessary export or re-export authorizations from the United States government, we will be required to obtain such authorizations. It is possible that, in the future, we may not be able to obtain and maintain the necessary authorizations, or existing authorizations could be revoked. If we cannot obtain and maintain the necessary authorizations, this failure could adversely affect our ability to: • procure new United States-manufactured satellites; • control our existing satellites; • acquire launch services; • obtain insurance and pursue our rights under insurance policies; or • conduct our satellite-related operations. In addition, if we do not properly manage our internal compliance processes and violate United States export laws, the terms of an export authorization, or embargo laws, the violation could make it more difficult, or even impossible, to maintain or obtain licenses and could result in civil and criminal penalties. Our contractual relationship with potential partners that may operate ATC facilities in our next generation integrated network must comply with FCC and Industry Canada rules that require ATC to be integrated with the satellite service and require us, as a license holder, to control ATC operations. We must ensure compliance with the ATC rules of the FCC and Industry Canada. This may require agreements with some partners that provide for a degree of control by MSV and MSV Canada in the operation of their businesses that may be difficult to negotiate. In addition, the Communications Act and the FCC’s rules require MSV to maintain legal as well as actual control over the spectrum for which it is licensed. Our ability to enter into partnering arrangements may be limited by the requirement that we maintain de facto control of the spectrum for which we are licensed. If MSV is found to have relinquished control without approval from the FCC, we may be subject to fines, forfeitures, or revocation of its licenses. Rules relating to Canadian ownership and control of MSV Canada are subject to interpretation and change. MSV Canada is subject to foreign ownership restrictions imposed by the Telecommunications Act (Canada) and the Radiocommunication Act (Canada) and regulations made pursuant to these Acts. Although we believe that MSV Canada is in compliance with the relevant legislation, there can be no assurance that a future determination by Industry Canada or the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission, or events beyond its control, will not result in MSV Canada ceasing to comply with the relevant legislation. If such a development were 33 Table of Contents to occur, the ability of MSV Canada to operate as a Canadian carrier under the Telecommunications Act (Canada) or to maintain, renew or secure its Industry Canada authorizations could be jeopardized and our business could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Generally Fluctuations in our operating results could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: • risks and uncertainties affecting the current and proposed business of MSV and the mobile satellite services industry; • increased competition in the mobile satellite services industry; and • general economic conditions. As a result of these possible fluctuations, period-to-period comparisons of our financial results may not be reliable indicators of future performance. The price of our common stock has been volatile. The market price of our common stock has been volatile, and is likely to continue to be. In recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies in the technology sector. Future market movements may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock, particularly in light of the limited liquidity of our common stock. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which limits the liquidity and could negatively affect the value of our common stock. Since January 30, 2003, following our delisting from the NASDAQ National Market, price quotations have been available on the OTC Bulletin Board. Delisting from the NASDAQ National Market resulted in a reduction in the liquidity of our common stock. This lack of liquidity may also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital, if necessary, through equity financings. We do not intend to pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently expect to retain our future earnings, if any, for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. The issuance of preferred stock or additional common stock may adversely affect our stockholders. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by our common stockholders. The voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Similarly, our 34 Table of Contents board may issue additional shares of common stock without any further vote or action by our common stockholders, which would have the effect of diluting common stockholders. An issuance could occur in the context of another public or private offering of shares of common stock or preferred stock or in a situation where the common stock or preferred stock is used to acquire the assets or stock of another company. The issuance of common stock or preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions, investments and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. Anti-takeover provisions could make a third-party acquisition of our company difficult. We are a Delaware corporation. The Delaware General Corporation Law contains provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company. In addition, the holders of any preferred stock we may issue many certain rights which could prevent or impair the ability of a third party to acquire control of the company. Shares eligible for future sale could cause our stock price to decline. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur. In connection with the closing of the Exchange Transactions in September 2006 and the BCE Exchange Transaction in January 2007, we issued in excess of 41.4 million shares of our common stock which are covered by effective registration statements. The sale of such shares could have an adverse impact on our stock price. Furthermore, Apollo Investment Fund IV, L.P., Apollo Overseas Partners IV, L.P., AIF IV/RRRR LLC and AP/RM Acquisition LLC (collectively, the “Apollo Stockholders”) have the right to require us to register the shares of common stock that they hold as well as the shares of common stock underlying the Series 1-A and 2-A warrants to facilitate their sale of shares in the public market. The Series 1-A and Series 2-A warrants are exercisable at any time and expire on June 4, 2009. The Series 1-A warrants are exercisable for 652,711 shares of SkyTerra’s common stock. The number of shares issuable upon exercise of the Series 1-A warrants and the exercise price is dependent on the trading price of the SkyTerra’s trading price and will begin decreasing on a sliding scale if SkyTerra’s trading price exceeds $40.00 per share down to a minimum of 316,754 shares at $0.10 per share if SkyTerra’s trading price equal or exceeds $70.00 per share. The Series 2-A warrants are exercisable for a maximum of 2,560,182 shares of SkyTerra’s common stock. Additionally, in connection with the $150 million of notes MSV issued to Harbinger in January 2008, SkyTerra issued 9,144,038 ten-year warrants to purchase 7.5% of the Company’s common stock, with an exercise price of $10 per share. The Harbinger stockholders also have the right to require us to register the shares of common stock underlying the Harbinger warrants to facilitate their sale of shares in the public market. The future sale of substantial amounts of our common stock pursuant to any such registration statements could have an adverse impact on our stock price. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have created some uncertainty for companies such as ours. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from assisting MSV in revenue-generating activities to compliance activities, which could harm our business prospects. 35 Table of Contents The Apollo Stockholders beneficially own a large percentage of our voting stock. As of December 31, 2007, Apollo Stockholders owned an aggregate of 10,224,532 shares of our voting common stock, 6,173,597 shares of our non-voting common stock and all of our outstanding Series 1-A and Series 2-A warrants. Assuming all Series 1-A warrants and Series 2-A warrants were exercised, as of December 31, 2007, the Apollo Stockholders would beneficially own approximately 17.6% of our outstanding common stock and 33.6% of our outstanding voting rights on a fully diluted basis. On January 7, 2008, 9.1 million warrants were issued to Harbinger (“Harbinger Warrants”). Assuming all Series 1-A warrants, Series 2-A, and Harbinger Warrants were exercised, as of January 7, 2008, the Apollo Stockholders would beneficially own approximately 16.3% of our outstanding common stock and 27.2% of our outstanding voting rights on a fully diluted basis. Accordingly, Apollo is able to significantly influence the Company through their ability to influence the outcome of election of our directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and other actions requiring the vote or consent of stockholders. There is no assurance that the interests of Apollo will be aligned with those of other common stockholders, and Apollo may make decisions that adversely impact other common stockholders. Harbinger owns a large economic stake in us and several of our competitors. In addition to owning a significant portion of MSV’s senior secured notes and all of MSV’s senior unsecured notes, based on publicly available information as of February 14, 2008, we believe Harbinger and its affiliates, own 6.9 million shares of our voting common stock, equaling approximately 20% of the total voting rights of our outstanding stock, and an additional 14.4 million shares of our non-voting common stock. Harbinger also holds warrants to purchase an additional approximately 9.1 million shares of our common stock at $10 per share. If Harbinger maintains its significant ownership interest in TerreStar Corporation, it may receive significant additional shares of our voting common stock upon TerreStar Corporation’s completion of its distribution of 25.5 million shares of our common stock. Assuming Harbinger receives shares of the Company’s common stock from the TerreStar Corporation distribution, it could have a significant ability to influence the composition of the Board and management and thus influence the strategic course of the Company. Harbinger also reports significant ownership interests in Inmarsat. There can be no assurances that Harbinger’s interests will be aligned fully with our interests or those of other common stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 