Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below in evaluating our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also impair our operations and business. If we do not successfully address any of the risks described below, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and business, and the trading price of our common stock may decline. We cannot assure you that we will successfully address these risks. Risks Associated with Our Next Generation Business Plan Failure of the Harbinger Merger to close could damage the Company’s business. There are a number of risks and uncertainties relating to the proposed merger between the Company and Harbinger. There is no assurance that the Harbinger Merger will close, or that it will close in a timely fashion. There is no assurance that the necessary SkyTerra stockholder approval and requisite regulatory approvals, including approval by the FCC, will be obtained, that the other closing conditions will be satisfied or waived or that other events will not intervene to delay or result in the termination of the Harbinger Merger Agreement. If the Harbinger Merger is not completed for any reason, we will be subject to several risks, including the following: (i) the current market price of SkyTerra common stock may reflect a market assumption that the merger will occur, and a failure to complete the merger could result in a negative perception by the market of SkyTerra generally and a decline in the market price of SkyTerra common stock; (ii) many costs relating to the merger (such as legal, accounting, and a portion of its financial advisory fees) are payable by SkyTerra whether or not the merger is completed; (iii) we would continue to face the risks that we currently face as a independent company, as further described herein. If the Harbinger Merger is not completed, the risks described above may materialize and materially adversely affect our business, financial results, financial condition and stock price. The Company’s current operating assumptions and projections reflect management’s best estimate of future revenue, operating expenses and capital commitments, and indicate that the Company’s current sources of liquidity should be sufficient to fund the Company only through the third quarter of 2010, creating substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. In the event the Harbinger Merger does not close, or does not close in a timely fashion, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to attract alternative financial or strategic investments before it runs out of capital. The terms of the Harbinger Merger, our current indebtedness and the Securities Purchase Agreement include significant limitations on additional debt, including amount, terms, access to security and duration, among other factors, and impose limitations on the structure of strategic transactions. In addition, the Master Agreement, as amended, includes significant limitations on the issuance by the Company of additional debt and equity securities. In addition to the contractual limitations described above, there currently is limited trading in shares of our common stock, which limits our ability to raise funding through public equity issuances. If the Harbinger Merger does not close and/or other Harbinger funding is not forthcoming, the Company may pursue other means to extend its liquidity and raise capital. Those alternatives may include a capital infusion through an equity or debt investment with a strategic partner, a capital infusion through the sale of additional debt or equity, the renegotiation of vendor payment schedules to defer payments into the future, the postponement of certain discretionary spending, the sale of the Company’s investment in TerreStar Networks Inc. (“TerreStar Networks”), which is an affiliate of Harbinger, the sale of other Company assets, the delay or cancellation of certain of the Company’s planned operations, or some combination of these actions. In the event that the Harbinger Merger does not close, the Company intends to re-evaluate the financial and strategic alternatives that will be available to it at such time and there is no assurance that the Company will be able to find alternative financing sources. 22 Table of Contents If the Company fails to obtain necessary financing on a timely basis, the Company may be forced to cease operations, in which case it is uncertain that the carrying amount of the Company’s assets could be recovered. If the Company fails to obtain necessary financing on a timely basis, it may be able to continue operations, but in such a way that it must significantly alter its next generation network development plans. In such a case, the Company’s satellite construction, launch, or other events necessary to deploy and operate the Company’s next generation network and conduct the Company’s business could be significantly delayed, or its costs could materially increase; the Company could default on its commitments to its satellite construction or launch contractors, creditors or other third parties leading to termination of construction or inability to launch the Company’s satellites; and the Company may not be able to complete its next generation integrated network as planned or seek a purchaser for its satellite business or assets. Further, SkyTerra LP and SkyTerra Canada could lose their FCC licenses, Industry Canada licenses and their other international rights if they fail to achieve required performance milestones. If we fail to obtain additional financing we may not be able to continue as a going concern. The Company’s principal source of liquidity has historically been the issuance of debt instruments. The Company’s primary cash needs are for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service and operating expenses. To date, the Company has financed its operations through the private placement of debt (primarily with Harbinger), equity securities, and vendor financing. The remaining cost of carrying out our business plan is significant, and is significantly more than our currently available and committed resources. Our cost could be greater than our current estimates. For example, if we elect to exercise certain options to buy other equipment or services, our costs for the satellite component of our network will increase, possibly significantly. The cost to develop devices could be greater, perhaps significantly, than our current estimates, depending on our ability to attract distribution partners in both the satellite and terrestrial spaces. In addition, we will require significant additional funds to construct the terrestrial component of our integrated network, fund operations, and begin making cash principal and interest payments on indebtedness in the fourth quarter of 2010. Our existing funding plan does not include funding for the deployment of the terrestrial portion of our network, which is anticipated to be a multi-billion dollar undertaking depending on the implementation of air interface technology, the scope of the terrestrial build within each market and the targeted service offering (limited mobile, portable or fully mobile). The cost to build the terrestrial component of the network could be greater, perhaps significantly, than our current estimates, depending on changing costs of supplies, market conditions, and other factors over which we will have no control. The Company’s ability to obtain needed additional financing on acceptable terms, or at all, is uncertain, and is subject to a number of limitations in the Harbinger Merger Agreement and the Master Agreement as well as the Company’s outstanding debt agreements. Moreover, the Company’s ability to meet its projections is subject to uncertainties, and there is no assurance that the Company’s current projections will be accurate or that the Company will not need to alter its operations if its projections prove inaccurate. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In light of the pending Harbinger Merger, we are not actively pursuing financing alternatives to continue to increase the amount of capital available to fund our current operations and development of our next generation network, including constructing SkyTerra-1 and SkyTerra-2, the satellite component of the network. We have considered alternative means to raise capital, including strategic partnerships, vendor financing, sale of our interest in TerreStar Networks, and debt or equity financing, among others, but these alternatives are not under active consideration and/or are restricted based on the existing agreements with Harbinger . In the event that the Harbinger Merger does not close, there is no assurance that we can raise sufficient capital, or raise sufficient capital with terms that are favorable to us, under these various financing alternatives to continue to operate our business or complete our network. 23 Table of Contents Our substantial debt obligations could impair our liquidity and financial condition. We are a highly leveraged company and have significant amounts of long-term debt. Our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund operations and significant planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. The Company has not generated cash flow from operations and makes significant cash investments in capital items. Our substantial indebtedness and debt service obligations could have important consequences, including the following: • limiting our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry; • reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes by requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors who are less leveraged than we are. A significant portion of any future additional financing may consist of debt securities. As a result, we may be even more highly leveraged. If additional funds are raised through the incurrence of indebtedness, we may incur significant interest charges and become subject to various restrictions and covenants that could limit our ability to respond to market conditions, provide for unanticipated capital investments or take advantage of business opportunities. The market for our planned service is new and unproven and the success of our next generation business will depend on market acceptance. Other than satellite radio, we are not aware of any integrated (combined satellite and terrestrial) wireless service in commercial operation that has generated any material service revenue. Our business plan contemplates that a significant portion of our revenues will be derived from strategic partners. To date, we have not entered into any strategic partnerships with respect to distribution of our next generation integrated network. As a result, we can estimate only with a partial level of certainty the potential demand for such services and the degree to which we will meet that demand. Furthermore, there may not be sufficient demand to enable the Company, or there may be additional costs that do not allow the Company, to earn sufficient revenues, achieve sufficient cash flow or recognize a profit. Among other things, end user acceptance of our next generation integrated service will depend upon: • whether we provide integrated wireless services consistent with market demand; • the relative attractiveness of our service offerings to our anticipated partners; • the cost and availability of user equipment whose form factor is little different from standard wireless devices, but incorporates the new technology required to operate on our network; • federal, state, local and international regulations affecting the operation of satellite networks and wireless systems; • whether competitors develop new and alternative next generation technologies; and • general and local economic conditions. If we cannot gain market acceptance for our planned products and services, our business will be significantly harmed. We have made, and will continue to make, significant capital investments to generate demand for the Company’s services. Accordingly, any material miscalculation with respect to our operating strategy or business plan will harm our business. 24 Table of Contents We will depend on one or more third parties to incorporate our next generation technology into their consumer offerings, and such third parties may not be successful or effective in their use of our next generation technology. We do not plan to manufacture or sell next generation end-user devices to consumers. The success of our network will depend on partnerships with third parties that incorporate our next generation technology into their service and product offerings. In particular, we will not produce next generation wireless devices for sale to wireless consumers but instead will need to work with our future, not yet identified partners and customers to apply our next generation technology to standard wireless devices that they in turn market. If these future partners are not successful in incorporating our next generation technology or marketing devices compatible with our network, our revenues would be less than expected, and our business would suffer. Failure to develop and supply end-user devices to customers in a timely manner will negatively impact our revenues. We will rely on third party manufacturers and their distributors to manufacture and distribute next generation devices. Next generation devices are not yet available, and we and third party vendors may be unable to develop and produce enough affordable next generation devices in a timely manner to permit the widespread introduction of service. If we, our customers or our manufacturers fail to develop devices that are available for timely commercial sale at affordable prices, the launch of our next generation service would be delayed, our revenues would be less than expected, and our business would suffer. Furthermore, progress by these third-parties may be hindered by our strategic decisions or determinations to delay selections, with respect to technologies for various aspects of the network and end-user products, some of which may depend upon or be modified based on strategic partnerships that have not yet been entered into. Delays in those decisions will have a direct impact on the time to market for our next-generation services, our transition plans for current customers and our revenues. We will depend on one or more third party contractors to construct the terrestrial base station component of our next generation integrated network. We currently plan to contract with one or more third parties to construct the terrestrial component of our next generation integrated network. Our success in implementing our next generation integrated network and in penetrating our targeted vertical markets will depend, to a large extent, on the efforts of these third party vendors. The development and rollout of the terrestrial network by these third parties may be subject to unforeseen delays, cost overruns, regulatory changes, engineering and technological changes and other factors, some of which may be outside of our control. If we are not able to enter into contracting relationships and construct the terrestrial component of our next generation integrated network, we may not be able to implement our business plan. Current customers may migrate away from our current generation service offerings in advance of the availability of next generation devices and services. Current customers may elect to not migrate to our next generation devices and services when such devices and services become available. Our next generation network is scheduled to be placed into service during the next year. Such next generation network will initially operate through a service (emulation) that allows current customers to operate current generation devices over the next generation network. Emulation will not support next generation services and is not efficient or cost-effective with respect to operation of the next generation system. In addition, current generation devices will face service disruption in the proximity of an ATC base station if emulation were to be simultaneous with ATC operations. As such, emulation is currently anticipated to be offered for a limited number of years. We expect that current generation revenue generating services will decline over time as the operational life of current generation devices and services continues to decrease. While the Company is adding new customers, and has a program for new and current customers to transition to next generation devices, there is no assurance 25 Table of Contents that new customers and revenue generated from such will compensate for customers that may terminate service on the current generation network. In addition, when the current generation network is decommissioned, existing customers that cannot take advantage of emulation will need to adopt and deploy next generation equipment to enjoy continued service, and such customers may opt to select devices and services provided by the Company’s competitors. There is no assurance that our next generation device and service offerings will be selected by our existing customers or whether, and how many, of those customers will transition to our competitor’s networks at the end of emulation. Our integrated wireless network will depend on the development and integration of complex technologies in a satellite configuration that might not work. Our next generation integrated network will require new applications of existing technology, complex integration of different technologies and the development of new technologies. We will have to integrate a number of sophisticated satellite and other wireless technologies that typically have not been integrated in the past, and some of which are not yet fully developed, before we can begin offering our next generation service. In order for our service to be received by traditional consumer devices, additional components and software will need to be added to such devices to adjust for the L-band frequencies as well as satellite communications. Although we intend to test the components of our next generation integrated network, we cannot confirm the ability of the system to function until we have deployed a substantial portion of our next generation integrated network. There could also be delays in the planned development, integration and operation of the components of our next generation integrated network. If the technological integration of our next generation integrated network is not completed in a timely and effective manner, our business would be harmed. In our next generation integrated network, we will seek to develop and deploy network management techniques so that mobile devices used on our network will be able to seamlessly transition between satellite mode and terrestrial mode. We intend to develop such techniques primarily by adapting existing techniques used in PCS/cellular systems and digital/analog systems. However, such techniques have not been deployed before in a combined satellite/terrestrial two-way mobile communications system, and there are no assurances that we will be successful in developing such techniques or deploying them in its next generation integrated network in a cost effective or timely manner. If we are not able to develop or deploy such techniques, mobile devices used on our network may not be able to seamlessly transition between satellite and terrestrial modes, and this may make our next generation integrated network less attractive to potential partners and end-user customers. Our next generation satellites are subject to possible construction and delivery delays, the occurrence of which could materially and adversely affect our business. Our next generation satellites are subject to possible construction and delivery delays. The manufacture of such satellites is technically complex, and delays could result from a variety of causes. Such causes could include failure of third-party vendors to perform as anticipated and changes in the technical specifications of the satellite, including increases in weight or mass that could limit our ability to utilize our launch provider resulting in delays if an alternative provider does not have schedule availability during our desired launch window. Alternatively, such changes to technical specifications could limit our ability to move to an alternate launch provider if our primary provider experiences material schedule delays. There is no assurance that delivery of our next generation satellites will be timely, which may hinder the introduction of our planned next generation integrated network. Any delay could also make it more difficult for us to secure desired distribution partnerships. During any period of delay, we would continue to have significant cash requirements that could materially increase the aggregate amount of funding we need. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, during periods of delay. A delay could also require rescheduling of the anticipated 26 Table of Contents launch date, and another launch slot may not be available within a reasonable period of time. In addition, a delay in satellite system operations could also result in revocation of our regulatory approvals and our international rights. Our satellites could be damaged or destroyed during launch or deployment, fail to achieve their designated orbital location after launch or experience significant launch delays. A percentage of satellites never become operational because of, among other factors, launch failure, satellite destruction or damage during launch, improper orbital placement and/or the failure of antennas to fully deploy. Launch failure rates vary depending on the particular launch vehicle and contractor. Even launch vehicles with good track records experience some launch failures, and there is no assurance that we will be able to launch our satellites on vehicles with higher success rates. If one or more launches or deployments fail, we will suffer significant delays that will be damaging to our business, we will incur significant additional costs associated with the failed launches, and our revenue generating activities will be delayed. We cannot assure you that our satellite launches or deployments will be successful. The deployment of large antennas, such as the antennas on our next generation satellites, which are larger than most commercial satellites, pose additional risks during deployment. Even if launched into orbit, a satellite may fail to enter into its designated orbital location, or we may use more fuel than planned to place a satellite into its orbital location and, as a result, may reduce the overall useful life of the satellite. In addition, a delay in satellite system operations could also result in revocation of our regulatory approvals and our international rights. Satellites have a limited useful life and premature failure of our satellites could damage our business. During and after their launch, all satellites are subject to equipment failures, malfunctions and other problems. If one of our satellites were to fail prematurely, it likely would affect the quality of our service, substantially delay the commencement or interrupt the continuation of our service and harm our business and could impact our licenses. This harm to our business would continue until we either extend service to our customers on another satellite or build and launch additional satellites. Each of the MSAT-1 and MSAT-2 satellites has in the past experienced malfunctions and neither operates at full capacity. Our satellites could experience future malfunctions at any time, which could damage their ability to serve our customers, harm our reputation in the marketplace, reduce the expected useful life of the satellites and possibly adversely affect our government approvals. In addition, each of the MSAT-1 and MSAT-2 satellites is operating in inclined orbit, which may increasingly affect the service delivery, particularly to customers operating at the edge of the satellites’ respective coverage area. There is no assurance that our existing satellites will remain operational until such time as we launch our next generation satellites. Any gap could have a material adverse effect on our business and could result in the loss of licenses. Our ability to generate revenue depends on the lives of our existing and next generation satellites. Each satellite has a limited useful life. A number of factors could decrease the useful lives of our satellites to less than what is currently expected, including, without limitation: • defects in construction; • faster than expected degradation of solar panels; • durability of component parts; • loss of fuel on board; • higher than anticipated use of fuel to maintain the satellite’s orbital location or higher than anticipated use of fuel during orbit raising following launch; • random failure of satellite components that are not protected by back-up units; • electromagnetic storms; and • collisions with other objects in space. 27 Table of Contents Limitations on our spectrum and services are included in current arrangements with partners and further limitations may be included in future arrangements with these and other partners. Our arrangements with partners may constrain the quantity and type of current-generation devices that can be supported in the future. As a result, our current customers could be forced to transition to next-generation devices or terminate service with us, negatively impacting our revenues. Our arrangements with partners may place limits on the amount of spectrum available for next-generation satellite services that may negatively impact our revenues. Interference standards and frequency plans that could result from future arrangements with partners could adversely impact capacity on our next generation satellites, negatively impacting our revenues. Damage to our satellites may not be fully covered by insurance. We intend to purchase launch and in-orbit insurance policies for our next generation satellites from global space insurance underwriters. If certain material adverse changes in market conditions for full in-orbit insurance were to make it commercially unreasonable for us to maintain full in-orbit insurance, we could forego such insurance. Other adverse changes in insurance market conditions may substantially increase the premiums we will have to pay for such insurance or may preclude us from fully insuring its loss. If the launch of our next generation satellite system is a total or partial failure, our insurance may not fully cover our losses, and these failures may also cause insurers to include additional exclusions in our insurance policies when they come up for renewal. There is no assurance that additional financing will be available to construct, launch and insure a replacement satellite or, if available, will be available on terms favorable to us. We do not expect to buy insurance to cover, and would not have protection against, business interruption, loss of business or similar losses. Also, any insurance we obtain will likely contain certain customary exclusions and material change conditions that would limit our coverage. We do not have insurance with respect to the existing MSAT satellites. Delays in deployment of our terrestrial network due to limited tower availability, local zoning approvals or adequate telecommunications transport capacity would negatively impact our revenues. Our business strategy includes the deployment of a terrestrial network. Tower sites and authorizations in some desirable areas may be very costly and time intensive to obtain. If we are unable to obtain tower space, local zoning approvals or adequate telecommunications transport capacity to develop our network in a timely fashion, the launch of our next generation integrated network would be delayed, our revenues would be less than expected and our business would suffer. Our planned terrestrial network or other ground facilities could be damaged by natural catastrophes or man-made disasters. Since our planned terrestrial network will be attached to buildings, towers and other structures around the country, an earthquake, tornado, flood or other catastrophic event or other man-made disaster or vandalism could damage our network, interrupt our service and harm our business in the affected area. We will not have replacement or fully redundant facilities that can be used to assume the functions of our terrestrial network in the event of a catastrophic event. Any damage to our terrestrial network would likely result in degradation of our service for some subscribers and could result in complete loss of service in some affected areas. Temporary disruptions could also damage our reputation and the demand for our services. We may be unable to achieve our business and financial objectives because the communications industry is highly competitive. In seeking market acceptance for our next generation services, we will encounter competition from many sources, including: • existing satellite services from other operators; • conventional terrestrial wireless services; 28 Table of Contents • traditional wireline voice and high-speed data offerings; • terrestrial land-mobile and fixed services; and • next generation integrated services that may be offered in the future by other networks operating in the S-band, L-band or Big LEO band. The communications industry includes major domestic and international companies, many of which have financial, technical, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources substantially greater than we do and which provide a wider range of services than will be provided by us. While we have stated that we believe our services will be complementary to terrestrial wireless services, we may be adversely affected by competition from companies that provide services using existing wireless technologies. We may also face competition from companies using new technologies and new integrated networks in the future. For instance, the FCC has authorized New DBSD (formerly ICO) and TerreStar Networks to use radio frequencies for mobile satellite services within the S-band. These potential competitors have either recently launched and/or are planning commercial operations in this band with integrated networks similar to those envisioned by us. Through SkyTerra LP’s subsidiary, ATC Technologies LLC, SkyTerra LP has also granted TerreStar a license to use SkyTerra LP’s intellectual property for the development of TerreStar’s network. TerreStar launched an S-band satellite in July 2009 and New DBSD launched an S-band satellite in April 2008. Additionally, New DBSD received ATC authority in January 2009, and TerreStar received ATC authority in January 2010. Failure to offer next generation integrated services that compete effectively with potential competitors such as TerreStar and ICO would have an adverse impact on our revenues, profitability and liquidity. We will also face competition with respect to entering into strategic partnerships. We and our partners must continue to identify, develop and market innovative products or enhance existing products on a timely basis to maintain our competitive position. Our future growth may depend on our ability to gauge the direction of commercial and technological progress in key markets and on our ability to fund and successfully develop and market products and services. Our competitors may have access to technologies not available to us, which may enable them to provide communications services of greater interest to end users, or at a more competitive cost. We may not be able to develop new products or technology, either alone or with third parties, or license any additional necessary intellectual property rights from third parties on a commercially competitive basis. The satellite and wireless industries are both characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product innovations, changes in customer requirements and expectations and evolving industry standards. If we or our partners are unable to keep pace with these changes, our business may be unsuccessful. Products using new technologies, or emerging industry standards, could make our technologies obsolete. If we or our partners fail to keep pace with the evolving technological innovations in our markets on a competitive basis, our financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected. Demand for our services may not grow or be accepted in particular geographic markets, for particular types of services, or during particular time periods. A lack of demand could adversely affect our ability to sell our services, enter into strategic partnerships or develop and successfully market new services. In addition, demand patterns shift over time, and consumer preferences may not favor the services we plan to offer. Economic downturns or declines in consumer spending could negatively affect our results of operations and our access to capital. We expect the primary consumer of our next generation services will be customers of our distribution partners and customers within certain vertical markets (for example, public safety, fleet management and consumer telematics). If the United States or Canada experience further economic downturns or if spending by end customers declines in the future, our business may be negatively affected. 29 Table of Contents We may not be able to protect our proprietary information and intellectual property rights, which could limit the growth of our business and impact our ability to compete. SkyTerra LP has filed a significant number of patent applications (each application being filed in the United States and in several countries abroad), and owns numerous U.S. and foreign patents covering the fundamental principles of our next generation integrated technology. There is no assurance that the patents for which SkyTerra LP has applied will be issued or, if issued, will be sufficient to fully protect our technology. In addition, there is no assurance that any patents issued or licensed to SkyTerra LP will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary technology and other trade secrets. While it is our policy to enter into confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties to protect our proprietary expertise and other trade secrets, these agreements may not be enforceable, or, even if legally enforceable, we may not have adequate remedies for breaches of such agreements. The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary technology or trade secrets could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins or loss of market share. We may be unable to determine when third parties are using our intellectual property rights without our authorization. The undetected or unremedied use of our intellectual property rights or the legitimate development or acquisition of intellectual property similar to ours by third parties could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have as a result of our intellectual property, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. If we must take legal action to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights, any suits or proceedings could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and our management’s attention and could have material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, regardless of the final outcome of such legal action. Despite our efforts to safeguard and maintain our intellectual property rights, there is no assurance that we will be successful in doing so or that our competitors will not independently develop or patent technologies equivalent or superior to our technologies. A failure to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property now and in the future. Third parties may claim that our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages, or prevent us from making, using, or selling our products. Other parties may have patents or pending patent applications relating to integrated wireless technology that may later mature into patents. Although we do not intend to, we may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Such parties may bring suit against us for patent or other infringement of intellectual property rights. If our products or services are found to infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others, we may need to obtain licenses from those parties or substantially re-engineer our products or processes in order to avoid infringement. We may not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or be able to re-engineer our products successfully. Moreover, if we are found by a court of law to infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to pay substantial damages or be enjoined from making, using, or selling the infringing products or technology. We could also be enjoined from making, using, or selling the allegedly infringing products or technology, pending the final outcome of the suit. Our business could be harmed if we cannot attract and retain key personnel. Our success depends, in large part, upon the continuing contributions of our key technical, marketing, sales and management personnel. We generally do not enter into employment agreements with our employees for 30 Table of Contents fixed terms and do not maintain “key-executive” insurance on any of our employees. The loss of the services of several key employees within a short period of time could harm our business and our future prospects. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional management and technical personnel required in connection with the growth and development of our business. Competition for such personnel is intense, and if we fail to retain or attract such personnel our business could suffer. We have entered into arrangements with certain executives which provide for payments upon a change of control, as defined in those agreements. Regulatory Risks Associated with Our Business We may not be able to coordinate successfully with other L-band satellite system operators to access and use the full amount of L-band spectrum we currently believe we will be able to utilize. We are required to coordinate the use of our satellites as part of the satellite registration process of the International Telecommunication Union (“ITU”). With respect to the primary frequencies used by commercial GEOs, the ITU rules grant rights to member states (which are the national governments party to the ITU treaty) on a “first-in-time, first-in-right” basis and set forth a process for protecting earlier-registered satellite systems from interference from later-registered satellite systems. To comply with these rules, we must coordinate the operation of our satellites with other satellites. The coordination process may require us to modify our proposed coverage areas, or satellite design or transmission plans, in order to eliminate or minimize interference with other satellites or ground-based facilities. In addition, while the ITU’s rules require later-in-time systems to coordinate their operations with us, we cannot guarantee that other operators will conduct their operations so as to avoid transmitting any signals that would cause harmful interference to the signals that we, or our customers, transmit. Since the Company’s system became operational in 1996, its spectrum access in North America has been governed by a multi-lateral agreement referred to as the Mexico City Memorandum of Understanding (“Mexico City MoU”) and by bilateral agreements. Five national administrations, the United States, Canada, Mexico, Russia and the United Kingdom, are party to the Mexico City MoU. We operate our satellites under the auspices of the United States and Canada. Accordingly, we must coordinate with operators and their administrations to operate in the L-band and to reconfigure the L-band. Since 1999, there has been no new, comprehensive, spectrum sharing agreement among all the satellite system operators represented by the five administrations and we have not completed coordination of our new satellites. Our Cooperation Agreement with Inmarsat, which has been accepted in part by our Administrations, is a significant step to completing the coordination of our new satellites, providing substantial spectrum access, and creating additional flexibility for ancillary terrestrial operations. Additional approvals are required, however, before coordination of the satellite networks, under all phases specified in the Cooperation Agreement, will be complete. At the same time, the agreement with Inmarsat includes certain limitations on our system operations in order to facilitate spectrum reuse by Inmarsat; these limitations may have an adverse impact on the extent that we are technically able to provide certain satellite and terrestrial services and, as a result, the revenues we are able to generate from those services. Additionally, the initial international frequency coordination of our system was done for narrowband services and air interfaces. Newer broadband services and air interfaces require larger blocks of contiguous spectrum. While some of our L- band spectrum is already in sufficiently large contiguous blocks to permit the offering of such new formats, we are trying to increase the extent to which our spectrum is contiguous. Our Cooperation Agreement with Inmarsat is a significant step in the process of rebanding to provide for additional contiguity. We would obtain further, substantial benefit from successful negotiations with the Mexican operator and Administration to further reconfigure the L-band spectrum. Pending a successful outcome of negotiations with the Mexico operator and Administration, the Company filed applications with the FCC and Industry Canada to reuse spectrum allocated to the Mexican operator. Industry Canada granted the Company’s application on January 29, 2010, and the FCC has not yet acted. However, while grant of these applications allows SkyTerra to proceed to deploy its services using larger blocks of contiguous spectrum, it may still be necessary to complete coordination negotiations with the Mexican operator and Administration in order to continue to ensure access to 31 Table of Contents these contiguous blocks. It is uncertain whether we will be able to successfully complete such negotiations at a reasonable economic and technical price or be able to otherwise reconfigure the L-band spectrum. The failure to reconfigure the L-band into larger blocks of contiguous spectrum will prevent us from maximizing the efficiency and capacity of our next generation integrated network. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that the ITU will not change its rules in the future in a way that could limit or preclude our use of some or all of our existing or future orbital locations or frequencies. We may not be able to secure the return of certain spectrum we loaned to Inmarsat. In 1999 and 2003, and consistent with the Mexico City MoU, SkyTerra LP and SkyTerra Canada loaned approximately 3 MHz of L-band spectrum to Inmarsat for its temporary use (“Original Loan”). Our Cooperation Agreement with Inmarsat addresses a dispute regarding the return of the loaned spectrum, including the possibility of arbitration under certain circumstances. In addition, pursuant to the Cooperation Agreement, we have temporarily loaned Inmarsat additional spectrum (“New Loan”). There is no assurance that we will receive the return of the Original Loan and/or New Loan, whether through arbitration or otherwise, and certain provisions of the Cooperation Agreement with Inmarsat provide that upon the occurrence of certain events the loaned spectrum would become integrated with the agreed upon band plans for operation and would not be separately subject to return. Our service may cause or be subject to interference, and we may have to limit our services to avoid harmful interference As a satellite provider and ATC system operator, we are required to provide our satellite and ATC service without causing harmful interference to other spectrum users and we must accept some interference from other spectrum users. This requirement may potentially hinder the operation, limit the deployment or add additional cost to our satellite and/or ATC system and may, in certain cases, subject our users to a degradation in service quality. Although we have agreements with certain spectrum users in neighboring spectrum bands and within the L-band to avoid harmful interference, there is no assurance that these agreements will be sufficient or that additional interference issues with other systems will not occur. We need additional regulatory approvals before we can operate ATC. Pursuant to the Cooperation Agreement, in December 2008 the Company filed an application with the FCC requesting authority for additional flexibility for operation of ATC. Pursuant to the Cooperation Agreement, Inmarsat supported this application. In April 2009, the FCC issued a letter order dismissing the amended ATC modification application without prejudice to refiling, for the alleged failure to provide sufficient information to demonstrate compliance with certain of the FCC’s rules. The Company refiled the application with additional information responsive to the FCC’s letter on April 29, 2009, and the FCC issued a public notice of the filing on June 5, 2009. On July 23, 2009, the Company filed reply comments to three parties that raised objections to the FCC granting the application. One of those parties, the GPS Council, subsequently withdrew its comments. The FCC has not yet acted on the Company’s application. In addition, the Company will need further regulatory approvals before it can operate ATC, including a blanket license for its user terminals and FCC certification of its user terminals and base stations. Any difficulty in obtaining these approvals may delay the commencement of operation of our new system. SkyTerra Canada does not yet have authority from Industry Canada to operate an ATC in Canada. We cannot provide any assurance if or when we will obtain any of these approvals. A 2002 decision could be construed to limit a portion of our operations to using no more than 20 MHz of L-band spectrum. In a 2002 decision, the FCC granted our subsidiary, SkyTerra Sub, a license to use up to 20 MHz of L-band spectrum on MSAT-2. That decision also states that spectrum acquired under a future merger between our 32 Table of Contents corporate predecessor and TMI Communications, which formerly held both the Industry Canada and FCC L-band authorizations associated with the MSAT-1 satellite, would be included within the 20 MHz limit. The Company filed a petition for clarification and partial reconsideration of that decision because SkyTerra Sub had already been established pursuant to an FCC order in 2001 that had authorized SkyTerra Sub to use TMI Communications’ spectrum without imposing such spectrum limitations. Under the most recent SSA developed pursuant to the Mexico City MoU, SkyTerra LP was assigned less than 20 MHz of L-band spectrum for the United States satellites. We believe that, even if limited to 20 MHz of spectrum on the United States satellites, we would continue to be able to use all of the coordinated spectrum (approximately 30 MHz) on SkyTerra Canada’s satellite and on our integrated network, as well as up to 20 MHz of coordinated spectrum on SkyTerra LP’s satellite. We cannot be sure how or when the FCC will dispose of the Company’s petition, but subsequent FCC decisions suggest that spectrum licensed to SkyTerra Canada is not included within the 20 MHz limit. If the FCC decides adversely to the Company, our United States licensed L-band satellites (MSAT-2 and SkyTerra-1) could be limited to a maximum of 20 MHz, which could reduce our ability to offer certain new services. Failure to comply with FCC and Industry Canada rules and regulations could damage our business. FCC and Industry Canada rules and regulations, and the terms of our satellite authorizations and ATC license from the FCC, require us to meet certain conditions, such as satellite construction and launch milestones, maintenance of satellite coverage of all 50 states, Puerto Rico, Canada, and the United States Virgin Islands and the provision of an integrated service offering. Non-compliance by us with these or other conditions, including other FCC or Industry Canada gating criteria, could result in fines, additional license conditions, license revocation, or other adverse FCC or Industry Canada actions. In a September 2006 decision, the FCC granted the Company authority to slightly exceed the 25% indirect foreign ownership limit specified in the Communications Act. To comply with the amount of indirect foreign ownership approved by the FCC, we must monitor the extent to which our stock is owned or voted by non-U.S. citizens. The foreign ownership restrictions limit our ability to be owned by non-U.S. citizens absent prior FCC approval. Exceeding the amount of foreign ownership approved by the FCC in the September 2006 decision without securing prior approval from the FCC may subject the Company to fines, forfeitures, or revocation of our FCC licenses. In March 2007, we filed a Petition for Declaratory Ruling with the FCC seeking approval for a new level of indirect foreign ownership for the Company. On January 11, 2008, Harbinger tendered a petition to the FCC seeking expedited action on a declaratory ruling to permit Harbinger to raise their interest in the Company through open market share acquisitions to a level in excess of that previously approved by the FCC. On January 29, 2008, Harbinger tendered to the FCC a petition seeking permanent authority to make the level of acquisitions specified in their January 11 petition. On March 7, 2008, the FCC issued an order granting the March 2007 and January 11, 2008 petitions. On August 24, 2009, the FCC issued an order granting part of the January 29, 2008 petition, and finding that it had granted the remaining part in its March 7, 2008 order. The grant of these petitions was without prejudice to any enforcement action by the FCC for the Company’s possible non-compliance with the foreign ownership rules prior to the grant, and there is no assurance the FCC will not decide to do so. There is also no assurance that foreign persons or entities have not acquired or will not acquire additional shares in the Company that may result in our exceeding the level of foreign ownership approved by the FCC. We may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory consents for transfer of control of the Company to Harbinger or for a business combination between SkyTerra and Inmarsat. On August 22, 2008, pursuant to the Master Agreement with Harbinger and certain of its affiliates, Harbinger and SkyTerra submitted applications to the FCC seeking consent for transfer of control of the Company to Harbinger and for a business combination between SkyTerra and Inmarsat. The applications also sought a declaratory ruling approving a range of possible foreign ownership levels associated with Harbinger’s ownership of up to 100% of SkyTerra. The granting of this FCC transfer of control application is necessary for the Harbinger Merger to be consummated. (See “Failure of the Harbinger Merger to close could damage the 33 Table of Contents Company’s business.”). The applications have been amended from time to time, including an amendment filed on October 5, 2009, that among other things informed the FCC that the proposed transfer of control will be implemented pursuant to the Harbinger Merger Agreement. The application seeking consent for transfer of control of the Company to Harbinger was subject to public comment and objections from third parties, and the formal comment period closed on June 18, 2009. No comments or objections were filed other than a request, which the Company believes is routine in such matters, from the U.S. Department of Justice, with the concurrence of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (the “Executive Branch Agencies”), asking that the FCC defer action on the applications until the Executive Branch Agencies have completed their review of the applications for any national security, law enforcement, and public safety issues. This request has since been withdrawn, and is no longer pending before the FCC. However, the FCC has not yet acted on this application, nor has the FCC issued a public notice regarding the business combination between SkyTerra and Inmarsat. There is no assurance that the applications will be granted and it is uncertain when the FCC will complete its processing of the applications. We will need to submit additional filings and obtain approvals from other regulatory bodies before we can consummate the transactions contemplated by the Master Agreement. There is no assurance that we will obtain all the necessary regulatory approvals for the proposed transactions. Moreover, there is no assurance that regulatory approvals, if granted, will be granted before Harbinger has a right to terminate the Master Agreement, or will be free of conditions that might give Harbinger a right to terminate. If we do not obtain all the required approvals, we may be unable to achieve our business and financial objectives. If the supply of available mobile licensed spectrum increases, the value of our spectrum assets may decrease. The FCC or Industry Canada could allocate large amounts of additional mobile licensed spectrum that could be used to compete with us, or that could decrease the perceived market value of our wireless capacity. The FCC in 2006, for example, auctioned 90 MHz of spectrum in the 1.7/2.1 GHz range. More recently, the FCC auctioned almost all of the available spectrum in the 698-806 MHz band (“the 700 MHz Band”). Industry Canada also conducted an auction of PCS and Advanced Wireless Spectrum, which concluded in July 2008 and further auctions in Canada are anticipated for the 700 MHz band as well as the 2.5 GHz band. Additional spectrum auctions may be scheduled in the future in both the United States and Canada. As part of its proceeding to develop a broadband strategy, the FCC sought comment on whether sufficient spectrum exists to serve the demand for wireless broadband services, and received comments proposing to bring significant additional spectrum to market. In addition, incremental allocations of spectrum may make it easier for new competitors to enter the market, and could further diminish the value of our spectrum assets. Technical challenges or regulatory requirements may limit the attractiveness of our spectrum for providing mobile services. We believe our L-band spectrum with ATC capability will be attractive to potential partners if our spectrum is at least functionally equivalent to PCS/cellular spectrum. The FCC and Industry Canada require us to provide substantial satellite service throughout the United States and Canada. This requirement may limit the availability of some of our spectrum for terrestrial service in some markets at some times. In addition, we must give priority and pre-emptive access to certain other users of the L-band, for example, for safety-related transmissions in the Global Maritime Distress and Safety System and the Aeronautical Mobile Satellite (Route) Service. PCS/cellular spectrum is not constrained by any such requirement. If we are not able to develop technology that allows our partners to use our spectrum in a manner comparable to PCS/cellular operators, we may not be successful in entering into partnership arrangements. Our ability to offer a primarily fixed service may be limited by the policies of the FCC. The FCC has permitted SkyTerra LP to provide fixed services on a non-interference basis, which means that such operations are not permitted to cause interference to various other users of the band and are not permitted to claim protection from such other users. The FCC also has required SkyTerra LP’s fixed services to be offered on an “incidental or ancillary” basis, conditions which the FCC has not defined in this context. 34 Table of Contents We may face difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals for provision of telecommunications services and may face changes in regulation, each of which could adversely affect our operations. The provision of telecommunications services is highly regulated. We may be required to obtain additional approvals from national and local authorities in connection with the services that we currently provide or may wish to provide in the future, including in connection with services associated with our next generation integrated network. As a provider of communications services in the United States and Canada, we are subject to the regulatory authority of both the United States and Canada. Violations of laws or regulations may result in various sanctions including fines, loss of authorizations and the denial of applications for new authorizations or for the renewal of existing authorizations. Moreover, we may be required to obtain additional approvals from national and local regulatory authorities in connection with the services that we currently provide or wish to provide in the future. From time to time, governmental entities may impose new conditions on our authorizations which could have an effect on our ability to generate revenue and conduct our current and next generation business as currently planned. Industry Canada has also stated that it intends to establish license fees for ATC operators. If we are required to pay such fees, we may be subject to substantially increased costs. The United States federal government is also currently considering whether to impose spectrum fees on the right to use frequencies for ATC and possibly satellite services. While we believe that adoption of such fees in the United States is not likely, if implemented and extended to the frequencies used by us, use of such frequencies may be subject to substantially increased costs. Export control and embargo laws may preclude us from obtaining necessary satellites, parts or data or providing certain services in the future. United States companies and companies located in the United States must comply with United States export control laws in connection with any information, products, or materials that they provide to SkyTerra LP relating to satellites, associated equipment and data and with the provision of related services. If these entities cannot or do not obtain the necessary export or re-export authorizations from the United States government, we will be required to obtain such authorizations. It is possible that, in the future, we may not be able to obtain and maintain the necessary authorizations, or existing authorizations could be revoked. If we cannot obtain and maintain the necessary authorizations, this failure could adversely affect our ability to: • procure new United States-manufactured satellites; • control our existing satellites; • acquire launch services; • obtain insurance and pursue our rights under insurance policies; or • conduct our satellite-related operations. In addition, if we do not properly manage our internal compliance processes and violate United States export laws, the terms of an export authorization, or embargo laws, the violation could make it more difficult, or even impossible, to maintain or obtain licenses and could result in civil and criminal penalties. Our contractual relationship with potential partners that may operate ATC facilities in our next generation integrated network must comply with FCC and Industry Canada rules that require ATC to be integrated with the satellite service and require us, as a license holder, to control ATC operations. We must ensure compliance with the ATC rules of the FCC and Industry Canada. This may require agreements with some partners that provide for a degree of control by SkyTerra LP and SkyTerra Canada in the operation of their businesses that may be difficult to negotiate. 35 Table of Contents In addition, the Communications Act and the FCC’s rules require the Company to maintain legal as well as actual control over the spectrum for which it is licensed. Our ability to enter into partnering arrangements may be limited by the requirement that we maintain de facto control of the spectrum for which we are licensed. If the Company is found to have relinquished control without approval from the FCC, we may be subject to fines, forfeitures, or revocation of its licenses. Rules relating to Canadian ownership and control of SkyTerra Canada are subject to interpretation and change. SkyTerra Canada is subject to foreign ownership restrictions imposed by the Telecommunications Act (Canada) and the Radiocommunication Act (Canada) and regulations made pursuant to these Acts. Although we believe that SkyTerra Canada is in compliance with the relevant legislation, there is no assurance that a future determination by Industry Canada or the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission, or events beyond its control, will not result in SkyTerra Canada ceasing to comply with the relevant legislation. If such a development were to occur, the ability of SkyTerra Canada to operate as a Canadian carrier under the Telecommunications Act (Canada) or to maintain, renew or secure its Industry Canada authorizations could be jeopardized and our business could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Generally Fluctuations in our operating results could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: • risks and uncertainties affecting the current and proposed business of the Company and the mobile satellite services industry; • increased competition in the mobile satellite services industry; and • general economic conditions. As a result of these possible fluctuations, period-to-period comparisons of our financial results may not be reliable indicators of future performance. The price of our common stock has been volatile. The market price of our common stock has been volatile, and is likely to continue to be. In recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies in the technology sector. Future market movements may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock, particularly in light of the limited liquidity of our common stock. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which limits the liquidity and could negatively affect the value of our common stock. Our price quotations are available on the OTC Bulletin Board that results in a reduction in the liquidity of our common stock. This lack of liquidity may also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital, if necessary, through equity financings. We do not intend to pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently expect to retain our future earnings, if any, for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. 36 Table of Contents The issuance of preferred stock or additional common stock may adversely affect our stockholders. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by our common stockholders. The voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Similarly, our board may issue additional shares of common stock without any further vote or action by our common stockholders, which would have the effect of diluting common stockholders. An issuance could occur in the context of another public or private offering of shares of common stock or preferred stock or in a situation where the common stock or preferred stock is used to acquire the assets or stock of another company. The issuance of common stock or preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions, investments and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. Moreover, the issuance of any equity in the Company has been significantly limited under the terms of the Harbinger Merger Agreement and the Master Agreement. Anti-takeover provisions could make a third-party acquisition of our company difficult. We are a Delaware corporation. The Delaware General Corporation Law contains provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company. In addition, the holders of any preferred stock we may issue may have certain rights which could prevent or impair the ability of a third party to acquire control of the company. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have created some uncertainty for companies such as ours. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities, which could harm our business prospects. Harbinger and its affiliates beneficially own a significant portion of our outstanding shares of voting common stock and a significant portion of our outstanding shares of non-voting common stock. Harbinger and its affiliates can take actions that may be adverse to the interests of other stockholders. As of February 23, 2010 Harbinger and its affiliates collectively owned 22,339,283 shares of voting common stock and 29,946,362 shares of non-voting common stock, representing approximately 46% of the voting common stock outstanding and 48% of the total common shares outstanding. Harbinger also has the right to an additional 9,984,270 common shares currently being held in escrow pending the FCC’s decision on Harbinger’s application to acquire control of the Company. The shares held in escrow represent 9.2% of the Company’s total shares outstanding and include (i) 442,825 shares of voting common stock held in escrow by Akin Gump Strauss Hauer and Feld LLP and (ii) 7,906,737 shares of non-voting common stock and 1,634,708 shares of voting common stock held in escrow by Wells Fargo Bank. In addition, Harbinger has the right to acquire up to 37,894,038 common shares upon the exercise of warrants. Pursuant to the Master Agreement, Harbinger may acquire a significant number of shares of our common stock if our combination with Inmarsat is successful, in order to fund such combination, or if the combination is not successful, pursuant to a shareholder rights offering. If the proposed business combination of SkyTerra and Inmarsat is completed, it is expected that Harbinger would own in excess of 85% of the outstanding voting common stock of the combined entity. The significant concentration of ownership of our common stock by Harbinger and its affiliates may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning 37 Table of Contents stock in companies with controlling stockholders. Harbinger and its affiliates have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation, and any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In light of the foregoing, Harbinger can significantly influence the management of our business and affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination that could be favorable to investors. There is no assurance that the interests of Harbinger are aligned with other holders of our common stock. Shares eligible for future sale could cause the price of our voting common stock to decline. The market price of our voting common stock could decline as a result of future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur. In connection with the closing of the Exchange Transactions in September 2006 and the BCE exchange transaction in January 2007, we issued in excess of 41.4 million shares of our common stock which are covered by effective registration statements. The sale of such shares could have an adverse impact on our stock price. Furthermore, certain of the Harbinger entities have the right to require us to register certain shares of common stock that they hold to facilitate their sale of shares in the public market. Additionally, in connection with the $150 million of notes SkyTerra LP issued to Harbinger in January 2008, we issued ten-year warrants to purchase 9,144,038 shares of our common stock, with an exercise price of $10 per share. In connection with the $150 million and $175 million of 18% Senior Unsecured Notes SkyTerra LP issued to Harbinger in January 2009 and April 2009, respectively, we issued five-year warrants to purchase 28,750,000 shares of our common stock in aggregate, with an initial exercise price of $0.01 per share. Also, pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement between SkyTerra and Harbinger, dated July 24, 2008 (and amended January 7, 2009), that we entered into concurrently with the Master Agreement, Harbinger will be entitled to purchase new shares of our voting common stock for up to $2.4 billion in cash, or such greater amount as Harbinger may determine. The Harbinger stockholders also have the right to require us to register the shares of common stock underlying the Harbinger warrants to facilitate their sale of shares in the public market. The future sale of substantial amounts of our common stock pursuant to any such registration statements could have an adverse impact on our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 