Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below in evaluating our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we and our principal business, the MSV Joint Venture, face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also impair our operations and business, and in particular the MSV Joint Venture. If neither we nor the MSV Joint Venture successfully address any of the risks described below, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and business, and the trading price of our common stock may decline. We cannot assure you that either we or the MSV Joint Venture will successfully address these risks. Risks Associated with the MSV Joint Venture’s Next Generation Business Plan MSV needs substantial further financing to develop and construct its next generation integrated network, but such financing might not be available. The MSV Joint Venture has estimated that the total cost to develop and construct the two satellite components of its integrated network in the United States and Canada, including the costs of the satellites, their launch, launch insurance and associated ground segment will be approximately $1.1 billion. This estimate does not include approximately $250 million to construct a spare satellite that would not be launched (“ground spare”) but is required by its FCC authorization. 8 In addition, the MSV Joint Venture will require significant funds to construct the terrestrial component of its network. The MSV Joint Venture has stated that it plans to pursue a top 50 market terrestrial footprint and expects that each market could require between $20 million and $60 million to establish terrestrial coverage. The MSV Joint Venture has estimated that the total cost to deploy the terrestrial portion of the network could range between $500 million and $2.6 billion, depending on the choice of air interface technology, the number of markets deployed, the scope of the terrestrial build within each market and the targeted service offering (limited mobile, portable or fully mobile). The MSV Joint Venture’s plan for a South American satellite, for which the MSV Joint Venture has also contracted with Boeing, may cause it to incur additional expenditures of approximately $540 million, depending upon how such a plan is pursued. The MSV Joint Venture’s costs could be greater than its current estimates. For example, if the MSV Joint Venture elects to defer payments under its satellite construction contract, and/or if it exercises certain options to buy additional satellites or other equipment or services, its costs for the satellite component of its network will increase, possibly significantly. The cost to build the terrestrial component of its network could be greater, perhaps significantly, than the MSV Joint Venture’s current estimates, depending on changing costs of supplies, market conditions, and other factors over which we and/or the MSV Joint Venture will have no control. The MSV Joint Venture’s projections assume that a portion of the remaining costs associated with constructing the satellite and terrestrial components of its next generation integrated network will be borne in part by one or more technology and strategic partners. If the MSV Joint Venture is not able to enter into agreements with third parties to cover such costs, or if such funding sources are not able to cover such costs, the MSV Joint Venture’s funding requirements will be significantly greater than the MSV Joint Venture currently anticipates. The MSV Joint Venture has not yet entered into any such agreements, and we cannot assure you if and when it will enter into such agreements. In addition to financing from technology and strategic partners, the MSV Joint Venture has stated that it plans to raise future funds by selling debt and equity securities, and by obtaining loans or other credit lines from banks or other financial institutions. The type, timing and terms of financing it may select will depend upon its cash needs, the availability of other financing sources, the prevailing conditions in the financial markets and the restrictions contained in any future indebtedness. We cannot assure you that the MSV Joint Venture will be able to find any such sources at any given time on favorable terms, if at all. If the MSV Joint Venture fails to obtain any necessary financing on a timely basis, then each of the following could occur: • the MSV Joint Venture’s satellite construction, launch, or other events necessary to conduct their business could be materially delayed, or their costs could materially increase; • the MSV Joint Venture could default on its commitments to its satellite construction or launch contractors, creditors or other third parties, leading to termination of construction or inability to launch their satellites; and • the MSV Joint Venture may not be able to launch its next generation integrated network as planned and may have to discontinue operations or seek a purchaser for its business or assets. As a result of these factors, the MSV Joint Venture could lose its FCC or Industry Canada licenses or its international rights if it fails to achieve required performance milestones. If the MSV Joint Venture is successful in raising additional financing, it has stated that it anticipates that a significant portion of future financing will consist of debt securities. As a result, the MSV Joint Venture will be highly leveraged. If additional funds are raised through the incurrence of indebtedness, the MSV Joint Venture may incur significant interest charges and become subject to various restrictions and covenants that could limit its ability to respond to market conditions, provide for unanticipated capital investments or take advantage of business opportunities. 9 The market for the MSV Joint Venture’s service is new and unproven and the success of the MSV Joint Venture’s next generation business will depend on market acceptance. Other than satellite radio, we are not aware of any integrated (i.e., combined satellite and terrestrial) wireless service in commercial operation. Neither the MSV Joint Venture, nor any other company, has developed an integrated next generation network. The MSV Joint Venture’s business plan contemplates that a significant portion of its revenues will be derived from strategic partners. To date, the MSV Joint Venture has not entered into any strategic partnerships with respect to distribution of its next generation integrated network. As a result, the MSV Joint Venture can estimate only with a partial level of certainty the potential demand for such services and the degree to which it will meet that demand. Furthermore, there may not be sufficient demand to enable the MSV Joint Venture, or additional costs that do not allow the MSV Joint Venture, to earn sufficient revenues, achieve sufficient cash flow or record a profit. Among other things, end user acceptance of the MSV Joint Venture’s next generation integrated service will depend upon: • whether the MSV Joint Venture provides integrated wireless services consistent with market demand; • the relative attractiveness of its service offerings to its anticipated partners; • the cost and availability of user equipment whose form factor is little different from standard wireless devices, but incorporates the new technology required to operate on the MSV Joint Venture’s network; • federal, state, local and international regulations affecting the operation of satellite networks and wireless systems; • whether competitors develop new and alternative next generation technologies; and • general and local economic conditions. If the MSV Joint Venture cannot gain market acceptance for its planned products and services, its business will be significantly harmed. The MSV Joint Venture has made, and will continue to make, significant capital investments to generate demand for its services. Accordingly, any material miscalculation with respect to its operating strategy or business plan will harm the MSV Joint Venture’s business. The MSV Joint Venture will depend on one or more third parties to incorporate its technology into their consumer offerings, and such third parties may not be successful or effective in their use of the MSV Joint Venture’s technology. The MSV Joint Venture has adopted a wholesale “carrier’s carrier” business model and does not have plans to manufacture or sell end-user devices to consumers. The success of its network will depend on partnerships with third parties that incorporate its technology into their service and product offerings. In particular, the MSV Joint Venture will not produce transparent wireless handsets for sale to wireless consumers but instead will need to identify and work with its partners and customers to apply its technology to standard wireless handsets and devices that they in turn market. If its partners are not successful in incorporating its technology or marketing devices compatible with its network, the MSV Joint Venture’s revenues would be less than expected, and its business would suffer. The MSV Joint Venture will depend on one or more third party contractors to construct the terrestrial base station component of its next generation integrated network. The MSV Joint Venture currently plans to contract with one or more third parties to construct the terrestrial component of its next generation integrated network. The MSV Joint Venture’s success in implementing its next generation integrated network and in penetrating its targeted vertical markets will depend, to a large extent, on the efforts of these third party contractors. The development and rollout of the terrestrial network by these third parties may be subject to unforeseen delays, cost overruns, regulatory changes, engineering and technological 10 changes and other factors, some of which may be outside of the control of both MSV Joint Venture and us. If the MSV Joint Venture is not able to enter into contracting relationships and construct the terrestrial component of its next generation integrated network, it may not be able to implement its business plan. Failure to develop and supply terminals to customers in a timely manner will delay the MSV Joint Venture’s revenues. The MSV Joint Venture will rely on third party manufacturers and their distributors to manufacture and distribute transparent devices. Transparent devices are not yet available, and the MSV Joint Venture and third party vendors may be unable to develop and produce enough affordable transparent devices in a timely manner to permit the widespread introduction of its service. If the MSV Joint Venture, its customers and its manufacturers fail to develop devices that are completely transparent for timely commercial sale at affordable prices, the launch of its next generation service would be delayed, its revenues would be less than expected, and its business will suffer. The MSV Joint Venture’s integrated wireless network will depend on the development and integration of complex technologies in a satellite configuration that might not work. The MSV Joint Venture’s next generation integrated network will require new applications of existing technology, complex integration of different technologies and the development of new technologies. The MSV Joint Venture will have to integrate a number of sophisticated satellite and other wireless technologies that typically have not been integrated in the past, and some of which are not yet fully developed, before it can begin offering its next generation service. In order for the MSV Joint Venture’s service to be received by traditional consumer devices, additional components and software will need to be added to such devices to adjust for the L-band frequencies as well as satellite communications. Although the MSV Joint Venture intends to test the components of its next generation integrated network, it cannot ultimately confirm the ability of the system to function until it has actually deployed a substantial portion of their next generation integrated network. For example, the MSV Joint Venture’s ground-based beam formation capabilities and the size of the reflectors on its next generation satellites cannot be fully tested until its next generation satellites are launched. Hardware or software errors in space or on the ground may limit or delay its next generation service, and therefore reduce anticipated revenues and the viability of its services. There could also be delays in the planned development, integration and operation of the components of the MSV Joint Venture’s next generation integrated network. If the technological integration of the MSV Joint Venture’s next generation integrated network is not completed in a timely and effective manner, its business would be harmed. In the MSV Joint Venture’s next generation integrated network, it will seek to develop and deploy network management techniques so that mobile devices used on its network will be able to seamlessly transition between satellite mode and terrestrial mode. The MSV Joint Venture has stated that it intends to develop such techniques primarily by adapting existing techniques used in PCS/cellular systems and digital/analog systems. However, such techniques have not been deployed before in a combined satellite/terrestrial system, and there can be no assurances that the MSV Joint Venture will be successful in developing such techniques or deploying them in its next generation integrated network in a cost effective or timely manner. If the MSV Joint Venture is not able to develop or deploy such techniques, mobile devices used on its network may not be able to seamlessly transition between satellite and terrestrial modes, and this may make the MSV Joint Venture’s next generation integrated network less attractive to potential partners and end-user customers. The MSV Joint Venture’s next generation satellites are subject to possible construction and delivery delays, the occurrence of which could materially and adversely affect its business. The MSV Joint Venture’s next generation satellites are subject to possible construction and delivery delays. The manufacture of such satellites is technically complex, and delays could result from a variety of causes, including failure of third-party vendors to perform as anticipated and changes in the technical specifications of the satellite. There can be no assurance that delivery of its next generation satellites will be timely, which may 11 hinder the introduction of the MSV Joint Venture’s planned next generation integrated network. Any delay could also make it more difficult for it to secure desired distribution partnerships. During any period of delay, the MSV Joint Venture would continue to have significant cash requirements that could materially increase the aggregate amount of funding it needs. The MSV Joint Venture may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, during periods of delay. A delay could also require rescheduling of the anticipated launch date, and another launch slot may not be available within a reasonable period of time. In addition, a delay in satellite system operations could also result in revocation of the MSV Joint Venture’s frequency and orbital slot authorizations and its international rights. The MSV Joint Venture’s satellites could be damaged or destroyed during launch or deployment, fail to achieve their designated orbital location after launch or experience significant launch delays. A percentage of satellites never become operational because of, among other factors, launch failure, satellite destruction or damage during launch, improper orbital placement and/or the failure of antennas to fully deploy. Launch failure rates vary depending on the particular launch vehicle and contractor. Even launch vehicles with good track records experience some launch failures, and there can be no assurance that the MSV Joint Venture will be able to launch its satellites on vehicles with higher success rates. If one or more launches or deployments fail, the MSV Joint Venture will suffer significant delays that will be damaging to its business, the MSV Joint Venture will incur significant additional costs associated with the failed launches, and its revenue generating activities will be delayed. We cannot assure you that the MSV Joint Venture’s satellite launches or deployments will be successful. The deployment of large antennas, such as the antennas on its next generation satellites, which are larger than most commercial satellites, pose additional risks during deployment. Even if launched into orbit, a satellite may fail to enter into its designated orbital location, or the MSV Joint Venture may use more fuel than planned to place a satellite into its orbital location and, as a result, may reduce the overall useful life of the satellite. Satellites have a limited useful life and premature failure of the MSV Joint Venture’s satellites could damage its business. During and after their launch, all satellites are subject to equipment failures, malfunctions and other problems. If one of the MSV Joint Venture’s satellites were to fail prematurely, it likely would affect the quality of its service, substantially delay the commencement or interrupt the continuation of its service and harm the MSV Joint Venture’s business and could impact its licenses. This harm to the MSV Joint Venture’s business would continue until it either extended service to their customers on another satellite or built and launched additional satellites. Each of the MSV Joint Venture’s MSAT-1 and MSAT-2 satellites has in the past experienced malfunctions and neither operates at full capacity. The MSV Joint Venture’s satellites could experience future malfunctions at any time, which could damage their ability to serve its customers, harm the MSV Joint Venture’s reputation in the marketplace, reduce the expected useful life of the satellites and possibly adversely affect their government approvals. There can be no assurance that the MSV Joint Venture’s existing satellites will remain operational until such time as it launches its next generation satellites. Any gap could have a material adverse effect on its business and could result in the loss of licenses. The MSV Joint Venture’s ability to generate revenue depends on the lives of its existing and next generation satellites. Each satellite has a limited useful life. A number of factors could decrease the useful lives of the MSV Joint Venture’s satellites to less than what is currently expected, including, without limitation: • defects in construction; • faster than expected degradation of solar panels; • durability of component parts; • loss of fuel on board; 12 • higher than anticipated use of fuel to maintain the satellite’s orbital location or higher than anticipated use of fuel during orbit raising following launch; • random failure of satellite components that are not protected by back-up units; • electromagnetic storms; and • collisions with other objects in space. Damage to the MSV Joint Venture’s satellites may not be fully covered by insurance. The MSV Joint Venture intends to purchase launch and in-orbit insurance policies for its next generation satellites from global space insurance underwriters. If certain material adverse changes in market conditions for full in-orbit insurance were to make it commercially unreasonable for the MSV Joint Venture to maintain full in-orbit insurance, the MSV Joint Venture could forego such insurance. Other adverse changes in insurance market conditions may substantially increase the premiums the MSV Joint Venture will have to pay for such insurance or may preclude the MSV Joint Venture from fully insuring its loss. If the launch of its next generation satellite system is a total or partial failure, the MSV Joint Venture’s insurance may not fully cover its losses, and these failures may also cause insurers to include additional exclusions in the MSV Joint Venture’s insurance policies when they come up for renewal. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available to construct, launch and insure a replacement satellite or, if available, will be available on terms favorable to the MSV Joint Venture. The MSV Joint Venture does not expect to buy insurance to cover, and would not have protection against, business interruption, loss of business or similar losses. Also, any insurance the MSV Joint Venture obtains will likely contain certain customary exclusions and material change conditions that would limit its coverage. The MSV Joint Venture does not have insurance with respect to its existing satellites. Delays in deployment of the MSV Joint Venture’s terrestrial network due to limited tower availability, local zoning approvals or adequate telecommunications transport capacity would delay its revenues. The MSV Joint Venture’s business strategy includes the deployment of a terrestrial network. Tower sites and authorizations in some desirable areas may be very costly and time intensive to obtain. If the MSV Joint Venture is unable to obtain tower space, local zoning approvals or adequate telecommunications transport capacity to develop its network in a timely fashion, the launch of its next generation integrated network would be delayed, the MSV Joint Venture’s revenues would be less than expected and its business would suffer. The MSV Joint Venture’s planned terrestrial network or other ground facilities could be damaged by natural catastrophes or man-made disasters. Since the MSV Joint Venture’s planned terrestrial network will be attached to buildings, towers and other structures around the country, an earthquake, tornado, flood or other catastrophic event or other man-made disaster or vandalism could damage its network, interrupt its service and harm its business in the affected area. The MSV Joint Venture will not have replacement or redundant facilities that can be used to assume the functions of its terrestrial network in the event of a catastrophic event. Any damage to its terrestrial network would likely result in degradation of its service for some subscribers and could result in complete loss of service in some affected areas. Temporary disruptions could also damage the MSV Joint Venture’s reputation and the demand for its services. The MSV Joint Venture may be unable to achieve its business and financial objectives because the communications industry is highly competitive. In seeking market acceptance for its next generation services, the MSV Joint Venture will encounter competition from many sources, including: • existing satellite services from other operators; 13 • conventional terrestrial wireless services; • traditional wireline voice and high-speed data offerings; • terrestrial land-mobile and fixed services; and • next generation integrated services that may be offered in the future by other networks operating in the S-band, L-band or Big Low Earth Orbiting (“LEO”) band. The communications industry includes major domestic and international companies, many of which have financial, technical, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources substantially greater than the MSV Joint Venture does and which provide a wider range of services than will be provided by the MSV Joint Venture. While the MSV Joint Venture has stated that it believes its services will be complementary to terrestrial wireless services, the MSV Joint Venture may be adversely affected by competition from companies that provide services using existing wireless technologies. The MSV Joint Venture may also face competition from companies using new technologies and new integrated networks in the future. For instance, the FCC has authorized ICO and TMI to use radio frequencies for mobile satellite services within the S-band. TMI has agreed to transfer its S-band authorizations to TerreStar. Although these potential competitors currently have no operations in this band, they are planning to launch integrated networks similar to those envisioned by the MSV Joint Venture. Through the MSV Joint Venture’s subsidiary, ATC Technologies LLC, the MSV Joint Venture has also granted TerreStar a license to use its intellectual property for the development of its network. TMI/TerreStar have announced plans to launch a S-band satellite in 2007, in advance of the launches of the MSV Joint Venture’s satellites. Failure to offer next generation integrated services that compete effectively with potential competitors such as TMI/TerreStar would have an adverse impact on the MSV Joint Venture’s revenues, profitability and liquidity. The MSV Joint Venture will also face competition with respect to entering into strategic partnerships. The MSV Joint Venture and its partners must continue to identify, develop and market innovative products or enhance existing products on a timely basis to maintain its profit margins and its competitive position. The MSV Joint Venture’s future growth may depend on its ability to gauge the direction of commercial and technological progress in key markets and on its ability to fund and successfully develop and market products in its markets. The MSV Joint Venture’s competitors may have access to technologies not available to the MSV Joint Venture, which may enable them to provide communications services of greater interest to end users, or at a more competitive cost. The MSV Joint Venture may not be able to develop new products or technology, either alone or with third parties, or license any additional necessary intellectual property rights from third parties on a commercially competitive basis. The satellite and wireless industries are both characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product innovations, changes in customer requirements and expectations and evolving industry standards. If the MSV Joint Venture or its partners are unable to keep pace with these changes, its business may be unsuccessful. Products using new technologies, or emerging industry standards, could make the MSV Joint Venture’s technologies obsolete. If the MSV Joint Venture or its partners fail to keep pace with the evolving technological innovations in its markets on a competitive basis, its financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected. An economic downturn in the United States and Canada or changes in consumer spending could negatively affect the MSV Joint Venture’s results of operations. The MSV Joint Venture expects that the primary customer base for its next generation integrated network will be composed of the customers of its distribution partners and customers within certain vertical markets (for example, public safety, fleet management and consumer telematics). In the event that the United States and Canada experience an economic downturn and spending by end customers drops, the MSV Joint Venture’s business may be negatively affected. 14 Demand for the services the MSV Joint Venture plans to offer may not grow or be accepted generally, or in particular geographic markets, for particular types of services, or during particular time periods. A lack of demand could adversely affect its ability to sell its services, enter into strategic partnerships or develop and successfully market new services. In addition, demand patterns shift over time, and consumer preferences may not favor the services the MSV Joint Venture plans to offer. The MSV Joint Venture may not be able to protect its proprietary information and intellectual property rights, which could limit the growth of its business and impact its ability to compete. As of March 1, 2006, the MSV Joint Venture has filed more than 100 patent applications (each application being filed in the United States and in several countries abroad), acquired 13 patents and two pending patent applications from Celsat related to the provision of next generation integrated network services, and have been issued 9 patents covering the fundamental principles of its next generation integrated technology. There is no assurance that the patents for which the MSV Joint Venture has applied will be issued or, if issued, will be sufficient to fully protect its technology. In addition, there can be no assurance that any patents issued or licensed to the MSV Joint Venture will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Litigation to defend and enforce their intellectual property rights could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations, regardless of the final outcome of such litigation. Despite the MSV Joint Venture’s efforts to safeguard and maintain its proprietary rights, there can be no assurance that the MSV Joint Venture will be successful in doing so or that its competitors will not independently develop or patent technologies equivalent or superior to the MSV Joint Venture’s technologies. The MSV Joint Venture has stated that it believes that third parties may infringe upon its intellectual property now and in the future. The MSV Joint Venture also relies upon unpatented proprietary technology and other trade secrets. While it is the MSV Joint Venture’s policy to enter into confidentiality agreements with its employees and third parties to protect its proprietary expertise and other trade secrets, these agreements may not be enforceable, or, even if legally enforceable, the MSV Joint Venture may not have adequate remedies for breaches of such agreements. The failure of the MSV Joint Venture’s patents or confidentiality agreements to protect its proprietary technology or trade secrets could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins or loss of market share. The MSV Joint Venture may be unable to determine when third parties are using its intellectual property rights without the MSV Joint Venture’s authorization. The undetected or unremedied use of the MSV Joint Venture’s intellectual property rights or the legitimate development or acquisition of intellectual property similar to the MSV Joint Venture’s by third parties could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage it has as a result of its intellectual property, adversely affecting its financial condition and results of operations. If the MSV Joint Venture must take legal action to protect, defend or enforce its intellectual property rights, any suits or proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of its resources and its management’s attention, and the MSV Joint Venture may not prevail in any such suits or proceedings. A failure to protect, defend or enforce the MSV Joint Venture’s intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Third parties may claim that the MSV Joint Venture’s products or services infringe its intellectual property rights, which may cause the MSV Joint Venture to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages, or prevent the MSV Joint Venture from making, using, or selling its products. Other parties may have patents or pending patent applications relating to integrated wireless technology that may later mature into patents. Such parties may bring suit against the MSV Joint Venture for patent or other infringement of intellectual property rights. Although the MSV Joint Venture does not intend to, it may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. If the MSV Joint Venture’s products or services are found to infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others, the MSV Joint Venture may need to obtain licenses from those parties or substantially re-engineer its products or processes in order to avoid infringement. The MSV 15 Joint Venture may not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or be able to re-engineer its products successfully. Moreover, if the MSV Joint Venture is found by a court of law to infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others, the MSV Joint Venture could be required to pay substantial damages or be enjoined from making, using, or selling the infringing products or technology. The MSV Joint Venture could also be enjoined from making, using, or selling the allegedly infringing products or technology, pending the final outcome of the suit. The MSV Joint Venture’s business could be harmed if it cannot attract and retain key personnel. The MSV Joint Venture’s success depends, in large part, upon the continuing contributions of its key technical, marketing, sales and management personnel. The MSV Joint Venture generally does not enter into employment agreements with its employees for fixed terms and does not maintain “key-man” insurance on any of its employees. The loss of the services of several key employees within a short period of time could harm the MSV Joint Venture’s business and its future prospects. The MSV Joint Venture’s future success will also depend on its ability to attract and retain additional management and technical personnel required in connection with the growth and development of its business. Competition for such personnel is intense, and if the MSV Joint Venture fails to retain or attract such personnel its business could suffer. The MSV Joint Venture has entered into arrangements with certain executives which provide for payments upon a change of control, as defined in those agreements. The MSV Joint Venture’s Chief Executive Officer has such an agreement which currently would provide payments to him if he chooses to leave the Company for any reason. Regulatory Risks Associated with the MSV Joint Venture The MSV Joint Venture may not be able to coordinate successfully with other L-band satellite system operators to access and use the full approximately 30 MHz of L-band spectrum. The MSV Joint Venture is required to coordinate the use of its satellites as part of the satellite registration process of the International Telecommunication Union (“ITU”). With respect to the primary frequencies used by commercial GEOs, the ITU rules grant rights to member states (which are the national governments party to the ITU treaty) on a “first-in-time, first-in-right” basis and set forth a process for protecting earlier-registered satellite systems from interference from later-registered satellite systems. To comply with these rules, the MSV Joint Venture must coordinate the operation of its satellites with other satellites. The coordination process may require the MSV Joint Venture to modify its proposed coverage areas, or satellite design or transmission plans, in order to eliminate or minimize interference with other satellites or ground-based facilities. In addition, while the ITU’s rules require later-in-time systems to coordinate their operations with the MSV Joint Venture, the MSV Joint Venture cannot guarantee that other operators will conduct their operations so as to avoid transmitting any signals that would cause harmful interference to the signals that the MSV Joint Venture, or its customers, transmit. Since the MSV Joint Venture’s system became operational in 1996, its spectrum access in North America has been governed by a multi-lateral agreement referred to as the Mexico City Memorandum of Understanding (“Mexico City MoU”) and by bilateral agreements. There are five national administrations, the United States, Canada, Mexico, Russia and the United Kingdom that are party to the Mexico City MoU. The MSV Joint Venture operates under the auspices of the United States and Canada. Accordingly, the MSV Joint Venture must coordinate with operators and their administrations to operate in the L-band and to reconfigure the L-band. Operators might not cooperate in these coordination procedures. Since 1999, there has been no new spectrum sharing agreement among the satellite system operators represented by the five administrations. The MSV Joint Venture has not completed coordination of its new satellites. International coordination could result in an increase or decrease in the amount of spectrum available to the MSV Joint Venture. Moreover, the initial international frequency coordination of the MSV Joint Venture’s system was done for narrowband services and air interfaces. Newer broadband services and air interfaces can take advantage of larger 16 blocks of contiguous spectrum. While some of the MSV Joint Venture’s L-band spectrum is already in sufficiently large contiguous blocks to permit the offering of such new formats, the MSV Joint Venture is engaged in negotiations with other operators to reconfigure the L-band spectrum to maximize and enhance the usability of such spectrum services. Other operators, however, could seek to delay such efforts to reconfigure the L-band to maximize and enhance the use of the band for the provision of new services, including ATC services. For example, Inmarsat recently announced its intention to pursue an MSS/ATC system in the L-band, yet Inmarsat has vigorously opposed the MSV Joint Venture’s ATC application. The failure to reconfigure the L-band into larger blocks of contiguous spectrum will prevent the MSV Joint Venture from maximizing the efficiency and capacity of its next generation integrated network. Moreover, the MSV Joint Venture cannot guarantee that the ITU will not change its rules in the future in a way that could limit or preclude the MSV Joint Venture’s use of some or all of its existing or future orbital locations or frequencies. The MSV Joint Venture may not be able to secure the return of certain spectrum it loaned to Inmarsat. In 1999 and 2003, and consistent with the Mexico City MoU, the MSV Joint Venture loaned approximately 3 MHz of L-band spectrum to Inmarsat for its temporary use. The MSV Joint Venture has initiated steps with the FCC and Industry Canada to confirm its rights to the spectrum but there can be no guarantee that Inmarsat will comply with this effort. If the loaned spectrum is not returned before the deployment of the ATC network, there could be a negative impact on service levels and the numbers of users the MSV Joint Venture’s spectrum could support. As such, over time it could impact the MSV Joint Venture’s business plan. The MSV Joint Venture service may cause or be subject to interference. As a satellite provider, the MSV Joint Venture is required to provide its satellite and ATC service without causing harmful interference to most other spectrum users and the MSV Joint Venture must accept some interference from certain other spectrum users. While the MSV Joint Venture views this as remote, this requirement may potentially hinder the satellite portion of the operation of its system and may, in certain cases, subject its users to a degradation in service quality. Moreover, Inmarsat currently operates satellites that have not been coordinated with the MSV Joint Venture’s and, thus, may interfere with the MSV Joint Venture’s satellites. The MSV Joint Venture is working to minimize the risk of interference, but there is no guarantee it will be successful. The ultimate resolution of pending FCC proceedings could materially affect the MSV Joint Venture’s ability to develop and offer ATC services and have a material adverse effect on the MSV Joint Venture’s next generation business plans. Inmarsat has challenged two FCC orders that may impact the MSV Joint Venture’s ability to maximize the efficiency of its ATC in the L-band, including the November 2004 Application Approval which granted the MSV Joint Venture’s ATC license and the February 2005 Order establishing revised rules for ATC. Inmarsat has objected to the MSV Joint Venture’s pending 2005 application for a modified ATC license to take advantage of the new ATC rules. Inmarsat has consistently asked the FCC to impose technical restrictions on the MSV Joint Venture’s ATC service. These challenges remain pending at the FCC. If these challenges are decided unfavorably to MSV, it may impede or preclude the MSV Joint Venture’s ability to deploy and operate its proposed next generation integrated network. The MSV Joint Venture needs additional regulatory approvals before it can operate ATC. The MSV Joint Venture has an application pending at the FCC to modify its ATC authorization to provide the MSV Joint Venture additional flexibility, including authority for ATC deployments based on Frequency Division Duplex (“FDD”) and Time Division Duplex (“TDD”) using OFDM and OFDMA air interfaces such as 17 WiMax and Flash-OFDM. Inmarsat has challenged certain elements of the modification application, including the request for authority to deploy TDD-based air interfaces. In addition, the MSV Joint Venture will need further regulatory approvals before it can operate ATC, including a blanket license for its user terminals and FCC certification of its user terminals and base stations. The MSV Joint Venture will also need to construct a satellite as a ground spare or receive a waiver from the FCC of its ground spare requirement. The MSV Joint Venture has stated that it intends to request such a waiver based on its plan to use MSV-1 and MSV-2 as in-orbit spares for each other. Any difficulty in obtaining these approvals or such a waiver may delay the commencement of operation of the MSV Joint Venture’s new system. The MSV Joint Venture does not yet have authority from Industry Canada to operate an ATC in Canada. Neither we nor the MSV Joint Venture can provide any assurance if or when it will obtain any of these approvals. A 2002 decision could be construed to limit a portion of the MSV Joint Venture’s operations to using no more than 20 MHz of L-band spectrum. In a 2002 decision, the FCC granted the MSV Joint Venture’s subsidiary, Mobile Satellite Ventures Subsidiary LLC (“MSV Sub”), a license to use up to 20 MHz of L-band spectrum on MSAT-2. That decision also states that spectrum acquired under a future merger between Motient and TMI would be included within the 20 MHz limit. The MSV Joint Venture filed a petition for clarification and partial reconsideration of that decision because the MSV Joint Venture had already been established pursuant to an FCC order in 2001 that had authorized the MSV Joint Venture to use TMI’s spectrum without imposing such spectrum limitations. The MSV Joint Venture has coordinated less than 20 MHz of L-band spectrum for the United States satellites. The MSV Joint Venture believes that, even if it were limited to 20 MHz of spectrum on the United States satellites, it would continue to be able to use all the coordinated spectrum (approximately 30 MHz) on its Canadian satellite and on its integrated network, as well as up to 20 MHz of coordinated spectrum on the United States satellite. The MSV Joint Venture cannot be sure how or when the FCC will dispose of its petition, but subsequent FCC decisions suggest that spectrum licensed to the MSV Joint Venture Canada is not included within the 20 MHz limit. If the FCC decides adversely to the MSV Joint Venture, its United States licensed L-band satellites (MSAT-2 and MSV-1) could be limited to a maximum of 20 MHz, which could reduce the MSV Joint Venture’s ability to offer certain new satellite services. Failure to comply with FCC and Industry Canada rules and regulations could damage the MSV Joint Venture’s business. FCC and Industry Canada rules and regulations, and the terms of the MSV Joint Venture’s satellite authorizations and the MSV Joint Venture’s ATC license from the FCC, require the MSV Joint Venture to meet certain conditions, such as satellite construction and launch milestones, maintenance of satellite coverage of all fifty states, Puerto Rico, and the United States Virgin Islands and the provision of an integrated service offering. Non-compliance by the MSV Joint Venture with these or other conditions, including other FCC or Industry Canada gating criteria, could result in fines, additional license conditions, license revocation, or other adverse FCC or Industry Canada actions. If the supply of available mobile licensed spectrum increases, the value of the MSV Joint Venture’s spectrum assets may decrease. The FCC or Industry Canada could allocate large amounts of additional mobile licensed spectrum that could be used to compete with the MSV Joint Venture, or that could decrease the perceived market value of the MSV Joint Venture’s wireless capacity. The FCC, for example, recently scheduled an auction of 90 MHz of spectrum in the 1.7/2.1 GHz range for June 2006. Additional spectrum auctions may be scheduled in the future. In addition, incremental allocations of spectrum may make it easier for new competitors to enter the market, and could further diminish the value of the MSV Joint Venture’s spectrum assets. 18 Technical challenges or regulatory requirements may limit the attractiveness of the MSV Joint Venture’s spectrum for providing mobile services. The MSV Joint Venture has stated that it believes its L-band spectrum with ATC capability will be attractive to potential partners if its spectrum is at least functionally equivalent to PCS/cellular spectrum. The FCC and Industry Canada require the MSV Joint Venture to provide substantial satellite service throughout the United States and Canada. This requirement may limit the availability of some of the MSV Joint Venture’s spectrum for terrestrial service in some markets at some times. In addition, the MSV Joint Venture must give priority and pre-emptive access to certain other users of the L-band, for example, for safety-related transmissions in the Global Maritime Distress and Safety System and the Aeronautical Mobile Satellite (Route) Service. PCS/cellular spectrum is not constrained by any such requirement. If the MSV Joint Venture is not able to develop technology that allows its partners to use its spectrum in a manner comparable to PCS/cellular operators, it may not be successful in entering into partnership arrangements. The MSV Joint Venture’s ability to offer a primarily fixed service may be limited by the policies of the FCC. The FCC has permitted the MSV Joint Venture to provide fixed services on a non-interference basis, which means that such operations are not permitted to cause interference to various other users of the band and are not permitted to claim protection from such other users. The FCC also has required the MSV Joint Venture fixed services to be offered on an “incidental or ancillary” basis, conditions which the FCC has not defined in this context. The MSV Joint Venture may face difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals for provision of telecommunications services and may face changes in regulation, each of which could adversely affect its operations. The provision of telecommunications services is highly regulated. The MSV Joint Venture may be required to obtain additional approvals from national and local authorities in connection with the services that it currently provides or may wish to provide in the future, including in connection with services associated with the MSV Joint Venture’s next generation integrated network. As a provider of communications services in the United States and Canada, the MSV Joint Venture is subject to the regulatory authority of both the United States and Canada. Violations of laws or regulations may result in various sanctions including fines, loss of authorizations and the denial of applications for new authorizations or for the renewal of existing authorizations Moreover, the MSV Joint Venture may be required to obtain additional approvals from national and local regulatory authorities in connection with the services that it currently provides or wishes to provide in the future. From time to time, governmental entities may impose new conditions on the MSV Joint Venture’s authorizations which could have an effect on its ability to generate revenue and conduct its current and next generation business as currently planned. For example, from time to time, the United States federal government has considered whether to impose fees on the use of frequencies such as the ones the MSV Joint Venture uses to provide its service. If the MSV Joint Venture is required to pay such fees, the MSV Joint Venture may be subject to substantially increased costs. Export control and embargo laws may preclude the MSV Joint Venture from obtaining necessary satellites, parts or data or providing certain services in the future. United States companies and companies located in the United States must comply with United States export control laws in connection with any information, products, or materials that they provide to the MSV Joint Venture relating to satellites, associated equipment and data and with the provision of related services. If these entities cannot or do not obtain the necessary export or re-export authorizations from the United States government, the MSV Joint Venture will be required to obtain such authorizations. It is possible that, in the future, they and the MSV Joint Venture may not be able to obtain and maintain the necessary authorizations, or existing authorizations could be revoked. 19 If the MSV Joint Venture’s manufacturers and the MSV Joint Venture cannot obtain and maintain the necessary authorizations, this failure could adversely affect the MSV Joint Venture’s ability to: • procure new United States-manufactured satellites; • control its existing satellites; • acquire launch services; • obtain insurance and pursue its rights under insurance policies; or • conduct its satellite-related operations. In addition, if the MSV Joint Venture does not properly manage its internal compliance processes and violates United States export laws, the terms of an export authorization, or embargo laws, the violation could make it more difficult, or even impossible, to maintain or obtain licenses and could result in civil or criminal penalties. The MSV Joint Venture’s contractual relationship with potential partners that may operate ATC facilities in the MSV Joint Venture’s next generation integrated network must comply with FCC and Industry Canada rules that require ATC to be integrated with the satellite service and require the MSV Joint Venture, as the license holder, to control ATC operations. The MSV Joint Venture must ensure compliance with the ATC rules of the FCC and Industry Canada. This may require agreements with some partners that provide for a degree of control by the MSV Joint Venture in the operation of its business that may be difficult to negotiate. In addition, the Communications Act and the FCC’s rules require the MSV Joint Venture to maintain legal as well as actual control over the spectrum for which it is licensed. The MSV Joint Venture’s ability to enter into partnering arrangements may be limited by the requirement that the MSV Joint Venture maintains de facto control of the spectrum for which it is licensed. If the MSV Joint Venture is found to have relinquished control without approval from the FCC, the MSV Joint Venture may be subject to fines, forfeitures, or revocation of its licenses. Rules relating to Canadian ownership and control of the MSV Joint Venture Canada are subject to interpretation and change. The MSV Joint Venture Canada is subject to foreign ownership restrictions imposed by the Telecommunications Act (Canada) and the Radiocommunication Act (Canada) and regulations made pursuant to the these Acts. Although the MSV Joint Venture believes that MSV Canada is in compliance with the relevant legislation, there can be no assurance that a future determination by Industry Canada or the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission, or events beyond its control, will not result in MSV Canada ceasing to comply with the relevant legislation. If such a development were to occur, the ability of MSV Canada to operate as a Canadian carrier under the Telecommunications Act (Canada) or to maintain, renew or secure its Industry Canada authorizations could be jeopardized and the MSV Joint Venture’s business could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Generally Fluctuations in our operating results could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: • risks and uncertainties affecting the current and proposed business of the MSV Joint Venture and the mobile satellite services industry; 20 • increased competition in the mobile satellite services industry; and • general economic conditions. As a result of these possible fluctuations, period-to-period comparisons of our financial results may not be reliable indicators of future performance. As a result of our distribution of Hughes Communications, Inc. to our stockholders, our sole businesses are the MSV Joint Venture and TerreStar. Our business has been significantly changed as a result of our distribution to our shareholders of Hughes Communications, Inc. which held all of our assets other than the MSV Joint Venture and TerreStar. The result is that our success is currently tied solely to our ability as an active participant in the MSV Joint Venture to make it, and to a lesser extent TerreStar, successful. The price of our common stock has been volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile, experiencing wide fluctuations. In recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies in the technology sector. Future market movements may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock, particularly in light of the diminished liquidity of our common stock as a result of our delisting from the Nasdaq National Market. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which limits the liquidity and could negatively affect the value of our common stock. Since January 30, 2003, following our delisting from the Nasdaq National Market, price quotations have been available on the OTC Bulletin Board. Delisting from the Nasdaq National Market resulted in a reduction in the liquidity of our common stock. This lack of liquidity may also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital, if necessary, through equity financings. In addition, the delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq National Market resulted in an event of non-compliance under the provisions of our preferred stock. As we have not obtained a waiver of this event of non-compliance, the holders of our preferred stock are entitled to elect a majority of the members of our board of directors. We do not intend to pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently expect to retain our future earnings, if any, for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. The issuance of preferred stock or additional common stock may adversely affect our stockholders. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of our preferred stock and to determine the terms, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by our common stockholders. The voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Similarly, our board may issue additional shares of common stock without any further vote or action by our common stockholders, which would have the effect of diluting common stockholders. An issuance could occur in the context of another public or private offering of shares of common stock or preferred stock or in a situation where the common stock or preferred stock is used to acquire the assets or stock of another company. The issuance of common stock or preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions, investments and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. 21 Anti-takeover provisions could make a third-party acquisition of our company difficult. We are a Delaware corporation. The Delaware General Corporation Law contains provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company. In addition, the holders of our preferred stock have certain rights which could prevent or impair the ability of a third party to acquire control of the company. Shares eligible for future sale could cause our stock price to decline. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur. Furthermore, our preferred stock and Series 1-A and 2-A warrants have the right to require us to register the shares of common stock underlying these securities, which may facilitate their sale of shares in the public market. The future sale of substantial amounts of our common stock pursuant to any such registration statements could have an adverse impact on our stock price. We may suffer adverse consequences if we are deemed to be an investment company. We may suffer adverse consequences if we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. A company may be deemed to be an investment company if it owns investment securities with a value exceeding 40% of its total assets, subject to certain exclusions. Some investments made by us may constitute investment securities under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we were to be deemed an investment company, we would become subject to registration and regulation as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we failed to do so, we would be prohibited from engaging in business or issuing our securities and might be subject to civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance. In addition, certain of our contracts might be voidable, and a court-appointed receiver could take control of our company and liquidate our business. If we registered as an investment company, we would be subject to restrictions regarding our operations, investments, capital structure, governance and reporting of our results of operations, among other things, and our ability to operate as we have in the past would be adversely affected. Although we believe that our investment securities currently do not comprise more than 40% of our total assets, this view is dependent upon our belief that our largest asset, our stake in the MSV Joint Venture, is not an investment security. Should that interest be deemed to be an investment security, then unless an exclusion or safe harbor were available to us, in certain circumstances, we would have to either attempt to purchase operations or business sufficiently large to offset such treatment or, alternatively, reduce our ownership of the MSV Joint Venture as a percentage of our total assets in order to avoid becoming subject to the requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940. There can be no assurances that such transactions, to the extent necessary, could be consummated on satisfactory terms, if at all, and that such transactions would not have an adverse effect on us and the price of our common stock. In addition, contractual or legal restrictions could impair our ability to consummate such a transaction. Moreover, we could incur significant tax liabilities in connection with any such actions. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, is creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from assisting the MSV Joint Venture in revenue-generating activities to compliance activities, which could harm our business prospects. 22 The Apollo Stockholders beneficially own a large percentage of our voting stock. As of December 31, 2005, Apollo Investment Fund IV, L.P., Apollo Overseas Partners IV, L.P., AIF IV/RRRR LLC and AP/RM Acquisition LLC (collectively, the “Apollo Stockholders”) owned an aggregate of 1,745,375 shares of our voting common stock, all of the 8,990,212 shares of our non-voting common stock, all of the 1,199,007 outstanding shares of our preferred stock and all of our outstanding Series 1-A and Series 2-A warrants. Assuming that all outstanding shares of our preferred stock are converted and all Series 1-A warrants and Series 2-A warrants are exercised, as of December 31, 2005, the Apollo Stockholders would beneficially own approximately 63% of our outstanding common stock and 35% of our outstanding voting power on a fully diluted basis. As long as the Apollo Stockholders own at least 100,000 shares of the preferred stock, we are precluded from taking various corporate actions and entering into various transactions without the Apollo Stockholders’ consent. In addition, voting as a separate class, the Apollo Stockholders have the right to elect two of the members of our board of directors and have certain approval rights with respect to additional members of our board of directors in the event that the size of our board of directors is increased. Furthermore, the delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq National Market resulted in an event of non-compliance under the provisions of our preferred stock. As a result, the Apollo Stockholders have the right to elect the majority of our board of directors. Because of the Apollo Stockholders’ large percentage of ownership and their rights as holders of preferred stock, including being entitled to 975,000 votes with respect to the preferred stock, the Apollo Stockholders have significant influence over our management and policies, such as the election of our directors, the appointment of new management and the approval of any other action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including any amendments to our certificate of incorporation and mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, the level of the Apollo Stockholders’ ownership of our shares of common stock and these rights could have the effect of discouraging or impeding an unsolicited acquisition proposal. The Apollo Stockholders are entitled to quarterly cash dividends. In accordance with the terms of our preferred stock, the Apollo Stockholders are entitled to receive quarterly cash dividends at an annual rate of 4.65% of the then current face value to be paid quarterly in arrears commencing with the three months ended September 30, 2004. While we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of approximately $28.0 million as of December 31, 2005, $15.5 million of such cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments was contributed to Hughes pursuant to the separation agreement. The dividend payment will be approximately $5.6 million per year through the mandatory redemption on June 30, 2012 or such earlier time as the terms of the preferred stock are renegotiated. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet these quarterly dividend obligations from existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Even if we are able to satisfy these obligations, the effect of such payments on our cash position may adversely affect our ability to meet our operational payment obligations. We may be required to raise additional capital to meet these obligations or to otherwise reach an agreement with the Apollo Stockholders to modify the terms of these obligations. 