Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Some of the statements in this report and in our 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders, and in particular, statements found in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are often identified by the words "will," "should," "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "hope," or similar expressions. These statements reflect management's current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. There are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control. These factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the factors described below. Our actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements, and accordingly, we can give no assurances that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on our results of operations or financial condition. In view of these uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements that have been made to reflect the occurrence of events after the date hereof. Industry Risks Industry Earnings Cyclicality—Imbalances of supply and demand for containerboard affect the price at which we can sell containerboard and, as a result, could result in lower selling prices and earnings. The price of containerboard could fall if the supply of containerboard available for sale in the market exceeds the demand. The demand for containerboard is driven by market needs for containerboard in the United States and abroad to manufacture corrugated shipping containers. Market needs or demand are driven by both global and U.S. business conditions. If supply exceeds demand, prices for containerboard could decline, resulting in decreased earnings and cash flow. From time to time, we have taken downtime (or slowbacks) at some of our mills to balance our production of containerboard with the market demand for our containerboard, and we may continue to do so in the future. Some of our competitors have also temporarily closed or reduced production at their containerboard mills, some of which could reopen and increase production capacity. This could result in a supply and demand imbalance and cause prices to fall. 10 Competition—The intensity of competition in the containerboard and corrugated packaging industry combined with the commodity nature of containerboard could result in downward pressure on pricing, which could lower earnings. PCA operates in an industry that is highly competitive, with no single containerboard or corrugated packaging producer having a dominant position. Containerboard cannot generally be differentiated by producer, which tends to intensify price competition. The corrugated packaging industry is also sensitive to price fluctuations, as well as other factors including innovation, design, quality and service. To the extent that one or more competitors are more successful with respect to any key competitive factor, our business could be adversely affected. Our products also compete, to some extent, with various other packaging materials, including products made of paper, plastics, wood and various types of metal. The intensity of containerboard competition and the commodity nature of containerboard, plus the intensity of corrugated packaging competition, could lead to a reduction in our market share as well as lower prices for our products, both of which could reduce our earnings. Company Risks Cost of Wood Fiber—Dependence on external wood fiber sources could lead to higher costs and lower earnings for PCA. PCA has supply agreements at market prices for wood fiber to be consumed at three of our four mills on about 370,000 acres of timberland. In addition to these supply agreements, PCA also secures wood fiber from various other sources at market prices. Because we do not own any timberlands, we are more vulnerable to changes in availability of wood fiber in areas adjacent to our mills than those of our competitors who do own timberlands in areas adjacent to their mills, and therefore could face higher wood fiber costs than those competitors, both in terms of the cost of the wood fiber itself as well as the transportation costs to get the wood fiber to our mills. The price for wood fiber has historically fluctuated on a cyclical basis and has often depended on a variety of factors over which we have no control, including environmental and conservation regulations, natural disasters and the weather. Any increase in wood fiber costs could cause our manufacturing costs to increase and our earnings to decrease to a greater extent than those of our competitors who own their own timberlands. Cost of Recycled Fiber—An increase in the cost of recycled fiber could increase our containerboard manufacturing costs and lower our earnings. PCA purchases recycled fiber for use at three of its four containerboard mills. PCA currently purchases, net of recycled fiber generated at its box plants, approximately 400,000 tons of recycled fiber per year. The increase in demand of products manufactured, in whole or in part, from recycled fiber, on a global basis, has caused an occasional tightening in the supply of recycled fiber. These periods of supply and demand imbalance have tended to create significant price volatility. During 2007, recycled fiber costs increased by 56%, or $40 per ton, compared to 2006, resulting in higher operating costs. Periods of above average recycled fiber costs and overall price volatility may continue, which could result in earnings volatility. Cost of Purchased Energy—An increase in the cost of purchased energy, particularly natural gas and oil, could lead to higher manufacturing costs, resulting in reduced earnings. PCA has the capability to use various types of purchased fuels in its manufacturing operations, including coal, bark, natural gas and oil. Energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past and have risen substantially in recent years. These fluctuations 11 impact our manufacturing costs and result in earnings volatility. If energy prices rise, our production costs will increase, which will lead to higher manufacturing costs and reduced earnings. Material Disruption of Manufacturing—A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our results of operation and financial condition. Our business depends on continuous operation of our facilities, particularly at our mills. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including unscheduled maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; explosion of a boiler; labor difficulties; natural catastrophes; terrorism; governmental regulations; and other operational problems. For example, we experienced an unplanned 21/2 day outage at our Counce linerboard mill in October 2007, resulting in 11,000 tons of lost production at a cost of approximately $7.4 million ($4.7 million net of tax). In December, we received $2.4 million ($1.5 million net of tax) in business interruption insurance proceeds. Any material disruption of a primary facility could lead to higher costs and reduced earnings and harm our ability to produce and sell products and service our customers. Environmental Matters—PCA may incur significant environmental liabilities with respect to both past and future operations. We are subject to, and must comply with, a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws, particularly those relating to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. Because environmental regulations are constantly evolving, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to maintain compliance with those laws. Please see Item 1. "Business—Environmental Matters" for certain estimates of expenditures we expect to make for environmental compliance in the next few years. Although we have established reserves to provide for future environmental liability, these reserves may not be adequate. Investment Risks Market Price of our Common Stock—The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 12 