Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Some of the statements in this report and, in particular, statements found in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include statements about our expectations regarding our future liquidity, earnings, expenditures and financial condition. These statements are often identified by the words “will,” “should,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate,” “hope,” or similar expressions. These statements reflect management’s current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. There are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control. These factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the factors described below. Our actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements, and accordingly, we can give no assurances that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on our results of operations or financial condition. In view of these uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements that have been made to reflect the occurrence of events after the date hereof. Industry Risks Industry Cyclicality — Imbalances of supply and demand for containerboard could affect the price at which we can sell containerboard and corrugated products, and as a result, could result in lower selling prices and earnings. The price of containerboard could fall if the supply of containerboard available for sale in the market exceeds the demand. The demand for containerboard is driven by market needs for containerboard in the United States and abroad to manufacture corrugated shipping containers. Market needs or demand are driven by both global and U.S. business conditions. If supply exceeds demand, prices for containerboard and corrugated products could decline, resulting in decreased earnings and cash generated from operations. 8 Table of Contents Competition — The intensity of competition in the containerboard and corrugated packaging industry could result in downward pressure on pricing and volume, which could lower earnings and cash generated from operations. The containerboard and corrugated products industry is highly competitive, with no single containerboard or corrugated packaging producer having a dominant position. Containerboard cannot generally be differentiated by producer, which tends to intensify price competition. The corrugated packaging industry is also sensitive to changes in economic conditions, as well as other factors including innovation, design, quality and service. To the extent that one or more competitors are more successful than we are with respect to any key competitive factor, our business could be adversely affected. Our products also compete, to some extent, with various other packaging materials, including products made of paper, plastics, wood and various types of metal. The intensity of competition could lead to a reduction in our market share as well as lower sales prices for our products, both of which could reduce our earnings and cash flow. Company Risks Cost of Fiber — An increase in the cost of fiber could increase our manufacturing costs and lower our earnings. PCA has supply agreements at market prices for wood fiber to be consumed at our Counce, Tennessee and Valdosta, Georgia mills on approximately 318,000 acres of timberland. In addition to these supply agreements, PCA also secures wood fiber from various other sources at market prices. The market price of wood fiber varies based upon availability, source and the costs of fuels used in the harvesting and transportation of wood fiber. The cost and availability of wood fiber can also be impacted by weather and general logging conditions. PCA purchases recycled fiber for use at three of its four containerboard mills. PCA currently purchases, net of recycled fiber generated at its box plants, 350,000 to 450,000 tons of recycled fiber per year. The amount of recycled fiber purchased each year varies based upon production and the prices of both recycled fiber and wood fiber. The increase in demand of products manufactured, in whole or in part, from recycled fiber, on a global basis, has caused an occasional tightening in the supply of recycled fiber. These periods of supply and demand imbalance have tended to create significant price volatility. Periods of higher recycled fiber costs and unusual price volatility have occurred in the past and may occur again in the future, which could result in lower or volatile earnings. Cost of Purchased Energy and Chemicals — An increase in the cost of purchased energy and chemicals could lead to higher manufacturing costs, resulting in reduced earnings. PCA has the capability to use various types of purchased fuels in its manufacturing operations, including coal, bark, natural gas and oil. Energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past. New and more stringent environmental regulations may discourage, or make more expensive, the use of certain fuels. In addition, costs for key chemicals used in our manufacturing also fluctuate. These fluctuations impact our manufacturing costs and result in earnings volatility. If energy and chemical prices rise, our production costs and transportation costs will increase, which will lead to higher manufacturing costs and reduced earnings. 9 Table of Contents Material Disruption of Manufacturing — A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends on continuous operation of our facilities, particularly at our mills. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within such facilities, could cease operations unexpectedly for a long period of time due to a number of events, including unscheduled maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; fire; explosion of a boiler; labor difficulties; natural catastrophes; terrorism; governmental regulations; and other operational problems. These events could cause us to be unable to service our customers and lead to higher costs and reduced earnings. Environmental Matters — PCA may incur significant environmental liabilities with respect to both past and future operations. We are subject to, and must comply with, a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws, particularly those relating to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. Because environmental regulations are constantly evolving, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to maintain compliance with those laws. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Environmental Matters” for certain estimates of expenditures we expect to make for environmental compliance in the next few years. New and more stringent environmental regulations, including new U.S. Environmental Protection Agency rules relating to industrial boiler emissions known as the Boiler MACT rules, are expected to require us to incur significant additional capital expenditures to modify or replace certain of our boilers. In addition, environmental regulations may increase the cost of our raw materials and purchased energy. Although we have established reserves to provide for known environmental liabilities as of the date of this filing, these reserves may change over time due to the enactment of new environmental laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations, which might require additional significant environmental expenditures. Investment Risks Market Price of our Common Stock — The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. Securities markets worldwide periodically experience significant price declines and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. General Risks Economic Conditions — Our earnings and cash generated from operations could be lower if the economy weakens. Our operations and financial performance are directly impacted by changes in the U.S. economy, and to a lesser extent, by global economic conditions. A weakening in the economy could reduce the demand for our products and ultimately lower our earnings and cash flows. Lower earnings and reduced cash flow could impact our ability to fund operations, capital requirements, and common stock dividend payments. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 10 Table of Contents 