Item 1A: Risk Factors Many of the factors that affect our business and operations involve risk and uncertainty. The following is a summary of the principal risks to an investment in our securities. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us or currently deemed material, could negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition in the future. We face risks associated with significant international operations. We have operations in 40 countries, with approximately 72% of net sales coming from operations outside the U.S. While geographic diversity helps to reduce our exposure to risks in any one country or part of the world, it also means that we are subject to the full range of risks associated with significant international operations, including, but not limited to: o changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies, which may reduce the U.S. dollar value of revenue received from non-U.S. markets or increase the U.S. dollar value of labor or supply costs in those markets; o political or economic instability or changing macroeconomic conditions in the Company's major markets; and o changes in foreign or domestic legal, tax and regulatory requirements resulting in the imposition of new or more onerous trade restrictions, tariffs, embargoes, or exchange or other government controls. We monitor foreign currency exposure to minimize the impact on earnings of foreign currency rate movements through a combination of cost-containment measures, selling price increases and foreign currency hedging of certain costs. We cannot provide assurance, however, that these monitoring activities will succeed in offsetting any negative impact of foreign currency rate movements. Our business is subject to the risks inherent in global manufacturing activities. As we engage in manufacturing on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including, but not limited to: 6 o availability of petroleum-based raw materials, which are subject to price fluctuations, and our ability to control or pass on cost increases to customers; o the rate of migration of garment manufacturing from the U.S., U.K. and Western Europe, and our ability to continue to rapidly expand manufacturing capacity in more cost-effective regions; o product quality or safety issues; o loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites; o environmental events; and o natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, epidemics and other external factors over which we have no control. If we are unable to improve productivity, reduce costs and align manufacturing operations with customers' needs and best manufacturing practices, we may not succeed in executing our business plan. We are committed to continuous productivity improvement and continue to evaluate opportunities to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve global processes, and increase the reliability of order fulfillment and satisfaction of customer needs. In October 2005, we announced a major realignment plan to accomplish those goals (the "2005 Restructuring Program"), which is described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Integration/Restructuring and Other Costs" in Part II, Item 7 of this report, and in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. The 2005 Restructuring Program presents significant organizational challenges, particularly with respect to planned rapid expansion of manufacturing capacity at facilities in Mexico, Central America and Asia Pacific. We can not provide assurance that: o the 2005 Restructuring Program will be implemented in accordance with the planned timetable; o the actual charges incurred will not exceed the estimated charges; or o the full extent of the expected savings will be realized. Our failure to achieve projected levels of efficiencies from cost reduction measures as well as any unanticipated inefficiencies resulting from the 2005 Restructuring Program would adversely affect the presently anticipated savings from implementing the program, which, in turn, would adversely affect our profitability. In addition, our failure to continue to anticipate changes in apparel manufacturing migration trends, and align our manufacturing capacity accordingly while executing the 2005 Restructuring Program, could adversely affect our ability to achieve targeted cost savings. Significant competition in our industry could adversely affect our business. We face vigorous competition around the world, including competition from other large, multinational companies, as well as numerous smaller, more agile regional companies. We face this competition in several aspects of our business, including, but not limited to: o the pricing of products; o promotional activities; and o new product introductions. We may be unable to anticipate the timing and scale of such activities or initiatives by competitors or to successfully counteract them, which could harm our business. In addition, the cost of responding to such activities and initiatives may affect our financial performance in the relevant period. Our ability to compete also depends on whether we can attract and retain key talent, and our ability to protect patent and trademark rights and to defend against related challenges brought by competitors. A failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our growth and profitability. If we are unable to successfully develop and introduce new products, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our growth depends on continued sales of existing products, as well as the successful development and introduction of new products, which face the uncertainty of retail and consumer acceptance and reaction from competitors. In addition, our ability to create new products and to sustain existing products is affected by whether we can: o develop and fund technological innovations, such as those related to our RFID initiatives; o receive and maintain necessary patent and trademark protection; or o successfully anticipate customer needs and preferences. 7 The failure to develop and launch successful new products could hinder the growth of our business. Also, any delay in the development or launch of a new product could result in our not being the first to market, which could compromise our competitive position. Acquisitions may not be successful or we may not be able to identify new acquisition opportunities. Our ability to grow is based, in part, on identifying acquisition opportunities. Failure to find businesses that meet our acquisition criteria could adversely impact our business, financial condition and future growth. Acquisitions have inherent risks, including, but not limited to, whether we can: o successfully integrate the acquired business; o achieve projected synergies and performance targets; and o retain key personnel. Depending on the significance of the acquisition, the failure to achieve expected synergies or projections could have an adverse effect on our results. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year and are likely to continue to vary due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control, such as the elimination of import quotas on apparel textiles. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, who may derive their expectations by extrapolating data from recent historical operating results, the market price of our common stock may decline. Fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and those identified throughout this "Risk Factors" section: o changes in the amount we spend to promote our products; o development of new competitive products by others; o the geographic distribution of our sales; o our responses to price competition; o market acceptance of our products; o changes in quotas on apparel textile imports from China; o changes in apparel manufacturing migration trends; o general industry conditions, in particular, changes in consumer demand for retail and apparel products; and o unanticipated changes in foreign exchange rates; o unanticipated events which disrupt global trade and/or transportation. Due to all of the foregoing factors, and the other risks discussed in this report, reliance should not be placed on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indicator of future performance. If our internal controls over financial reporting do not comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our business and stock price could be adversely affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in all annual reports. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and to report on, management's assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, do not expect that our internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all errors and fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to our costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, involving us have been, or will be detected. These inherent limitations include 8 the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we can not provide assurance that any design will succeed in achieving our stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, our controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Although we have determined that our internal controls over financial reporting were effective as of December 31, 2006, we cannot provide assurance that we or our independent registered accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. A material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting would require us to evaluate our internal controls as ineffective. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not considered adequate, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. The risks described above are not the only risks we face. There can be no assurance that we have correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting our business or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely impact our business. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We assume no obligation (and specifically disclaim any such obligation) to update these Risk Factors or any other forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 