Item 1A: Risk Factors Many of the factors that affect the Company's business and operations involve risk and uncertainty. The following is a summary of the principal risks to an investment in the Company's securities. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to the Company or currently deemed material, could negatively impact its results of operations or financial condition in the future. The Company faces risks associated with significant international operations. The Company has operations in 39 countries, with approximately 70% of net sales coming from operations outside the U.S. While geographic diversity helps to reduce the Company's exposure to risks in any one country or part of the world, it also means that it is subject to the full range of risks associated with significant international operations, including, but not limited to: o changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies, which may reduce the U.S. dollar value of revenue received from non-U.S. markets or increase the U.S. dollar value of labor or supply costs in those markets; o political or economic instability or changing macroeconomic conditions in the Company's major markets; and o changes in foreign or domestic legal, tax and regulatory requirements resulting in the imposition of new or more onerous trade restrictions, tariffs, embargoes, exchange or other government controls. The Company monitors foreign currency exposure to minimize the impact on earnings of foreign currency rate movements through a combination of cost-containment measures, selling price increases and foreign currency hedging of certain costs. The Company cannot provide assurance, however, that these monitoring activities will succeed in offsetting any negative impact of foreign currency rate movements. 6 The Company's business is subject to the risks inherent in global manufacturing activities. As a company engaged in manufacturing on a global scale, Paxar is subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including, but not limited to: o availability of petroleum-based raw materials, which are subject to price fluctuations, and the Company's ability to control or pass on cost increases to customers; o the rate of migration of garment manufacturing from the U.S., U.K. and Western Europe, and the Company's ability to continue to rapidly expand manufacturing capacity in developing markets; o product quality or safety issues; o loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites; o environmental events; and o natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, epidemics and other external factors over which the Company has no control. If the Company is unable to improve productivity, reduce costs and align manufacturing operations with customers' needs and best manufacturing processes, the Company may not succeed in executing its business plan. The Company is committed to continuous productivity improvement and continues to evaluate opportunities to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve global processes, and increase the reliability of order fulfillment and satisfaction of customer needs. In October 2005, the Company announced a major realignment plan to accomplish those goals (the 2005 Restructuring Program), which is described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - "Integration/Restructuring and Other Costs" in Part II, Item 7 of this report, and in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. This program presents significant organizational challenges, particularly with respect to planned rapid expansion of manufacturing capacity and facilities in Mexico, Central America and Asia Pacific. The Company can not provide assurance that: o the 2005 Restructuring Program will be implemented in accordance with the planned timetable; o the actual charges incurred will not exceed the estimated charges; or o the full extent of the expected savings will be realized. The Company's failure to achieve projected levels of efficiencies from cost reduction measures as well as any unanticipated inefficiencies resulting from the 2005 Restructuring Program, would adversely affect the presently anticipated benefit from implementing the program, which, in turn, would adversely affect the Company's profitability. Significant competition in the Company's industry could adversely affect its business. Paxar faces vigorous competition around the world, including competition from other large, multinational companies, as well as smaller, agile regional companies. The Company faces this competition in several aspects of its business, including, but not limited to: o the pricing of products; o promotional activities; and o new product introductions. The Company may be unable to anticipate the timing and scale of such activities or initiatives by competitors or to successfully counteract them, which could harm its business. In addition, the cost of responding to such activities and initiatives may affect the Company's financial performance in the relevant period. Paxar's ability to compete also depends on whether it can attract and retain key talent, and its ability to protect patent and trademark rights and to defend against related challenges brought by competitors. A failure to compete effectively could adversely affect the Company's growth and profitability. If the Company is unable to successfully develop and introduce new products, its financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The Company's growth depends on continued sales of existing products, as well as the successful development and introduction of new products, which face the uncertainty of retail and consumer acceptance and reaction from competitors. In addition, the Company's ability to create new products and to sustain existing products is affected by whether it can: 7 o develop and fund technological innovations, such as those related to Paxar's RFID initiatives; o receive and maintain necessary patent and trademark protection; or o successfully anticipate customer needs and preferences. The failure to develop and launch successful new products could hinder the growth of Paxar's business. Also, any delay in the development or launch of a new product could result in the Company not being the first to market, which could compromise its competitive position. Acquisitions may not be successful, or the Company many not be able to identify new acquisition opportunities. The Company's ability to grow is based, in part, on identifying acquisition opportunities. Failure to find businesses that meet Paxar's acquisition criteria could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and future growth. Acquisitions have inherent risks, including, but not limited to, whether it can: o successfully integrate the acquired business; o achieve projected synergies and performance targets; and o retain key personnel. Depending on the significance of the acquisition, the failure to achieve expected synergies or projections could have an adverse effect on the Company's results. The Company's operating results and financial condition may fluctuate. Paxar's operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year and are likely to continue to vary due to a number of factors, many of which are not within the Company's control, such as the elimination of import quotas on apparel textiles. If the Company's operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, who may derive their expectations by extrapolating data from recent historical operating results, the market price of Paxar's common stock may decline. Fluctuations in Paxar's operating results and financial condition may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and those identified throughout this "Risk Factors" section: o changes in the amount the Company spends to promote its products; o development of new competitive products by others; o the geographic distribution of the Company's sales; o the Company's responses to price competition; o market acceptance of the Company's products o changes in quotas on apparel textile imports from China; o general industry conditions, in particular, changes in consumer demand for retail and apparel products; o general economic conditions, including changes in interest rates affecting returns on cash balances and investments, as well as changes in foreign exchange rates; and o the Company's level of research and development activities. Due to all of the foregoing factors, and the other risks discussed in this report, reliance should not be placed on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of the Company's operating results as an indicator of future performance. If the Company's internal controls over financial reporting do not comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Paxar's business and stock price could be adversely affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires the Company to evaluate the effectiveness of its internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of its internal controls over financial reporting in all annual reports. Section 404 also requires the Company's independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and to report on, management's assessment of its internal controls over financial reporting. The Company's management, including Paxar's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that its internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all error and fraud. A control system, no 8 matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, involving Paxar have been, or will be detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and the Company can not provide assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, Paxar's controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Although management has determined, and the Company's independent registered public accounting firm has attested, that the Company's internal controls over financial reporting were effective as of December 31, 2005, the Company can not provide assurance that management or its independent registered accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in the Company's internal controls in the future. A material weakness in the Company's internal controls over financial reporting would require management and its independent registered public accounting firm to evaluate the Company's internal controls as ineffective. If the Company's internal controls over financial reporting are not considered adequate, the Company may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on its business and stock price. The risks described above are not the only risks the Company faces. There can be no assurance that the Company has correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting its business or that the publicly available and other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently believes to be immaterial also may adversely impact its business. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on Paxar's business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company assumes no obligation (and specifically disclaims any such obligation) to update these Risk Factors or any other forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 