Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. We have described below significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial performance and condition or industry. You should carefully consider these factors, together with all of the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with the SEC, before making any investment decision about our securities. Adverse developments or changes related to any of the factors listed below could affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth. Our businesses can be adversely affected by economic and financial conditions, including restrictive lending practices, and are cyclical in nature. Prolonged periods of weak product demand or excess product supply may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The markets that we serve, including, in particular, the housing and construction-based markets, are affected by economic conditions, the availability of credit, lending practices, interest rates, the unemployment rate and consumer confidence. An increase in interest rates, continued high levels of unemployment, continued restrictive lending practices, a decrease in consumer confidence or other adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our businesses are also affected by a variety of other factors beyond our control, including the inventory of unsold homes, which remains at an historically high level, the level of foreclosures, home resale rates, housing affordability, office and retail vacancy rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Our businesses are cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, including, in particular, conditions in the North American housing and construction-based markets, which are our most significant markets. Housing starts in the United States, which are a major source of demand for our products and services, increased 6% in 2010 after declining in each of the previous three years but remain near the lowest levels recorded in the last 50 years. Most industry analysts have forecast improvement in the level of new home construction in 2011, but new home construction may not improve much, if at all, from the 2010 level if high unemployment continues, the inventory of unsold homes and foreclosures remain at their current levels, tight mortgage lending policies continue or mortgage interest rates continue to increase in 2011. In December 2010, the annualized rate of housing starts was reported by the U.S. Census Bureau to be 529,000 units. Industry analysts’ forecasts for new home construction in the United States in 2011 are for a range of from 590,000 to 770,000 units. We currently estimate that 2011 housing starts will be approximately 680,000 units. The repair and remodel market includes renovation of both residential and nonresidential buildings. As a result of the low levels of new home construction in recent years, this market currently accounts for the largest portion of our sales. Many buyers begin to remodel an existing home within two years of purchase. According to the National Association of Realtors, sales of existing homes in the United States decreased to approximately 4.9 million units in 2010, the lowest level since 1997 and a 4.8% decrease from the 2009 level of 5.2 million units. Sales of existing homes had increased in 2009 after decreasing in each of the previous two years from a high of 6.5 million units in 2006. The low levels of existing home sales in recent years, continued concerns regarding the job market and home resale values and tight lending standards contributed to a decrease in demand for our products from the residential repair and remodel market in 2010. Nonresidential repair and remodel activity is driven by factors including lease 7 Table of Contents turnover rates, discretionary business investment, job growth and governmental building-related expenditures. We currently estimate that overall repair and remodel spending in 2010 increased approximately 1% above the 2009 level and that overall repair and remodel spending in 2011 will be approximately 3% above the 2010 level. Demand for our products from new nonresidential construction is determined by floor space for which contracts are signed. Installation of gypsum and ceilings products typically follows signing of construction contracts by about a year. According to McGraw-Hill Construction, total floor space for which new nonresidential construction contracts in the United States were signed declined 18% in 2010 compared with 2009. This followed a 44% decrease in 2009 compared with 2008. McGraw-Hill Construction forecasts that total floor space for which new nonresidential construction contracts in the United States are signed will increase approximately 8% in 2011 from the 2010 level. Prices for our products are affected by overall supply and demand in the markets for our products and our competitors’ products. Market prices of building products historically have been volatile and cyclical. Currently, there is significant excess wallboard production capacity industry wide in the United States. Industry capacity in the United States was approximately 32.9 billion square feet as of December 31, 2010. Industry shipments of wallboard in the United States (including imports) were an estimated 17.3 billion square feet in 2010 compared with 18.4 billion square feet in 2009. Prolonged continuation of weak demand or excess supply in any of our businesses may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We cannot predict the duration of the current market conditions, or the timing or strength of any future recovery of the North American housing and construction-based markets. We also cannot provide any assurances that those markets will not weaken further, or that further operational adjustments will not be required to address market conditions. Continued weakness in these markets and the homebuilding industry may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Because we operate in a variety of geographic markets, our businesses are subject to the economic conditions in each of these geographic markets. Those conditions vary regionally, with emerging markets generally recovering from the economic downturn more rapidly than developed regions. General economic downturns or localized downturns in the regions where we have operations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our customers and suppliers are exposed to risks associated with the economic downturn and financial conditions that could adversely affect their payment of our invoices or the continuation of their businesses at the same level. The businesses of many of our customers and suppliers are exposed to risks related to the current economic environment. A number of our customers and suppliers have been and may continue to be adversely affected by unsettled financial conditions in their markets, disruptions to the capital and credit markets and decreased demand for their products and services. In the event that any of our large customers or suppliers, or a significant number of smaller customers and suppliers, are adversely affected by these risks, we may face disruptions in supply, further reductions in demand for our products and services, failure of customers to pay invoices when due and other adverse effects that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 8 Table of Contents Our substantial indebtedness may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. As of December 31, 2010, we had $2.331 billion ($2.308 billion, net of debt discount of $23 million) of indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness may have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and operating results, including to • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt service obligations, • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general operating requirements, • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, debt service obligations and other general corporate requirements, • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or taking advantage of favorable business opportunities, • place us at a relative competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt, • limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate, which may adversely affect our operating results and ability to meet our debt service obligations, • increase our vulnerability to the current and potentially more severe adverse general economic and industry conditions, and • limit our ability, or increase the cost, to refinance our indebtedness. If we incur additional indebtedness, the risks related to our substantial indebtedness may intensify. We require a significant amount of liquidity to service our indebtedness and fund operations, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, acquisitions and other corporate expenditures. Our ability to fund operations, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, acquisitions and other corporate expenditures, including repayment of our indebtedness, depends on our ability to generate cash through future operating performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We cannot ensure that our businesses will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings or other financing will be available to us in an amount sufficient to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other needs. We are required to post letters of credit or cash as collateral primarily in connection with our hedging transactions, insurance programs and bonding activities. The amounts of collateral we are required to post may vary based on our financial position and credit ratings. Use of letters of credit as collateral reduces our borrowing availability under our domestic revolving credit agreement and, therefore, like the use of cash as collateral, reduces our overall liquidity and our ability to fund other business activities. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to fund our needs, we may need to pursue one or more alternatives, such as to • curtail operations further, • reduce or delay planned capital expenditures, research and development or acquisitions, • seek additional financing or restructure or refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness at or before maturity, 9 Table of Contents • sell assets or businesses, and • sell additional equity. Any curtailment of operations, reduction or delay in planned capital expenditures, research and development or acquisitions, or any sales of assets or businesses, may materially and adversely affect our future revenue prospects. In addition, we cannot ensure that we will be able to raise additional equity capital, restructure or refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Covenant restrictions under the agreements governing our indebtedness may limit our ability to pursue business activities or otherwise operate our business. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain covenants that may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities, including, among other things, our ability to • incur additional indebtedness, • make guarantees, • sell assets or make other fundamental changes, • engage in mergers and acquisitions, • make investments, • enter into transactions with affiliates, • change our business purposes, and • enter into sale and lease-back transactions. In addition, we are subject to agreements that may require us to meet and maintain certain financial ratios and tests, which may require that we take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our current or future business plans. General business and economic conditions may affect our ability to comply with these covenants or meet those financial ratios and tests. A breach of any of our credit agreement or indenture covenants or failure to maintain a required ratio or meet a required test may result in an event of default under those agreements. This may allow the counterparties to those agreements to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If this occurs, we may not be able to refinance the accelerated indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, or repay the accelerated indebtedness. The loss of sales to one or more of our major customers may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We face strong competition for our major customers. If one or more of our major customers reduces, delays or cancels substantial orders, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected, particularly for the period in which the reduction, delay or cancellation occurs and also possibly for subsequent periods. 10 Table of Contents We face competition in each of our businesses. If we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. We face competition in each of our businesses. Principal methods of competition include quality and range of products, service, location, pricing, compatibility of systems and product design features. Actions of our competitors, or the entry of new competitors in our markets, could lead to lower pricing by us in an effort to maintain market share and could also lead to lower sales volumes. To achieve and/or maintain leadership positions in key product categories, we must continue to develop brand recognition and loyalty, enhance product quality and performance, introduce new products and develop our manufacturing and distribution capabilities. We also compete through our use and improvement of information technology. In order to remain competitive, we need to provide customers with timely, accurate, easy-to-access information about product availability, orders and delivery status using state-of-the-art systems. While we have provided manual processes for short-term failures and disaster recovery capability, a prolonged disruption of systems or other failure to meet customers’ expectations regarding the capabilities and reliability of our systems may materially and adversely affect our operating results, particularly during any prolonged period of disruption. We intend to continue making investments in research and development to develop new and improved products and more efficient production methods in order to maintain our market leadership position. If we do not make these investments, or our investments are not successful, our revenues, operating results and market share could be adversely affected. In addition, there can be no assurance that revenue from new products or enhancements will be sufficient to recover the research and development expenses associated with their development. If costs of key raw materials, energy, fuel or employee benefits increase, or the availability of key raw materials and energy decreases, our cost of products sold will increase and our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. The cost and availability of raw materials and energy are critical to our operations. For example, we use substantial quantities of gypsum, wastepaper, mineral fiber, steel, perlite, starch and high-pressure laminates. The cost of certain of these items has been volatile, and availability has sometimes been limited. We obtain some of these materials from a limited number of suppliers, which increases the risk of unavailability. We may not be able to pass increased raw material prices on to our customers in the future if the market or existing agreements with our customers do not allow us to raise the prices of our finished products. If price adjustments for our finished products significantly trail the increase in raw material prices or if we cannot effectively hedge against price increases, our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Wastepaper prices are affected by market conditions, principally supply. We buy various grades of wastepaper, and shortages occur periodically in one or more grades and may vary among geographic regions. As a result, we have experienced, and expect in the future to experience, volatility in wastepaper availability and its cost, affecting the mix of products manufactured at particular locations or the cost of producing them. Steel is used as the primary raw material in ceiling grid. Steel prices have been volatile, and there is no guarantee that we can pass on higher steel costs to our customers in the form of higher ceiling grid prices. Approximately one-third of the gypsum used in our plants is synthetic gypsum, which is a coal-combustion byproduct, or CCB, resulting primarily from flue gas desulphurization carried out by electric generation or industrial plants burning coal as a fuel. Seven of our 19 gypsum wallboard plants in operation use synthetic gypsum for all of their needs, while another five use it for some of their needs. The suppliers of synthetic gypsum are primarily power companies, which are required under federal environmental regulations to operate scrubbing equipment for their coal-fired generating plants. 11 Table of Contents Environmental regulatory changes or changes in methods used to comply with environmental regulations could adversely affect the price and availability of synthetic gypsum. The U.S. EPA currently classifies synthetic gypsum as a non-hazardous waste. In June 2010, in the wake of a December 2008 coal ash spill from a surface impoundment in Kingston, Tenn. (operated by an unrelated third party), the U.S. EPA proposed two alternative regulations that would address the storage and disposal of all CCBs, including synthetic gypsum. One of the proposed regulations would regulate the transportation, storage and disposal of CCBs as “special” waste, except when they are “beneficially used.” The U.S. EPA has stated that synthetic gypsum used in wallboard is considered a “beneficial use,” although the proposed regulation does not specifically address the regulatory status of synthetic gypsum prior to its incorporation into wallboard or at the time such wallboard ultimately is disposed. The comment period on the U.S. EPA’s proposed rules ended on November 19, 2010. If the U.S. EPA adopts a final regulation that affects the use, storage or disposal of synthetic gypsum, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. This effect would depend on, among other things, the regulation’s impact, if any, on the cost or supply of synthetic gypsum used in manufacturing wallboard and the demand for wallboard made with synthetic gypsum. Energy costs also are affected by various market factors, including the availability of supplies of particular forms of energy, energy prices and local and national regulatory decisions. Prices for natural gas and electrical power, which are significant components of the costs associated with production of our gypsum and interior systems products, have both become more volatile in recent years. There may be substantial increases in the price, or a decline in the availability, of energy in the future, especially in light of instability or possible dislocations in some energy markets. In addition, significant increases in the cost of fuel can result in material increases in the cost of transportation, which could materially and adversely affect our operating profits. As is the case with raw materials, we may not be able to pass on increased costs through increases in the prices of our products. In addition, our profit margins are affected by costs related to maintaining our employee benefit plans (pension and medical insurance for active employees and retirees). The recognition of costs and liabilities associated with these plans for financial reporting purposes is affected by the level of interest rates and assumptions made by management and used by actuaries engaged by us to calculate the projected and accumulated benefit obligations and the annual expense recognized for these plans. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates primarily include discount rates, expected return on plan assets for the funded plans, compensation increase rates, retirement rates, mortality rates and, for postretirement benefits, health care cost trend rates. Economic and market factors and conditions could affect any of these assumptions and may affect our estimated and actual employee benefit plan costs and our business, financial condition and operating results. Fluctuations in the market price of natural gas may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We use natural gas extensively in the production of gypsum and interior systems products in the United States, Canada and Mexico. As a result, our profitability, operating cash flows and future rate of growth are highly dependent on the price of natural gas, which historically has been very volatile and is affected by numerous factors beyond our control. We are not always able to pass on increases in energy costs to our customers through increases in product prices. In an attempt to reduce our price risk related to fluctuations in natural gas prices, we periodically enter into hedging agreements. We benefit from the hedge agreements when spot prices exceed contractually specified prices. During 2009 and 2010, however, the market price for natural gas declined, and we were more limited in our ability to take advantage of decreasing market prices than some of our competitors. We include options as part of our hedging strategy to provide protection if gas prices increase significantly while allowing us to take advantage of lower gas prices. Any substantial or extended decline in prices of, or demand for, natural gas could cause our production costs to be greater than those of our competitors. Similarly, our increased use of options could cause our production costs to be greater than those of our competitors if the strike price of the option is set above the market. A significant production cost differential could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 12 Table of Contents In addition, the results of our hedging agreements could be positive, neutral or negative in any period depending on price changes in the hedged exposures. Further, changes to the price of natural gas could result in changes to the value of our hedging contracts, which could impact our results of operations for a particular period. Our hedging activities are not designed to mitigate long-term natural gas price fluctuations and, therefore, will not protect us from long-term natural gas price increases. Certain of our customers have been expanding and may continue to expand through consolidation and internal growth, thereby possibly developing increased buying power, which may materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial position. Certain of our important customers are large companies with significant buying power. In addition, potential further consolidation in our distribution channels could enhance the ability of certain of our customers to seek more favorable terms, including pricing, for the products that they purchase from us. Accordingly, our ability to maintain or raise prices in the future may be limited, including during periods of raw material and other cost increases. If we are forced to reduce prices or to maintain prices during periods of increased costs, or if we lose customers because of pricing or other methods of competition, our revenues, operating results and financial position may be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to environmental and safety laws and regulations that may change. These laws and regulations could cause us to make modifications to how we manufacture and price our products. They and the effects of climate change could also require that we make significant capital investments or otherwise increase our costs. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment and occupational health and safety, including laws regulating air emissions, wastewater discharges, the management and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, and the health and safety of our employees. We are also required to obtain permits from governmental authorities for certain operations. If we were to fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could incur fines, penalties or other sanctions. In addition, we could be held responsible for costs and damages arising from any contamination at our past or present facilities or at third-party waste disposal sites. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials. Environmental laws and regulations tend to become more stringent over time, and we could incur material expenses relating to compliance with future environmental laws. As noted above, the U.S. EPA is considering a regulation that could affect the classification, use, storage and disposal of synthetic gypsum. In addition, the price and availability of certain of the raw materials that we use may vary in the future as a result of environmental laws and regulations affecting our suppliers. An increase in the price of our raw materials, a decline in their availability or future costs relating to our compliance with environmental laws and regulations may materially and adversely affect our operating margins or result in reduced demand for our products. The U.S. Congress and several states are considering proposed legislation to reduce emission of “greenhouse gases,” including carbon dioxide and methane. Some states have already adopted greenhouse gas regulation or legislation. In December 2009, the U.S. EPA issued its findings that certain greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, endanger the public health and welfare. Subsequently, the U.S. EPA issued two rules that will make greenhouse gas emissions from both stationary and mobile sources subject to regulation under the existing federal Clean Air Act. In April 2010, the U.S. EPA, jointly with the U.S. Department of Transportation’s National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, issued a rule that will regulate tailpipe greenhouse gas emissions by light-duty vehicles in the model years 2012 to 2016. In May 2010, the U.S. EPA adopted rules to phase in requirements for all new or modified “stationary sources” that emit 100,000 tons of greenhouse gases per year, or modified sources that increase emissions by 75,000 tons per year, to annually obtain permits demonstrating that they are incorporating the “best available control technology” to minimize greenhouse gas emissions. These rules would affect all of our U.S. wallboard and ceiling tile plants and paper mills and are the subject of pending legal challenges that have been filed by certain interested parties, including states, industry groups and environmental organizations, in the U.S. Court of 13 Table of Contents Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. If these rules withstand challenge, they could require that we incur significant costs to satisfy permitting requirements. In addition, enactment of new climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives by Congress or various states, or the adoption of additional regulations by the U.S. EPA and analogous state or foreign governmental agencies that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which we conduct business, could have an adverse effect on our operations and demand for our services or products. For example, our manufacturing processes, particularly the manufacturing process for wallboard, use a significant amount of energy, especially natural gas. Increased regulation of energy use to address the possible emission of greenhouse gases and climate change could materially increase our manufacturing costs. From time to time, legislation has been introduced proposing a “carbon tax” on energy use or establishing a so-called “cap and trade” system. Such legislation would almost certainly increase the cost of energy used in our manufacturing processes. If energy becomes more expensive, we may not be able to pass these increased costs on to purchasers of our products. It is difficult to accurately predict if or when currently proposed or additional laws and regulations regarding emissions and other environmental concerns will be enacted or what capital expenditures might be required as a result of them. Stricter regulation of emissions might require us to install emissions control or other equipment at some or all of our manufacturing facilities, requiring significant additional capital investments. Some of our manufacturing plants are located in coastal areas to receive ocean shipments of gypsum rock. If sea levels rise or storm severity increases significantly because of climate change, significant capital investments could be required to structurally reinforce some of these plants and/or to upgrade their dock facilities. Also, climate change could cause drought conditions and increase the cost of securing water for use in our manufacturing processes, although the increase, if any, likely would vary significantly from location to location. If the downturn in the markets for our businesses does not significantly reverse or is significantly extended, we may incur material impairment charges. We have been scaling back our operations in response to market conditions since the downturn began in 2006. Since mid-2006, we have temporarily idled or permanently closed approximately 3.8 billion square feet of our highest-cost wallboard manufacturing capacity. As a result, during the four-year period ended December 31, 2010, we recorded long-lived asset impairment charges aggregating $67 million for six permanently closed and four temporarily idled gypsum wallboard production facilities and two permanently closed and two temporarily idled paper production facilities. Historically, the housing and other construction markets that we serve have been deeply cyclical. Downturns in demand are typically steep and last several years, but they have typically been followed by periods of strong recovery. If the recovery from this cycle results in increases in demand similar to those realized in recoveries from past cycles, we believe we will generate significant cash flows when our markets recover. We regularly monitor forecasts prepared by external economic forecasters and review our facilities and other assets to determine which of them, if any, are impaired under applicable accounting rules. In 2010, we recorded long-lived asset impairment charges of $58 million related to (1) a gypsum wallboard production facility in Southard, Okla., that was permanently closed, (2) the carrying values of machinery, equipment and buildings at our previously idled and now permanently closed gypsum wallboard production facilities in Fort Dodge, Iowa, and Jacksonville, Fla., and paper production facilities in Clark, N.J., and South Gate, Calif., and (3) the carrying values of machinery, equipment and buildings at our temporarily idled gypsum wallboard production facilities in Stony Point, N.Y., Baltimore, Md., and Jacksonville, Fla., and our temporarily idled paper production facility in Jacksonville, Fla. The carrying values of the machinery, equipment and buildings at these temporarily idled production facilities exceeded the estimated future undiscounted cash flows for their remaining useful lives due to the extended downturn in our markets and our forecasts regarding the timing and rate of recovery in those markets. Because we believe that a significant recovery in the housing and other construction markets we serve is likely to begin in the next two to three years, we determined that there were no other impairments of our long-lived assets during 2010. 14 Table of Contents However, if the downturn in our markets does not significantly reverse or the downturn is significantly further extended, material write-downs or impairment charges may be required in the future. If these conditions were to materialize or worsen, or if there is a fundamental change in the housing and other construction markets we serve, which individually or collectively lead to a significantly extended downturn or decrease in demand, we may permanently close additional production and distribution facilities and material restructuring and impairment charges may be necessary. The magnitude and timing of those possible charges would be dependent on the severity and duration of the extended downturn, should it materialize, and cannot be determined at this time. Any material cash or noncash restructuring or impairment charges, including write-downs of property, plant and equipment, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We will continue to monitor economic forecasts and their effect on our facilities to determine whether any of our assets are impaired. A small number of our stockholders could significantly influence our business and affairs. Based on filings made with the SEC and other information available to us, we believe that, as of January 31, 2011, seven organizations collectively controlled over 50% of our common stock. Also, all of our 10% convertible senior notes are currently held by two of our largest stockholders. At the current conversion price of $11.40 per share, the notes are convertible into approximately 35.1 million shares of our common stock, or approximately 25% of the shares that would be outstanding if all of the notes were converted at that price. Accordingly, a small number of our stockholders could affect matters requiring approval by stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of potential business combination transactions. If we experience an “ownership change” within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code, utilization of our net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards would be subject to an annual limitation. The Internal Revenue Code imposes limitations on a corporation’s ability to utilize NOLs to reduce its federal income taxes if it experiences an “ownership change.” In general terms, an ownership change may result from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. If we were to experience an ownership change, utilization of our NOLs would be subject to an annual limitation determined by multiplying the market value of our outstanding shares of stock at the time of the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate (which was 3.67% for December 2010). Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years within the allowed NOL carryforward period. The amount of the limitation may, under certain circumstances, be increased or decreased by built-in gains or losses held by us at the time of the change that are recognized in the five-year period after the change. Many states have similar limitations. If an ownership change had occurred as of December 31, 2010, our annual U.S. federal NOL utilization would have been limited to approximately $64 million per year. We may pursue acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions that complement or expand our businesses. We may not be able to complete proposed transactions, and even if completed, the transactions may involve a number of risks that may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. During the past several years, we have completed a number of acquisitions and joint venture arrangements. As business conditions warrant and our financial resources permit, we may pursue opportunities to acquire businesses or technologies and to form joint ventures that we believe could complement, enhance or expand our current businesses or product lines or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. We may have difficulty identifying appropriate opportunities, or if we do identify opportunities, we may not be successful in completing transactions for a number of reasons. Any transactions that we are able to identify and complete may involve one or more of a number of risks, including • the diversion of management’s attention from our existing businesses to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or joint venture, 15 Table of Contents • possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process, • failure of the acquired business or joint venture to achieve expected operational, profitability and investment return objectives, and • inability to achieve other intended objectives of the transaction. In addition, we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage our newly acquired operations or their employees. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, which may lead to operational inefficiencies. In addition, future acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of additional indebtedness. The seasonal nature of our businesses may materially and adversely affect the trading prices of our securities. A majority of our businesses are seasonal, with peak sales typically occurring from spring through the middle of autumn. Quarterly results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. Those variations may materially and adversely affect our financial performance and the trading prices of our securities. We depend on our senior management team for their expertise and leadership, and the unexpected loss of any member could adversely affect the implementation of our business strategy or our operations. Our success depends on the management and leadership skills of our senior management team. The unexpected loss of any of these individuals or an inability to attract and retain additional personnel could impede or prevent the implementation of our business strategy or adversely affect our operations. Although we have incentives for management to stay with us, we cannot ensure that we will be able to retain all of our existing senior management personnel or attract additional qualified personnel when needed. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We have not paid a dividend on our common stock since the first quarter of 2001 and have no plans to do so in the foreseeable future. Further, our credit agreement limits our ability to pay a dividend or repurchase our stock unless specified borrowing availability and fixed charge coverage ratio tests are met, and it prohibits payment of a dividend if a default exists under the agreement. Because we do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, investors in our common stock will have to rely on the possibility of stock appreciation for a return on their investment. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 16 Table of Contents 