Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. We have described below significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial performance and condition or industry. You should carefully consider these factors, together with all of the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with the SEC, before making any investment decision about our securities. Adverse developments or changes related to any of the factors listed below could affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth. Our businesses have been adversely affected by current economic conditions, including the worldwide financial crisis and restrictive lending practices, and are cyclical in nature. Prolonged periods of weak demand or excess supply may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The markets that we serve, including in particular the housing and construction-based markets, are affected by the availability of credit, lending practices, the movement of interest rates, the unemployment rate and consumer confidence. Higher interest and unemployment rates and more restrictive lending practices could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. Our businesses are also affected by a variety of other factors beyond our control, including the inventory of unsold homes, which currently remains at a record level, housing affordability, office vacancy rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Our businesses are cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, including, in particular, conditions in the North American housing and construction-based markets. Based on preliminary data issued by the U.S. Bureau of the Census, the rate of new home construction in the United States declined by approximately 33% in 2008 compared with 2007. This followed a 25% decrease in 2007 compared with 2006. Industry analysts’ forecasts for new home construction in the United States in 2009 are for a further decline of approximately 20% to 45% from the 2008 level. The repair and remodel market, which includes renovation of both residential and nonresidential buildings, currently accounts for the largest portion of our sales, ahead of new housing construction. Many buyers begin to remodel an existing home within two years of purchase. According to the National Association of Realtors, sales of existing homes in the United States in 2008 declined to an estimated 4.9 million units compared with 5.7 million units in 2007 and 6.5 million units in 2006, which contributed to a decrease in demand for our products from the residential repair and remodel market. Industry analysts’ forecasts for residential repair and remodel activity in the United States in 2009 are for a further decline of approximately 5% to 10% from the 2008 level. Demand for our products from new nonresidential construction is determined by floor space for which contracts are signed. Installation of gypsum and ceilings products typically follows signing of construction contracts by about a year. According to McGraw-Hill Construction, total floor space for which contracts were signed in the United States declined 16% in 2008 compared with 2007 after increasing 2% in 2007 compared to 2006. Industry analysts’ forecasts for commercial construction in the United States in 2009 are for a further decline of approximately 15% to 20% from the 2008 level. Prices for our products and services are affected by overall supply and demand in the markets for our products and for our competitors’ products. Market prices of building products historically have been volatile and cyclical. Currently, there is significant excess wallboard production capacity industry-wide in the United States. Industry capacity in the United States was approximately 40 billion square feet in 2008. Industry shipments of wallboard in the United States (including imports) were an estimated 25.2 billion square feet in 2008, and we expect demand to decrease in 2009. We and other industry participants announced a number of closures near the end of 2008 that we 6 Table of Contents expect will reduce industry capacity in the United States by approximately 3 billion square feet in 2009. We do not expect any new industry capacity will be added in 2009. Prolonged continuation of weak demand or excess supply in any of our businesses may have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, margins, financial condition and operating results. We cannot predict the duration of the current market conditions, or the timing or strength of any future recovery of the North American housing and construction-based markets. We also cannot provide any assurances that those markets will not weaken further, or that the operational adjustments we have implemented to address the current market conditions will be successful. Continued weakness in these markets and the homebuilding industry may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Since our operations occur in a variety of geographic markets, our businesses are subject to the economic conditions in each of these geographic markets. General economic downturns or localized downturns in the regions where we have operations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our customers and suppliers are exposed to risks associated with the current worldwide downturn and financial crisis which could adversely affect their ability to pay our invoices or continue to operate their businesses. The businesses of many of our customers and suppliers are exposed to risks related to the current economic environment. A number of our customers and suppliers have been and may continue to be adversely affected by the worldwide financial crisis, disruptions to the capital and credit markets and decreased demand for their products and services. In the event that any of our large customers or suppliers, or a significant number of smaller customers and suppliers, are adversely affected by these risks, we may face disruptions in supply, further reductions in demand for our products and services, failure of customers to pay invoices when due and other adverse effects that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our substantial indebtedness may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our substantial indebtedness may have material adverse effects on our business, including to: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt service obligations; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, debt service obligations and other general corporate requirements; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general operating requirements; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or taking advantage of favorable business opportunities; • place us at a relative competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt; • limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate, which may adversely affect our operating results and ability to meet our debt service obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; • increase our vulnerability to the current and potentially more severe adverse general economic and industry conditions; and • limit our ability, or increase the cost, to refinance indebtedness. 7 Table of Contents If we incur additional indebtedness, the risks related to our substantial indebtedness may intensify. We require a significant amount of liquidity to service our indebtedness and fund operations, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, acquisitions and other corporate expenses. Our ability to fund operations, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, acquisitions and other corporate expenses, including repayment of our indebtedness, depends on our ability to generate cash through future operating performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We cannot assure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to fund our needs. We are required to post letters of credit or cash as collateral primarily in connection with our hedging transactions, insurance programs and bonding activities. The amounts of collateral we are required to post may vary based on our financial position and credit ratings. Use of letters of credit as collateral reduces our borrowing availability under our revolving credit agreement and, therefore, like the use of cash as collateral, reduces our overall liquidity and our ability to fund other business activities. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to fund our needs, we may need to pursue one or more alternatives, such as to: • curtail operations further; • reduce or delay planned capital expenditures, research and development or acquisitions; • seek additional financing or restructure or refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness at or before maturity; • sell assets or businesses; and • sell additional equity. Any curtailment of operations, reduction or delay in planned capital expenditures, research and development or acquisitions or sale of assets or businesses may materially and adversely affect our future revenue prospects. In addition, we cannot assure that we will be able to raise additional equity capital, restructure or refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Covenant restrictions under the agreements governing our indebtedness may limit our ability to pursue business activities or otherwise operate our business. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain covenants that may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities, including, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • make guarantees; • sell assets or make other fundamental changes; • engage in mergers and acquisitions; • make investments; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; 8 Table of Contents • change our business purposes; and • enter into sale and lease-back transactions. In addition, we are subject to agreements that may require us to meet and maintain certain financial ratios and tests, which may require that we take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our current business objectives. General business and economic conditions may affect our ability to comply with these covenants or meet those financial ratios and tests. A breach of any of our credit agreement or indenture covenants or failure to maintain a required ratio or meet a required test may result in an event of default under those agreements. This may allow the counterparties to those agreements to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If this occurs, we may not be able to refinance the accelerated indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, or repay the accelerated indebtedness. The loss of sales to one or more of our major customers may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We face strong competition for our major customers. If one or more of our major customers reduces, delays or cancels substantial orders, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected, particularly for the quarter in which the reduction, delay or cancellation occurs. We face competition in each of our businesses. If we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. We face competition in each of our businesses. Principal methods of competition include quality and range of products, service, location, pricing, compatibility of systems and product design features. Actions of our competitors, or the entry of new competitors in our markets, could lead to lower pricing by us in an effort to maintain market share and could also lead to lower sales volumes. To achieve and/or maintain leadership positions in key product categories, we must continue to develop brand recognition and loyalty, enhance product quality and performance and develop our manufacturing and distribution capabilities. We also compete through our use and improvement of information technology. In order to remain competitive, we need to provide customers with timely, accurate, easy-to-access information about product availability, orders and delivery status using state-of-the-art systems. While we have provided manual processes for short-term failures and disaster recovery capability, a prolonged disruption of systems or other failure to meet customers’ expectations regarding the capabilities and reliability of our systems may materially and adversely affect our operating results particularly during any prolonged period of disruption. We intend to continue making investments in research and development to develop new and improved products and more efficient production methods in order to maintain our market leadership position. If we do not make these investments, or our investments are not successful, our revenues, operating results and market share could be adversely affected. In addition, there can be no assurance that revenue from new products or enhancements will be sufficient to recover the research and development expenses associated with their development. If costs of key raw materials, energy, fuel or employee benefits increase, or the availability of key raw materials and energy decreases, our cost of products sold will increase, and our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. The cost and availability of raw materials and energy are critical to our operations. For example, we use substantial quantities of gypsum, wastepaper, mineral fiber, steel, perlite, starch and high-pressure laminates. The cost of certain of these items has been volatile, and availability has sometimes been limited. We obtain some of these materials from 9 Table of Contents a limited number of suppliers, which increases the risk of unavailability. As a result of recent market conditions, our ability to pass increased raw materials prices on to our customers has been limited. We may not be able to pass increased raw materials prices on to our customers in the future if the market or existing agreements with our customers do not allow us to raise the prices of our finished products. If price adjustments for our finished products significantly trail the increase in raw materials prices or if we cannot effectively hedge against price increases, our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Wastepaper prices are affected by market conditions, principally supply. We buy various grades of wastepaper, and shortages occur periodically in one or more grades and may vary among geographic regions. As a result, we have experienced, and expect in the future to experience, volatility in wastepaper availability and its cost, affecting the mix of products manufactured at particular locations or the cost of producing them. Approximately one quarter of the gypsum used in our plants is synthetic gypsum, which is a byproduct resulting primarily from flue gas desulphurization carried out by electric generation or industrial plants burning coal as a fuel. The suppliers of synthetic gypsum are primarily power companies, which are required under federal environmental regulations to operate scrubbing equipment for their coal-fired generating plants. Environmental regulatory changes or changes in methods used to comply with environmental regulations could adversely affect the price and availability of synthetic gypsum. Energy costs also are affected by various market factors, including the availability of supplies of particular forms of energy, energy prices and local and national regulatory decisions. Prices for natural gas and electrical power, which are significant components of the costs associated with our gypsum and interior systems products, have both become more volatile in recent years. There may be substantial increases in the price, or a decline in the availability, of energy in the future, especially in light of instability or possible dislocations in some energy markets. In addition, significant increases in the cost of fuel can result in material increases in the cost of transportation, which could materially and adversely affect our operating profits. As is the case with raw materials, we may not be able to pass on increased costs through increases in the prices of our products. In addition, our profit margins are affected by costs related to maintaining our employee benefit plans (pension and medical insurance for active employees and retirees). The recognition of costs and liabilities associated with these plans for financial reporting purposes is affected by assumptions made by management and used by actuaries engaged by us to calculate the projected and accumulated benefit obligations and the annual expense recognized for these plans. The assumptions used in developing the required estimates primarily include discount rates, expected return on plan assets for the funded plans, compensation increase rates, retirement rates, mortality rates and, for postretirement benefits, health-care-cost trend rates. Economic and market factors and conditions could affect any of these assumptions and may affect our estimated and actual employee benefit plan costs and our business, financial condition and operating results. If the market price of natural gas declines, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results as a result of our hedging transactions and fixed-price supply agreements for natural gas. We use natural gas extensively in the production of gypsum and interior systems products. As a result, our revenues, profitability, operating cash flows and future rate of growth are highly dependent on the price of natural gas, which historically has been very volatile and is affected by numerous factors beyond our control. We are not always able to pass on increases in energy costs to our customers through increases in product prices. In an attempt to reduce our price risk related to fluctuations in natural gas prices, we periodically enter into hedging transactions and fixed-price supply agreements. Although we benefit from those agreements when spot prices exceed contractually specified prices, if the market price for natural gas declines, we may not be able to take advantage of decreasing market prices while our competitors may be able to do so. Any substantial or extended decline in prices of, or demand for, natural gas could cause our production costs to be greater than that of our competitors. As a result, a decline in prices may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 10 Table of Contents In addition, the results of our hedging transactions could be positive, neutral or negative in any period depending on price changes in the hedged exposures. Further, changes to the price of natural gas could result in changes to the value of our hedging contracts, which could impact our results of operations for a particular period. Our hedging activities are not designed to mitigate long-term natural gas price fluctuations and, therefore, will not protect us from long-term natural gas price increases. Certain of our customers have been expanding and may continue to expand through consolidation and internal growth, thereby possibly developing increased buying power over us, which may materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Certain of our important customers are large companies with significant buying power over suppliers. In addition, potential further consolidation in the distribution channels could enhance the ability of certain of our customers to seek more favorable terms, including pricing, for the products that they purchase from us. Accordingly, our ability to maintain or raise prices in the future may be limited, including during periods of raw material and other cost increases. If we are forced to reduce prices or to maintain prices during periods of increased costs, or if we lose customers because of pricing or other methods of competition, our revenues and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to environmental and safety regulations that may change and could cause us to make modifications to how we manufacture and price our products. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment and occupational health and safety, including laws regulating air emissions, wastewater discharges, the management and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, and the health and safety of our employees. We are also required to obtain permits from governmental authorities for certain operations. If we were to fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could incur fines, penalties or other sanctions. In addition, we could be held responsible for costs and damages arising from any contamination at our past or present facilities or at third-party waste disposal sites. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials. Environmental laws tend to become more stringent over time, and we could incur material expenses relating to compliance with future environmental laws. In addition, the price and availability of certain of the raw materials that we use, including synthetic gypsum, may vary in the future as a result of environmental laws and regulations affecting our suppliers. An increase in the price of our raw materials, a decline in their availability or future costs relating to our compliance with environmental laws may materially and adversely affect our operating margins or result in reduced demand for our products. The U.S. Congress and several states are considering proposed legislation to reduce emission of “greenhouse gases,” including carbon dioxide and methane. Some states have already adopted greenhouse gas regulation or legislation. Enactment of climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives by Congress or various states, or the adoption of regulations by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and analogous state or foreign governmental agencies that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which we conduct business, could have an adverse effect on our operations and demand for our services or products. Our manufacturing processes, particularly the manufacturing process for wallboard, use a significant amount of energy, especially natural gas. Increased regulation of energy use to address the possible emission of greenhouse gases and climate change could materially increase our manufacturing costs. Energy could also become more expensive, and we may not be able to pass these increased costs on to purchasers of our products. In addition, stricter regulation of emissions might require us to install emissions control equipment at some or all of our manufacturing facilities, requiring significant additional capital investments. If the downturn in the markets for our businesses does not reverse or is significantly extended, we may incur material impairment charges. 11 Table of Contents We have been scaling back our operations in response to market conditions since the downturn began in 2006. Since mid-2006, we have temporarily idled or permanently closed approximately 3.1 billion square feet of our highest-cost wallboard manufacturing capacity. Historically, the housing and other construction markets that we serve have been deeply cyclical. Downturns in demand are typically steep and last several years, but they have typically been followed by periods of strong recovery. If this cycle is similar to past cycles in that regard, we believe we will generate significant cash flows when our markets recover. As a result, we currently expect to realize the carrying value of all facilities that are not permanently closed through future cash flows. We regularly monitor forecasts prepared by external economic forecasters and review our facilities and other assets to determine which of them, if any, are impaired under applicable accounting rules. However, if the downturn in these markets does not reverse or the downturn is significantly extended, material write-downs or impairment charges may be required in the future. If these conditions materialize or worsen, or if there is a fundamental change in the housing market, which individually or collectively lead to a significantly extended downturn or permanent decrease in demand, material impairment charges may be necessary if we permanently close gypsum wallboard production facilities. The magnitude and timing of those charges would be dependent on the severity and duration of the downturn and cannot be determined at this time. Any material cash or non-cash impairment charges related to property, plant and equipment would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. A small number of our stockholders could be able to significantly influence our business and affairs. Based on filings made with the SEC and other information available to us, as of January 31, 2009, we believe that six organizations collectively controlled over 50% of our common stock. Also, all of our 10% contingent convertible senior notes are currently held by two of our largest stockholders. At the current conversion price of $11.40 per share, the notes are convertible into approximately 35.1 million shares of our common stock, or approximately 25% of the shares that would be outstanding if all of the notes were converted at that price. Accordingly, a small number of our stockholders could affect matters requiring approval by stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of potential business combination transactions. The seasonal nature of our businesses may materially and adversely affect the trading prices of our securities. A majority of our businesses are seasonal, with peak sales typically occurring from spring through the middle of autumn. Quarterly results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. Those variations may materially and adversely affect our financial performance and the trading prices of our securities. We may pursue acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions that complement or expand our businesses. We may not be able to complete proposed transactions, and even if completed, the transactions may involve a number of risks that may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. During the past several years, we have completed a number of acquisitions and joint venture arrangements. As business conditions warrant and our financial resources permit, we may pursue opportunities to acquire businesses or technologies and to form joint ventures that could complement, enhance or expand our current businesses or product lines or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. We may have difficulty identifying appropriate opportunities or, if we do identify opportunities, we may not be successful in completing transactions for a number of reasons. Any transactions that we are able to identify and complete may involve one or more of a number of risks, including: • the diversion of management’s attention from our existing businesses to integrate the operations and personnel of 12 Table of Contents the acquired or combined business or joint venture; • possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process; • failure of the acquired business or joint venture to achieve expected operational, profitability and investment return objectives; and • inability to achieve other intended objectives of the transaction. In addition, we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage our newly acquired operations or their employees. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, which may lead to operational inefficiencies. In addition, future acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of additional indebtedness. We depend on our senior management team for their expertise and leadership, and the unexpected loss of any member could adversely affect our operations. Our success depends on the management and leadership skills of our senior management team. The unexpected loss of any of these individuals or an inability to attract and retain additional personnel could impede or prevent the implementation of our business strategy. Although we have incentives for management to stay with us, we cannot assure that we will be able to retain all of our existing senior management personnel or attract additional qualified personnel when needed. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We have not paid a dividend on our common stock since the first quarter of 2001 and have no plans to do so in the foreseeable future. Further, our credit agreement limits our ability to pay a dividend or repurchase our stock unless specified borrowing availability and fixed charge coverage ratio tests are met, and it prohibits payment of a dividend if a default exists under the agreement. Because we do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, investors will have to rely on stock appreciation for a return on their investment. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 13 Table of Contents 