RISK FACTORS (Continued) Our investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, currency and interest rate risks. As a result, we may experience reductions in value or loss of liquidity of our investments. In addition, should any investment cease paying or reduce the amount of interest paid to us, our interest income would suffer. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. We have real estate lease commitments for unoccupied space and restoration obligations, and if we are unable to sublet this space on acceptable terms our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We are party to real estate leases worldwide for a total of approximately 692,000 square feet. At October 31, 2010, we actively utilized approximately 93% of this space, or 647,000 square feet. We own 995,000 square feet of office space. At October 31, 2010, approximately 26%, or 260,000 square feet of our owned space is currently unoccupied. Approximately 19%, or 188,000 square feet of the owned space is sublet to third parties. If we are unable to sublet unoccupied space on acceptable terms, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our stock price may be volatile in the future, and the stock price may decline. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. The market price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including: • announcements of quarterly operating results and revenue and earnings forecasts by us that fail to meet or be consistent with our earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or securities analysts; • announcements by either our competitors or our customers that fail to meet or be consistent with their earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or securities analysts; • rumors, announcements, or press articles regarding our, or our competitors’ operations, management, organization, financial condition, or financial statements; • changes in revenue and earnings estimates by us, our investors, or securities analysts; • accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill, intangible assets or other assets; • announcements of planned acquisitions or dispositions by us or by our competitors; • announcements of new or planned products by us, our competitors, or our customers; • gain or loss of a significant customer or partner; • the inception of, or material developments in relation to, litigation initiated by us or brought against us; • inquiries by the SEC, NASDAQ, law enforcement, or other regulatory bodies; • acts of terrorism, the threat of war, and other crises or emergency situations; • economic slowdowns or the perception of an oncoming economic slowdown in any of the major markets in which we operate; and • a delay in consummating, or a failure to consummate, the merger with Attachmate. The stock market in general, and the market prices of stocks of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price volatility that has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 24 Table of Contents NOVELL, INC. PROPERTIES 