Item 1A. Risk Factors We may not be able to attract and retain new customers through indirect sales, which may result in decreased or fluctuating revenue. In addition, our reliance on an indirect sales channel for the distribution of our products could adversely affect the sales of our products. Our ability to attract and retain new customers and achieve significant revenue growth in the future will depend in large part on our ability to continue to establish and maintain strategic distribution and other collaborative relationships with industry-leading hardware manufacturers, distributors, software vendors and enterprise solutions providers such as Microsoft, SAP, ACS, Dell, HP, IBM, Cap Gemini, Atos Origin, Accenture and other third parties that are willing to recommend, design and implement solutions that include our products. These relationships create the potential to distribute our products to a much larger customer base than we would otherwise be able to reach through our direct sales and marketing efforts. We are currently investing, and plan to continue to invest, significant resources to develop these distribution relationships. The reliance and the distribution of our products through indirect channel partners presents a number of special risks, including but not limited to: • our ability to retain or attract a sufficient number of existing or future distribution partners; • our lack of control over the delivery of our products to end-users; • the ability of resellers and distributors to terminate their relationships with us on short notice; • the failure of our indirect channel partners to recommend, or continue to recommend, or support our products effectively or to release their products in which our products are embedded in a timely manner; • our inability to effectively manage conflicts between our indirect channel partners and the end-users of our products; • the impact of economic conditions or industry demand on our indirect channel partners; and • the failure of indirect channel partners to devote sufficient resources to marketing and supporting our products. Our inability to establish or maintain successful relationships with distribution partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, revenues derived from indirect channel partners may fluctuate significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. 13 Table of Contents NOVELL, INC. RISK FACTORS (Continued) If our Open Platform Solutions, Identity and Security Management and Systems and Resource Management business unit segments do not grow at the rates we anticipate, or if growth rates decline, our financial results, including cash flow, will be negatively impacted. Our near-term growth strategy focuses on three business unit segments: Open Platform Solutions, Identity and Security Management, and Systems and Resource Management, with an emphasis on open source platforms. We have focused on these businesses because we believe that they represent the best current opportunity for us to profitably grow our revenue. Our ability to achieve success with this strategy is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the following: • the growth of these markets; • our development of key products and upgrades; • delivery of product milestones in a timely manner; • the acceptance of our products particularly by enterprise companies, large industry partners and major accounts; • the decisions by customers to upgrade from older versions of our products to newer versions; and • the attractiveness of our products to current and future distribution partners. If any of these business unit segments do not grow at the rates we anticipate or decline, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be adversely affected. Our inability to renew SLES subscriptions with those customers who have received SLES certificates from Microsoft, or renewals of such subscriptions at deeply discounted rates, or failure to maintain our channel partnership with Microsoft at historical levels, could adversely affect our future sales and profitability. The Microsoft Agreements have been a significant contributor to our product revenue and the increase in our gross and operating margins over the past few years. Most of the Microsoft SLES certificate sales have been three-year arrangements that begin to expire in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Accordingly, the ongoing financial benefit of the Microsoft Agreements will depend on our ability to renew SLES subscriptions with those customers who received SLES certificates from Microsoft and the pricing we are able to obtain in connection with such renewals. If we are unable to renew the SLES subscriptions as they expire, or if renewed subscriptions are at a lower price than Microsoft paid us for the SLES certificates, our financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, if Microsoft does not acquire additional SLES certificates, ceases to distribute SLES certificates, diminishes its marketing efforts in relation to SLES certificates, or significantly discounts SLES certificates upon distribution, our financial results could be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that Microsoft will continue to operate as a distribution partner for us, or that the channel partnership will be maintained at historical levels. Microsoft also provides funding for development to enable interoperability between our respective platforms. There can be no assurance that Microsoft will continue to fund development efforts. If funding were reduced or terminated, the rate of interoperability development could be affected, which could adversely affect SLES revenues and our financial results. Our OES and NetWare-related revenue stream may decline at accelerated rates which would adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flow. Sales of our OES and NetWare-related products have been declining for many years and declines at accelerated rates could offset or out-pace any growth in sales of our other products. We have announced our intention to terminate general support of our NetWare products effective in March 2010. While customers will be eligible to receive extended support for NetWare, some NetWare customers may migrate to a competing platform which would negatively impact our revenue. Our strategy is to stabilize these sales declines to the extent practicable with new product releases and other efforts; however, combined OES and NetWare-related software licenses, and maintenance and subscriptions revenue declined by $28.1 million, or 14%, in fiscal 2009, compared to fiscal 2008. If our strategy is unsuccessful, our combined OES and NetWare-related revenue stream may decline more rapidly than any growth of other revenue streams from our other products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. If we are unable to develop new and enhanced products and services that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable to continually improve the performance, features, and reliability of our existing products and services or adapt our business model to keep pace with industry trends, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents NOVELL, INC. RISK FACTORS (Continued) Our success depends on our ability to respond to the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing or introducing new products, product upgrades, and services on a timely basis. We have in the past incurred, and will continue to incur, significant research and development expenses as we strive to remain competitive. New product development and introduction involves a significant commitment of time and resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges including: • managing the length of the development cycle for new products and product enhancements, which has frequently been longer than we originally estimated; • adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to technological developments by our competitors and customers; • entering into new or unproven markets with which we have limited experience; • shifting our skill set to new strategic areas; • managing new product and service strategies; • incorporating acquired products and technologies; and • developing or expanding efficient sales channels. If we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges, or if our new products, product upgrades, and services are not technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. The success of our recently-announced Intelligent Workload Management strategy is contingent upon the realization and development of the IWM market. Our IWM strategy is intended to enable computing resources to be managed and optimized in a policy-driven, secure, and compliant manner across physical, virtual, and cloud environments. Although we have encountered interest in IWM-oriented products, the IWM market is nascent and developing. It is difficult to accurately predict the scale of the IWM market, the timing of development of the IWM market, and our ability to penetrate the IWM market. While we anticipate differentiable solutions that will be attractive to many customers within the IWM market, we are investing at an early stage and success in the IWM market, if achieved, would require time and resources. It is uncertain whether or when the IWM market will realize its potential, as well as the extent and timing of our impact within the IWM market. We also expect other enterprise software vendors to enter the IWM market with solutions that will directly compete with our offerings. Our ability to capture market share will depend on the relative timing of product offerings; capabilities, design and functionality of our products relative to products of our competitors; and strategic fit of our products within the IWM market. Our software may have vulnerabilities, defects and errors, which may lead to a loss of revenue or product liability claims. Software products are internally complex and occasionally contain defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Despite extensive testing, we may not detect defects or errors in our new products, platforms or product enhancements until after we have commenced commercial shipments. If defects or errors, including security flaws or incompatibilities, are discovered in our existing or acquired products, platforms or product enhancements, then potential customers may delay or forego purchases; our reputation in the marketplace may be damaged; we may incur additional service and warranty costs; and we may have to divert additional development resources to correct the defects or errors. If any or all of the foregoing occur, we may lose revenues or incur higher operating expenses and lose market share, any of which could severely harm our financial condition and operating results. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, delays in the introduction of new products due to various factors, which results in lost revenue. In the past, we have experienced delays in the introduction of new products due to a number of factors including: the complexity of software products, the need for extensive testing of software to ensure compatibility of new releases with a wide variety of application software and hardware devices, the need to ensure quality of products prior to extensive distribution, and with regard to our open source products, our continuing reliance on the work of third parties not employed by us. Our open source offerings depend to a large extent on the efforts of developers not employed by us for the creation and modification of open source technologies. For example, Linus Torvalds, the original developer of the Linux kernel, and a small group of engineers, many of whom are not employed by us, are primarily responsible for the development and evolution of the Linux kernel that is a key component of our OES and SUSE Linux Enterprise offerings. The timing and nature of new releases of the Linux kernel are controlled by these third parties. Delays in developing, completing, or shipping new or enhanced products could continue to result in delayed or reduced revenue for those products and could adversely impact customer acceptance of those offerings. 15 Table of Contents NOVELL, INC. RISK FACTORS (Continued) Our inability to rely on software licensed from third parties, including open source contributions of third-party programmers and corporations would adversely affect our business and operating results. We use various types of software licensed from unaffiliated third parties. Our open source offerings, for example, are primarily comprised of open source components developed by independent third parties over whom we exercise no control. The collective licenses to third-party technologies are critical to our business. If we are unable to maintain licenses to third-party materials, our distribution of relevant offerings may be delayed until we are able to develop, license, or acquire replacement technologies. Such a delay could have a material adverse impact on our business. If key developers or a significant percentage of developers or corporations decide to cease development of the Linux kernel or other open source software, or if we are unable to maintain licenses to proprietary software or such software is no longer available to us on commercially reasonable terms, we would have to either rely on another party (or parties) to develop these technologies, develop them ourselves, or adapt our product strategy accordingly. This could increase our development expenses, delay our product releases and upgrades, and adversely impact customer acceptance of our relevant offerings. In addition, we may be unable to predict the future course of open source technology development, which could impact the market appeal of our products as well as our reputation. Because of the characteristics of open source software, there are few technology barriers to entry in the open source market by new competitors and it may be relatively easy for new competitors with greater resources than we have to enter our markets and compete with us. One of the characteristics of open source software is that any open source licensee can modify the existing software or develop new software that competes with existing open source software. Such competition can develop without the degree of overhead and lead time required by traditional proprietary software companies. It is possible for new competitors with greater resources than ours to develop their own open source solutions, potentially reducing the demand for, and putting price pressure on, our solutions. In addition, some competitors make their open source software available for free download and use, or may position their open source software as a loss leader. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressure and/or the availability of open source software will not result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any one of which could seriously harm our business. If our customers do not renew their maintenance and subscription agreements with us, our operating results may be adversely impacted. Our customers may elect not to renew their maintenance and subscriptions for our service after expiration of their agreements. In addition, our customers may opt for a lower priced service option. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our services and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. Renewal rates may also decline as a result of elections by customers to use our products on an unsupported basis. If we experience a decline in the renewal rates for our customers or they opt for a lower priced service option or fewer subscriptions, our operating results may be adversely impacted. Uncertain economic conditions and reductions in IT spending could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. In the past, unfavorable or uncertain economic conditions have resulted in reduced global IT spending rates that have adversely affected the markets in which we do business. Accordingly, current and/or future weakness in the United States economy and/or in the economies of the other geographic regions in which we operate could have a negative impact on our revenues and operating results. For example, as a result of present company trends and continued economic uncertainty, management reduced its long-range revenue growth plans, resulting in the impairment of $270.0 million of goodwill in fiscal 2009 related to our Systems and Resource Management business unit segment. While we are unable to accurately predict changes in general economic conditions and how the current global financial and market conditions will affect global IT spending rates, we believe that there is the potential for a continued slowdown in global IT spending rates in the next few quarters. This could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies, and increased price competition. Any of these events would likely harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. 16 Table of Contents NOVELL, INC. RISK FACTORS (Continued) We may not be able to successfully compete in a challenging market for infrastructure software services. The industries in which we compete are highly competitive, and customer requirements evolve rapidly. We expect competition to continue to increase both from existing competitors and from new market entrants. Our competitors include, but are not limited to, Microsoft, Oracle, IBM, Sun, HP, Symantec, VMware, and CA. Our primary competitor in the Linux market is Red Hat. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. We believe that competitive factors common to all of our segments include: • the pricing of products and services as well as pricing strategies; • the availability of open source or free-ware alternatives; • the timing and market acceptance of new products; • brand and product awareness; • the performance, reliability and security of products; • the ability to preserve an existing customer base; • the impact of current macroeconomic conditions ; • the ability to establish and maintain key strategic relationships with distributors, resellers, and other partners; and • the ability to attract and retain highly qualified development, services, and managerial personnel. Our inability to maintain a strong brand could impact our future success. We believe that the future success of our business depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brand, and expand brand awareness into emerging strategic markets. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand, we may not be able to expand our customer base or attract talented employees, and our business, financial condition, and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our inability to meet customer demand for technical support services could adversely affect our customer relationships. We offer technical support services with many of our products. There may be situations where we are unable to respond adequately to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. We also may be unable to modify the format of our support services to compete with changes in support services provided by our competitors. Any failure to maintain adequate customer support could cause customer dissatisfaction, result in reduced sales of products and reductions in the renewals of software maintenance and support agreements, and, accordingly, have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our professional services clients may cancel or reduce the scope of their engagements with us on short notice. If our clients cancel or reduce the scope of a professional services engagement, we may be unable to reassign our professionals to new engagements without delay. Because these expenses are relatively fixed, and because we establish the levels of these expenses well in advance of any particular quarter, cancellations or reductions in the scope of client engagements could result in the under-utilization of our professional services employees, leading to reduced profitability. We are vulnerable to system failures, which could harm our reputation and business. Although we have outsourced much of our internal IT services, we are still vulnerable to system failures. We rely on our technology infrastructure and outsourcing partner, among other functions, to sell our products and services, support our partners, fulfill orders and bill, collect and make payments. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer intrusions and viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. A significant number of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient to address every eventuality. Our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism by internal employees, contractors and third-parties. Despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation, business and financial condition. We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to protect us from all losses that may result from interruptions in our services as a result of system failures or to cover all contingencies. 17 Table of Contents NOVELL, INC. RISK FACTORS (Continued) The success of our acquisitions is dependent on our ability to integrate personnel, operations, and technology, and if we are not successful, our financial and operating results may be adversely affected. Achieving the benefits of acquisitions depends on the successful integration of personnel, operations and technology. The integration of acquisitions is subject to risks and requires significant expenditure of time and resources. During fiscal 2009, we made two acquisitions. The most recent acquisition was completed in February 2009. The challenges involved in integrating acquisitions include the following: • obtaining synergies from the companies’ organizations and service and product offerings effectively and quickly; • bringing together marketing efforts so that the market receives useful information about the combined companies and their products; • coordinating sales efforts so that customers can do business easily with the combined companies; • integrating product offerings, technology, back office, human resources, and accounting and financial systems; • assimilating employees with diverse corporate cultural backgrounds into a common business culture revolving around our corporate strategy; and • retaining key officers and employees who possess the necessary skills and experience to quickly and effectively transition and integrate the businesses. Failure to effectively and timely complete the integration of acquisitions could materially harm the business and operating results of the combined companies. Furthermore, we may assume significant liabilities in connection with acquisitions and/or incur substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related expenses, the write-off of purchased in-process research and development, impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, and stock-based compensation expense. Using our cash for acquisitions may prevent us from pursuing other business opportunities. For example, during fiscal 2009 it was determined that $270.0 million of our goodwill, and $5.7 million of PlateSpin’s and $3.4 million of Managed Objects’ developed technology and customer relationship intangible assets were impaired. The consolidation of our industry may adversely affect our acquisition program. We believe that the software industry will continue to undergo considerable consolidation and changes during the next several years. This consolidation could increase the competition we face to acquire businesses and increase the prices we must pay for the businesses that we acquire. In response to this consolidation, we consider from time to time additional strategies to enhance stockholder value. In considering various strategies, we evaluate the consequences, including, among other things, the implications to our liquidity and capital structure, tax effects and accounting consequences, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. The risks associated with conducting a global business could adversely affect our results. We are a global corporation with subsidiaries, offices and employees around the world and, as such, we face certain risks in doing business abroad that we do not face domestically. Risks inherent in transacting business internationally could negatively impact our operating results, including: • costs and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • difficulties in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights; • longer payment cycles; • local political and economic conditions; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriating earnings and the threat of “double taxation”; and • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which can affect demand, increase our costs and affect our net income. Increasing our foreign research and development operations exposes us to risks that are beyond our control and could affect our ability to operate successfully. In order to enhance the cost-effectiveness of our operations, we have shifted portions of our research and development operations to jurisdictions outside of the United States. The transition of even a portion of our research and development operations to a foreign 18 Table of Contents NOVELL, INC. RISK FACTORS (Continued) country involves a number of logistical and technical challenges that could result in product development delays and operational interruptions, which could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business. We may encounter complications associated with the set-up, migration and operation of business systems and equipment in expanded or new facilities. This could result in delays in our research and development efforts and otherwise disrupt our operations. If such delays or disruptions occur, they could damage our reputation and otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. We cannot be certain that any shifts in our operations to offshore jurisdictions will ultimately produce sustained cost savings. We cannot predict the extent of government support, availability of qualified workers, future labor rates, or monetary and economic conditions in any offshore location where we may operate. The relocation of labor resources may have a negative impact on our existing employees, which could negatively impact our operations. In addition, we will likely be faced with competition in these offshore markets for qualified personnel, including skilled design and technical personnel, and we expect this competition to increase as other companies expand their operations offshore. If the supply of qualified personnel becomes limited due to increased competition or otherwise, it could increase our costs and employee turnover rates. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel because of the intense competition for qualified personnel in the software industry. Furthermore, the loss of certain key individuals could adversely affect our performance and could have material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our ability to maintain and enhance our competitive technological position depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified development, services, and managerial personnel. Furthermore, our future success depends on the services and effectiveness of a number of key officers and employees, including our CEO. Competition for personnel of the highest caliber is intense in the software industry. The loss of the technical knowledge and industry expertise of certain key individuals could seriously impede our success. Moreover, the loss of these individuals, particularly to a competitor, some of which may be in a position to offer greater compensation, and any resulting loss of customers or market confidence could reduce our market share, diminish our brand and adversely affect our business. If we do not succeed in retaining and motivating our key employees, and attracting new key personnel, our business, its financial performance and our stock price may decline. If third parties claim that we infringed their intellectual property, our ability to use some technologies and products could be limited and we may incur significant costs to resolve these claims. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is common in the software industry. We have from time to time received letters or been the subject of claims suggesting that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of others. In addition, we have faced and expect to continue to face from time to time disputes over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, including with respect to third party proprietary and open source components. The cost and time of defending ourselves can be significant. If an infringement claim is successful, we and our customers may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third parties, and we may be obligated to pay or reimburse our customers for monetary damages. In such instances, we or our customers may not be able to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or at all, and may face delays in product shipment while developing or arranging for alternative technologies, which could adversely affect our operating results. In the event claims for indemnification are brought for intellectual property infringement, we could incur significant expenses, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. We indemnify customers against certain claims that our products, including open source components thereof, infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Although indemnification programs for proprietary software are common in our industry, indemnification programs that cover open source software are less so. In the event that we are required to indemnify our customers against claims for intellectual property infringement, we could incur significant expense reimbursing customers for their legal costs and, in the event those claims are successful, for damages. Legal actions taken by claimants alleging intellectual property infringement could adversely affect our revenue and business plan if these legal actions cause a reduction in demand for our SUSE Linux and Ximian® products. In January 2004, The SCO Group, Inc. (“SCO”) filed suit against us in Utah State Court and the case was later removed to the U.S. District Court in Utah (See Part II, Item 8, Note S, “Legal Proceedings,” in the consolidated financial statements). SCO’s complaint asserted ownership of UNIX copyrights and further alleged that our public statements and filings regarding the ownership of the 19 Table of Contents NOVELL, INC. RISK FACTORS (Continued) copyrights in UNIX have harmed SCO’s business reputation and affected its efforts to protect its ownership interest in UNIX and UnixWare. In August 2007, the U.S. District Court granted us summary judgment against SCO, concluding that we retained ownership of the UNIX copyrights, and dismissed SCO’s claims against us. In August, 2009, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals issued an opinion that reversed in part and affirmed in part the Trial Court’s decision. If SCO is able to succeed on its claims before a jury, our future revenue and business plans associated with our SUSE Linux and Ximian products could be adversely affected. We may not be able to protect our confidential information, and this could adversely affect our business. We generally enter into contractual relationships with our employees and third parties to protect our confidential information. The misappropriation of our trade secrets or other proprietary information could harm our business. In addition, we may not be able to timely detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property and take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual obligations and our intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected. Litigation matters related to or arising out of our historical stock-based compensation practices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. As discussed in Part II, Item 8, Note S, “Legal Proceedings,” of this report, derivative actions were filed against us and our current and former officers and directors relating to our historical stock-based compensation practices. No assurance can be given regarding the outcomes of this litigation or any possible government actions relating to our historical stock-based compensation practices. The resolution of such matters may be time consuming and expensive, and may distract management from the conduct of our business. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in litigation actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. We must continue to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing this assessment. During the course of our documentation and testing we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadlines imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for continuing compliance with the requirements of Section 404. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we and/or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude at each fiscal year-end that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In addition, we may incur increased costs in order to address the requirements of Section 404 and other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as other newly proposed or enacted rules of the SEC and the NASDAQ stock market. The extent and timing of incurrence of any such costs is difficult to predict. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If, in any year, we and/or our independent registered public accounting firm cannot attest that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our business and operating results could be harmed and result in a negative market reaction. Our financial and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our financial and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors including, but not limited to: • the timing of orders from customers and shipments to customers; • the decisions of our current and future customers not to renew their subscription agreements with us; • the impact of foreign currency exchange rates on the price of our products in international locations; • the inability to respond to the decline in revenue through the distribution channel; and • the inability to deliver products that are satisfactory to our customers and distribution partners. In addition, we often experience a higher volume of revenue at the end of each quarter. Because of this, fixed costs that are not appropriate for prevailing revenue levels may not be detected until late in any given quarter and operating results could be adversely affected. Due to these factors or other unanticipated events, our financial and operating results in any one quarter may not be a reliable indicator of our future performance. 20 Table of Contents NOVELL, INC. RISK FACTORS (Continued) During fiscal 2009 we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $270.0 million. If our goodwill or intangible assets become further impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. In determining whether an asset is impaired, we must make assumptions regarding recoverability of costs, estimated future cash flows from the asset, intended use of the asset and other related factors. Fair values are estimated using the combination of a discounted cash flow methodology and a market analysis and weighting the results. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our operating results. For more information on our goodwill impairment charge of $270.0 million recorded in fiscal 2009, see Part II, Item 8, Note K, “Goodwill and Intangible Assets” in the consolidated financial statements. Changes to the estimates used in the analysis, including estimated future cash flows, could cause one or more of the business unit segments or indefinite-lived intangibles to be valued differently in future periods. It is at least reasonably possible that future analyses could result in additional material non-cash goodwill impairment charges. Because we recognize revenue from maintenance and subscriptions over the term of the agreements, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We recognize maintenance and subscription revenue from customers ratably over the term of their agreements, which are generally one to three years. As a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is deferred revenue from maintenance and subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in maintenance and/or subscriptions sales in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue in that quarter and will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect this reduced revenue. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our products may not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. Our maintenance and subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the term of the applicable agreement. If we do not make effective use of our substantial cash resources, our financial results could suffer and the value of our common stock could decline. Our ability to increase stockholder value is dependent, in part, on the effective use of our cash balance. We may use these funds to continue to operate our business, finance strategic acquisitions, execute corporate transactions, or repurchase shares of our common stock. We cannot ensure that any of these measures will be executed, or that such measures will improve our financial results or increase stockholder value. We may experience risks in our investments due to changes in the market, which could adversely affect the value or liquidity of our investments. At October 31, 2009, we had $983.5 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. We maintain a portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of securities that may include commercial paper, certificates of deposit, money market funds and government debt securities. These available-for-sale investments are subject to interest rate risk, credit risk, and general market risk and may decline in value. During fiscal 2009, we recorded other-than-temporary impairment charges on our Auction Rate Securities (“ARSs”) of $5.5 million, based on our assessment that it is likely that the fair value of the ARSs will not fully recover in the foreseeable future, given a combination of factors, including the duration, severity and continued declining trend of the fair value of these securities as well as a deterioration in some of the securities’ credit ratings. During fiscal 2008, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $28.7 million. We consider all of our other-than-temporary losses to be credit losses and therefore these losses have been recorded in the “Impairment of investments” line item in our consolidated statements of operations. We estimated that the fair market value of these securities at October 31, 2009 and October 31, 2008 was $10.3 million and $11.1 million, respectively. During fiscal 2009, we sold two of our ARSs for $0.3 million. These two securities had an aggregate cost basis of $10.0 million and had been entirely impaired prior to the sale. Late in fiscal 2009, our remaining six ARSs had improvements in their estimated fair value resulting in a $4.7 million unrealized gain. At October 31, 2009, the original cost of the remaining ARSs was $29.8 million. 21 Table of Contents NOVELL, INC. RISK FACTORS (Continued) As noted above, our investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. As a result, we may experience further reductions in value or loss of liquidity of our investments. In addition, should any investment cease paying or reduce the amount of interest paid to us, our interest income would suffer. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. We have real estate lease commitments for unoccupied space and restoration obligations, and if we are unable to sublet this space on acceptable terms our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We are party to real estate leases worldwide for a total of approximately 634,000 square feet. At October 31, 2009, we actively utilized approximately 95% of this space, or 602,000 square feet. We own 995,000 square feet of office space. At October 31, 2009, approximately 19%, or 213,000 square feet of our owned space is currently unoccupied. Approximately 17% or 165,000 square feet of the owned space is sublet to a third party. Our stock price may be volatile in the future, and the stock price may decline. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. The market price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including: • announcements of quarterly operating results and revenue and earnings forecasts by us that fail to meet or be consistent with our earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or securities analysts; • announcements by either our competitors or our customers that fail to meet or be consistent with their earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or securities analysts; • rumors, announcements, or press articles regarding our, or our competitors’ operations, management, organization, financial condition, or financial statements; • changes in revenue and earnings estimates by us, our investors, or securities analysts; • accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill, intangible assets or other assets; • announcements of planned acquisitions or dispositions by us or by our competitors; • announcements of new or planned products by us, our competitors, or our customers; • gain or loss of a significant customer or partner; • the inception of, or material developments in relation to, litigation initiated by us or brought against us; • inquiries by the SEC, NASDAQ, law enforcement, or other regulatory bodies; • acts of terrorism, the threat of war, and other crises or emergency situations; and • economic slowdowns or the perception of an oncoming economic slowdown in any of the major markets in which we operate. The stock market in general, and the market prices of stocks of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price volatility that has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 