Item 1A. Risk Factors We may experience difficulties, delays or unexpected costs in completing our cost reduction and sales growth strategic initiatives and may not achieve the anticipated benefits of these initiatives. We previously announced four strategic initiatives as part of our plan to increase profitability through revenue growth and cost reduction. These initiatives include a major shift in our sales strategy from direct to indirect sales; a shift to offshore research and development teams to assume functions previously handled in more expensive environments; a move to a shared services model for our financial and administrative functional support in order to reduce costs; and aligning our services business with each business unit segment to drive product revenue. We may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits from one or more of these initiatives, and other events and circumstances, such as difficulties, delays or unexpected costs, may occur which could result in our not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits. If we are unable to realize these benefits, our ability to continue to fund our planned business activities may be adversely affected. We are also subject to the risk of business disruption in connection with our strategic initiatives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. We may not be able to attract and retain new customers through our indirect sales strategy, which may result in decreased or fluctuating revenue. Our ability to attract and retain new customers and achieve significant revenue growth in the future will depend in large part on our ability to continue to establish and maintain strategic distribution and other collaborative relationships with industry-leading hardware manufacturers, distributors, software vendors and enterprise solutions providers such as Microsoft, SAP, Dell, HP, IBM, Capgemini, Atos Origin, Accenture and other third parties that are willing to recommend, design and implement solutions that include our products. These relationships allow us to offer our products to a much larger customer base than we would otherwise be able to reach through our direct sales and marketing efforts. We are currently investing, and plan to continue to invest, significant resources to develop these distribution relationships. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to retain or attract a sufficient number of existing or future distribution partners or that such partners will recommend, or continue to recommend, our products. Our inability to establish or maintain successful relationships with distribution partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. 13 Table of Contents NOVELL, INC. RISK FACTORS (Continued) Our reliance on an indirect sales channel for the distribution of our products could adversely affect the sales of our products. We use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products, including indirect channel partners, such as third-party OEMs, resellers and distributors. A number of our indirect channel partners, in turn, distribute our products via their own networks of channel partners (e.g., distributors and resellers) with whom we have no direct relationship. The distribution of our products through indirect channel partners presents a number of special risks, including but not limited to: • our lack of control over the delivery of our products to end-users; • the ability of resellers and distributors to terminate their relationships with us on short notice; • the failure of our indirect channel partners to market or support our products effectively or to release their products that are embedded with our products in a timely manner; • our inability to effectively manage conflicts between our indirect channel partners and the end-users of our products; • the impact of economic conditions or industry demand on our indirect channel partners; and • the failure of indirect channel partners to devote sufficient resources to marketing and supporting our products. As a result of these risks, revenues derived from indirect channel partners may fluctuate significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our inability to renew SLES subscriptions with those customers who have received SLES certificates from Microsoft would adversely affect our future sales and profitability. The Microsoft Agreements have been a significant factor in the growth of our product revenue and the increase in our gross and operating margins. We expect, barring unforeseen circumstances, to continue to benefit from the Microsoft Agreements in fiscal 2009. Most of the Microsoft SLES certificate sales have been three-year arrangements that will begin to expire in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Accordingly, the ongoing financial benefit of the Microsoft Agreements will depend on our ability to renew SLES subscriptions with those customers who received SLES certificates from Microsoft and the pricing we are able to obtain in connection with such renewals. If we are unable to renew the SLES subscriptions as they expire, or if renewed subscriptions are at a lower price than Microsoft paid us for the SLES certificates, our financial results could be adversely affected if we cannot replace the revenue and profits associated with the SLES certificates sold to, and distributed by, Microsoft with sales and profits from our other products. Our OES and NetWare-related revenue stream may decline at accelerated rates. Sales of our OES and NetWare-related products have been declining for many years and declines at accelerated rates could offset or out-pace the growth in our other products. Although our strategy is to stabilize these sales declines with new product releases and other efforts, combined OES and NetWare-related license and maintenance revenue declined by $8.1 million, or 4%, in fiscal 2008, compared to fiscal 2007. If our strategy proves to be unsuccessful, our combined OES and NetWare-related revenue stream may decline more rapidly than the growth of revenue streams from our other products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. If our Open Platform Solutions, Identity and Security Management and Systems and Resource Management business unit segments do not grow at the rates we anticipate, our results will be negatively impacted. Our growth strategy focuses on three specific business unit segments: Open Platform Solutions, Identity and Security Management, and Systems and Resource Management, with a specific emphasis on open source platforms. We have focused on these businesses because we believe that they represent the best opportunity for us to profitably grow our revenue. Our ability to achieve success with this strategy is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the following: • the growth of these markets; • our development of key products and upgrades; 14 Table of Contents NOVELL, INC. RISK FACTORS (Continued) • the acceptance of our products particularly by enterprise companies, large industry partners and major accounts; • the decisions by customers to upgrade from older versions of our products to newer versions; and • the willingness of our distribution partners to sell our products. If any of the business unit segments mentioned above do not grow at the rates we anticipate, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be adversely affected. The success of our acquisitions is dependent on our ability to integrate personnel, operations, and technology, and if we are not successful, our revenue will not grow at the rate we anticipate. Achieving the benefits of acquisitions depends in part on the successful integration of personnel, operations and technology. The integration of acquisitions is subject to risks and requires significant expenditure of time and resources. The challenges involved in integrating acquisitions include the following: • obtaining synergies from the companies’ organizations and service and product offerings effectively and quickly; • bringing together marketing efforts so that the market receives useful information about the combined companies and their products; • coordinating sales efforts so that customers can do business easily with the combined companies; • integrating product offerings, technology, back office, human resources, and accounting and financial systems; • assimilating employees who come from diverse corporate cultural backgrounds into a common business culture revolving around our business unit segments; and • retaining key officers and employees who possess the necessary skills and experience to quickly and effectively transition and integrate the businesses. Failure to effectively and timely complete the integration of acquisitions could materially harm the business and operating results of the combined companies. Furthermore, we may assume significant liabilities in connection with acquisitions and/or incur substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related expenses, write-off of purchased in-process research and development, impairment of goodwill, amortization of intangible assets, and stock-based compensation expense. Using our cash on acquisitions may prevent us from pursuing other business opportunities. We may not be able to successfully compete in a challenging market for infrastructure software services. The industries we compete in are highly competitive. We expect competition to continue to increase both from existing competitors and new market entrants. Our competitors include, but are not limited to, Microsoft, Oracle, IBM, Sun, HP, Symantec, Avocent, and Computer Associates. Our primary competitor in the Linux market is Red Hat. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. We believe that competitive factors common to all of our segments include: • the pricing of our products and services and the pricing strategies of our competitors; • the timing and market acceptance of new products developed by us and our competitors; • brand and product awareness; • the performance, reliability and security of our products; • the ability to preserve our legacy customer base; • the impact of current macroeconomic conditions on our customers or competitors that could increase pricing and other pressures; 15 Table of Contents NOVELL, INC. RISK FACTORS (Continued) • our ability to establish and maintain key strategic relationships with distributors, resellers, and other partners; and • our ability to attract and retain highly qualified development, services, and managerial personnel. Our inability to meet customer demand for technical support services could adversely affect our customer relationships. We offer technical support services with many of our products. There may be situations where we are unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. We also may be unable to modify the format of our support services to compete with changes in support services provided by our competitors. Any failure to maintain adequate customer support could cause customer dissatisfaction, result in reduced sales of products and reductions in the renewals of software maintenance and support agreements, and, accordingly, have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our inability to maintain a strong brand could impact our future success. We believe that the future success of our business depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brand. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand, we may not be able to expand our customer base or attract talented employees, and our business, financial condition, and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, delays in the introduction of new products due to various factors, which results in lost revenue. In the past we have experienced delays in the introduction of new products due to a number of factors including: the complexity of software products, the need for extensive testing of software to ensure compatibility of new releases with a wide variety of application software and hardware devices, the need to debug products prior to extensive distribution, and with regard to our open source products, our increasing reliance on the work of third parties not employed by us. Our open source offerings depend to a large extent on the efforts of developers not employed by us for the creation and modification of open source technologies. For example, Linus Torvalds, the original developer of the Linux kernel, and a small group of engineers, many of whom are not employed by us, are primarily responsible for the development and evolution of the Linux kernel that is a key component of our OES and SUSE Linux Enterprise offerings. The timing and nature of new releases of the Linux kernel are controlled by these third parties. Delays in developing, completing, or shipping new or enhanced products could continue to result in delayed or reduced revenue for those products and could adversely impact customer acceptance of those offerings. Increasing our foreign research and development operations exposes us to risks that are beyond our control and could affect our ability to operate successfully. In order to enhance the cost-effectiveness of our operations, we have shifted portions of our research and development operations to jurisdictions outside of the United States. The transition of even a portion of our research and development operations to a foreign country involves a number of logistical and technical challenges that could result in product development delays and operational interruptions, which could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business. We may encounter complications associated with the set-up, migration and operation of business systems and equipment in expanded or new facilities. This could result in delays in our research and development efforts and otherwise disrupt our operations. If such delays or disruptions occur, they could damage our reputation and otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. We cannot be certain that any shifts in our operations to offshore jurisdictions will ultimately produce sustained cost savings. We cannot predict the extent of government support, availability of qualified workers, future labor rates, or monetary and economic conditions in any offshore location where we may operate. The relocation of labor resources may have a negative impact on our existing employees, which could negatively impact our operations. In addition, we will likely be faced with competition in these offshore markets for qualified personnel, including skilled design and technical personnel, and we expect this competition to increase as other companies expand their operations offshore. If the supply of qualified personnel becomes limited due to increased competition or otherwise, it could increase our costs and employee turnover rates. 16 Table of Contents NOVELL, INC. RISK FACTORS (Continued) We rely on software licensed from third parties, including open source contributions of third-party programmers and corporations. We use various types of software licensed from unaffiliated third parties. Our open source offerings, for example, are primarily comprised of open source components developed by independent third parties over whom we exercise no control. The collective licenses to third-party technologies are critical to our business. If we are unable to maintain licenses to third-party materials, our distribution of relevant offerings may be delayed until we are able to develop, license, or acquire replacement technologies. Such a delay could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, if key, or a significant percentage of, developers or corporations decide to cease development of the Linux kernel or other open source software, or if we are unable to maintain licenses to proprietary software or such software is no longer available to us on commercially reasonable terms, we would have to either rely on another party (or parties) to develop these technologies, develop them ourselves, or adapt our product strategy accordingly. This could increase our development expenses, delay our product releases and upgrades, and adversely impact customer acceptance of our relevant offerings. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel because of the intense competition for qualified personnel in the software industry. Our ability to maintain our competitive technological position depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified development, services, and managerial personnel. Competition for personnel of the highest caliber is intense in the software industry. The loss of certain key individuals, or a significant group of key personnel, would adversely affect our performance. The failure to successfully hire suitable replacements in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. If third parties claim that we infringed upon their intellectual property, our ability to use some technologies and products could be limited and we may incur significant costs to resolve these claims. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is common in the software industry. We have from time to time received letters or been the subject of claims suggesting that we are infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. In addition, we have faced and expect to continue to face from time to time disputes over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property. The cost and time of defending ourselves can be significant. If an infringement claim is successful, we and our customers may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third parties, and we may be obligated to pay or reimburse our customers for monetary damages. In such instances, we or our customers may not be able to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or at all, and may face delays in product shipment while developing or arranging for alternative technologies, which could adversely affect our operating results. In the event claims for indemnification are brought for intellectual property infringement, we could incur significant expenses, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. We indemnify customers against certain claims that our products, including open source components thereof, infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Although indemnification programs for proprietary software are common in our industry, indemnification programs that cover open source software are less so. In the event that we are required to indemnify our customers against claims for intellectual property infringement, we could incur significant expense reimbursing customers for their legal costs and, in the event those claims are successful, for damages. Legal actions taken by claimants alleging intellectual property infringement could adversely affect our revenue and business plan if these legal actions cause a reduction in demand for our SUSE Linux and Ximian® products. In January 2004, The SCO Group, Inc. (“SCO”) filed suit against us in Utah State Court and the case was later removed to the U.S. District Court in Utah (See Note S, “Legal Proceedings,” in the consolidated financial statements). SCO’s complaint asserted ownership of UNIX copyrights and further alleged that our public statements and filings regarding the ownership of the copyrights in UNIX have harmed SCO’s business reputation and affected its efforts to protect its ownership interest in UNIX and UnixWare. In August 2007, the U.S. District Court granted us summary judgment against SCO, concluding that we retained ownership of the UNIX copyrights, and dismissed SCO’s claims against us. SCO has recently appealed the final judgment of the District Court. If SCO is able to successfully appeal the District Court’s decision, and then succeed on its claims before a jury, our future revenue and business plans could be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents NOVELL, INC. RISK FACTORS (Continued) Matters related to or arising out of our historical stock-based compensation practices, including government actions, litigation matters, and downgrades in our credit ratings, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our historical stock-based compensation practices have exposed us to risks associated with the judgments we made historically as well as those made as a result of our review of those practices. Having determined that the amounts of stock-based compensation expense that should have been recognized in certain historical periods were not material to those periods on either a quantitative or qualitative basis, we made adjustments in accordance with applicable accounting rules. We did not restate our consolidated financial statements for those prior periods. While we believe that we have made appropriate judgments regarding materiality and in determining the correct measurement dates for our stock-based compensation awards, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) may disagree with our judgments. The IRS has not, to our knowledge, expressed any disagreement with our judgments, but if the IRS were to do so, we may incur additional expenses as a result of different tax decisions or other actions not currently contemplated. As discussed in Part II, Item 8, Note S, “Legal Proceedings,” of this report, derivative actions were filed against us and our current and former officers and directors relating to our historical stock-based compensation practices. The plaintiffs in some of these actions have voluntarily dismissed their claims. No assurance can be given regarding the outcomes of the remaining pending litigation or any possible government actions relating to our historical stock-based compensation practices. The resolution of such matters may be time consuming and expensive, and may distract management from the conduct of our business. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in litigation or government actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We may not be able to protect our confidential information, and this could adversely affect our business. We generally enter into contractual relationships with our employees to protect our confidential information. The misappropriation of our trade secrets or other proprietary information could harm our business. In addition, we may not be able to timely detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property and take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual obligations and our intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected. Our financial and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our financial and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the: • timing of orders from customers and shipments to customers; • decisions of our current and future customers not to renew their subscription agreements with us; • impact of foreign currency exchange rates on the price of our products in international locations; • inability to respond to the decline in revenue through the distribution channel; and • inability to deliver products that are satisfactory to our customers and distribution partners. In addition, we often experience a higher volume of revenue at the end of each quarter. Because of this, fixed costs that are out of line with revenue levels may not be detected until late in any given quarter and operating results could be adversely affected. Due to these factors or other unanticipated events, our financial and operating results in any one quarter may not be a reliable indicator of our future performance. If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. In determining whether an asset is impaired, we must make assumptions regarding recoverability of costs, estimated future cash flows from the asset, intended use of the asset and other related factors. Fair values are estimated using the combination of a discounted cash flow methodology and a market analysis and averaging the results. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our operating results. 18 Table of Contents NOVELL, INC. RISK FACTORS (Continued) Because we recognize revenue from maintenance and subscriptions over the term of the agreements, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We generally recognize maintenance and subscription revenue from customers ratably over the term of their agreements, which are generally one to three years. As a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is deferred revenue from maintenance and subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in maintenance and/or subscriptions sales in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue in that quarter and will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect this reduced revenue. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our products may not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. Our maintenance and subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the term of the applicable agreement. We may experience risks in our investments due to changes in the market, which could adversely affect the value or liquidity of our investments. At October 31, 2008, we had $1.1 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. We maintain a portfolio of cash equivalents and short- and long-term investments in a variety of securities that may include commercial paper, certificates of deposit, money market funds and government debt securities. These available-for-sale investments are subject to interest rate risk, credit risk, and general market risk and may decline in value. For example, we have eight auction rate securities (“ARSs”) that are classified as long-term investments on our consolidated balance sheets. During fiscal 2008, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $28.7 million on these securities based on our assessment that it is likely that the fair value of the ARSs will not fully recover in the foreseeable future, given a combination of factors, including the duration, severity and continuing declining trend of the fair value of these securities as well as a deterioration in some of the securities’ credit ratings. As of October 31, 2008, we estimate the fair value of these ARSs to be $11.1 million. Prior to the impairment charges, the original cost of these ARSs was $39.8 million. The fair value of the ARSs could further change significantly in the future and we may be required to record additional other-than-temporary impairment charges if there are further reductions in fair value in future periods. During fiscal 2008, our $77.4 million holdings in an enhanced liquidity fund were frozen due to liquidity issues. We believe that the underlying securities are not impaired if held to maturity. As the underlying securities mature, the fund manager is distributing the cash on a pro rata basis to the fund’s shareholders. During fiscal 2008, we received $55.1 million in fund distributions. As of October 31, 2008, the balance of this investment is $22.3 million. We anticipate that $18.4 million of this balance will be distributed during the next twelve months. The remaining $3.9 million is anticipated to be distributed more than one year after October 31, 2008, and is classified as a long-term investment on our consolidated balance sheet at October 31, 2008. At present, the fund’s cash is being distributed faster than originally scheduled. The fund continues to accrue and pay interest income and, as there are no other-than-temporary impairment or valuation issues with these securities, no impairment charges were recorded in connection with this investment. We hold $1.5 million of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (“Lehman Brothers”) corporate notes. As a result of Lehman Brothers’ bankruptcy announcement, a $1.3 million other-than-temporary charge was recorded in fiscal 2008 related to this security. As noted above, our investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. As a result, we may experience further reductions in value or loss of liquidity of our investments. In addition, should any investment cease paying or reduce the amount of interest paid to us, our interest income would suffer. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. 19 Table of Contents NOVELL, INC. RISK FACTORS (Continued) The risks associated with conducting a global business could adversely affect our results. We are a global corporation with subsidiaries, offices and employees around the world and, as such, we face certain risks in doing business abroad that we do not face domestically. Risks inherent in transacting business internationally could negatively impact our operating results, including: • costs and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • difficulties in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights; • longer payment cycles; • local political and economic conditions; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriating earnings and the threat of “double taxation”; and • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which can affect demand and increase our costs. Our professional services contracts, which include technical support and training services, contain pricing risks and, if our estimates prove inaccurate, could result in unprofitable activities. A portion of our professional services revenue, which includes revenue from technical support and training support, is from fixed-price, fixed-time contracts. Because of the complex nature of the services provided, it is sometimes difficult to accurately estimate the cost, scope and duration of particular client engagements. If we do not accurately estimate the resources required for a project, do not accurately assess the scope of work associated with a project, do not manage the project properly, or do not satisfy our obligations in a manner consistent with the contract, then our costs to complete the project could increase substantially. We have occasionally had to commit unanticipated additional resources to complete projects, and may have to take similar action in the future. We may not be compensated for these additional costs or the commitment of these additional resources. Our professional services clients may cancel or reduce the scope of their engagements with us on short notice. If our clients cancel or reduce the scope of a professional services engagement, we may be unable to reassign our professionals to new engagements without delay. Personnel and related costs constitute a substantial portion of our operating expenses. Because these expenses are relatively fixed, and because we establish the levels of these expenses well in advance of any particular quarter, cancellations or reductions in the scope of client engagements could result in the under-utilization of our professional services employees, causing significant reductions in operating results for a particular quarter. Uncertain economic conditions and reductions in IT spending could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. In the past, unfavorable or uncertain economic conditions have resulted in reduced global IT spending rates that have adversely affected the markets in which we do business. Accordingly, current and/or future weakness in the United States economy and/or in the economies of the geographic regions in which we operate could have a negative impact on our revenues and operating results. While we are unable to predict changes in general economic conditions and how the current global financial and market conditions will affect global IT spending rates, we believe that there is the potential for a slowdown in global IT spending rates in the next few quarters. This could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies, and increased price competition. Any of these events would likely harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. 20 Table of Contents NOVELL, INC. RISK FACTORS (Continued) Our stock price may be volatile in the future, and the stock price may decline. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. For example, despite meeting the majority of analysts’ performance expectations through the first three quarters of fiscal 2008, our stock price declined 16% during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. The market price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including: • announcements of quarterly operating results and revenue and earnings forecasts by us that fail to meet or be consistent with our earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or securities analysts; • announcements by either our competitors or customers that fail to meet or be consistent with their earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or securities analysts; • rumors, announcements, or press articles regarding our, or our competitors’, operations, management, organization, financial condition, or financial statements; • changes in revenue and earnings estimates by us, our investors, or securities analysts; • accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill, intangible assets or other assets; • announcements of planned acquisitions or dispositions by us or by our competitors; • announcements of new or planned products by us, our competitors, or our customers; • gain or loss of a significant customer or partner; • inquiries by the SEC, NASDAQ, law enforcement, or other regulatory bodies; • acts of terrorism, the threat of war, and other crises or emergency situations; and • economic slowdowns or the perception of an oncoming economic slowdown in any of the major markets in which we operate. The stock market in general, and the market prices of stocks of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price volatility that has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our business or operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 