Item 1A. Risk Factors Matters related to or arising out of our historical stock-based compensation practices, including government actions, litigation matters, NASDAQ listing and downgrades in our credit ratings, could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Our historical stock-based compensation practices have exposed us to risks associated with the judgments we made historically as well as those made as a result of our review of those practices. Based on the findings of the review of our historical stock-based compensation practices by the Audit Committee, we concluded that we had utilized incorrect measurement dates for some of the stock-based compensation awards granted during the review period, November 1, 1996 through October 31, 2006. As a result, we have recorded in our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2006, which are included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, a cumulative $19.2 million adjustment for unrecorded stock-based compensation expense, and related income tax effects, as a decrease to retained earnings as of November 1, 2005, the beginning of our 2006 fiscal year, in accordance with the guidance applicable to the initial compliance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, “Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements” and $0.1 million of non-cash expense in the 2006 fiscal year. We determined that the amounts of stock-based compensation expense that should have been recognized in each of the applicable historical periods were not material to those periods on either a quantitative or qualitative basis. Therefore, we did not restate our consolidated financial statements for prior periods. While we believe that we have made appropriate judgments regarding materiality and in determining the correct measurement dates for our stock-based compensation awards , the SEC and the IRS may disagree with our judgments. If the SEC or the IRS disagrees with our judgments, we may have to restate our financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, incur additional expenses as a result of different tax decisions, or take other actions not currently contemplated. As discussed in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” derivative actions were filed against us and our current and former officers and directors after we disclosed the commencement of our Audit Committee’s review of our historical stock-based compensation practices. The disclosure about our historical stock-based compensation practices in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may adversely affect the outcome of that litigation and may result in the filing of additional litigation and in government actions. No assurance can be given regarding the outcomes of litigation or government actions relating to our historical stock-based compensation practices. The resolution of any of such matters may be time consuming and expensive, and may distract management from the conduct of our business. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in litigation or government actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a result of our Audit Committee’s review of our historical stock-based compensation practices, we were delinquent in filing our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended July 31, 2006 and January 31, 2007 and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2006 with the SEC. Consequently, NASDAQ notified us that we were not in compliance with the filing requirements for continued listing as set forth in 14 Novell annual report 2006 Table of Contents Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) and were therefore subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. As a result, we requested and participated in a hearing with NASDAQ to determine our listing status. NASDAQ ultimately permitted our securities to remain listed provided that we file our delinquent periodic reports with the SEC within a specified time frame. On May 25, 2007, we filed our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended July 31, 2006 and January 31, 2007 and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2006 with the SEC. However, if NASDAQ determines that we do not meet the NASDAQ’s listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Furthermore, the disclosure about our historical stock-based compensation practices in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any resulting adverse effects on the Company as described above could cause our credit ratings to be downgraded. A significant downgrade in ratings may increase our cost of borrowing or limit our access to capital. We may experience difficulties, delays or unexpected costs in completing our cost reduction and sales growth strategic initiatives and may not achieve the anticipated benefits of these initiatives. We previously announced three strategic initiatives as part of our plan to increase profitability through revenue growth and cost reduction. These initiatives include a major shift in our sales strategy from direct to indirect sales; an investment in overlapping offshore research and development teams to eventually assume functions once handled by more expensive environments; and a move to a shared services model for our financial and administrative functional support in order to reduce costs. We may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits from one or more of these initiatives, and other events and circumstances, such as difficulties, delays or unexpected costs, may occur which could result in our not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits. If we are unable to realize these benefits, our ability to continue to fund our planned business activities may be adversely affected. In addition, our plans to invest in these initiatives ahead of future growth means that such costs will be incurred whether or not we realize these benefits. We are also subject to the risk of business disruption in connection with our strategic initiatives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our shift to a sales strategy more focused on indirect sales may result in decreased or fluctuating revenue. We have historically relied heavily on our direct sales force in selling our products. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth in the future will depend in large part on our success in establishing relationships with distributors and OEM partners. We are currently investing, and plan to continue to invest, significant resources to develop distribution relationships. Our distributors also sell, or may potentially sell, products offered by our competitors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain or attract a sufficient number of existing or future third party distribution partners or that such partners will recommend, or continue to recommend, our products. The inability to establish or maintain successful relationships with distributors and OEM partners could cause our sales to decline. In addition, indirect channel sales involve a number of special risks. We lack control over the delivery of our products to end-users. Resellers and distributors may have the ability to terminate their relationship with us on short notice. Our indirect channel partners may not market or support our products effectively or be able to release their products embedded with our products in a timely manner. We may not be able to effectively manage conflicts between our various indirect channel and direct customers, and economic conditions or industry demand may adversely affect indirect channel partners, or indirect channel partners may devote greater resources to marketing and supporting the products of other companies. As a result, revenues derived from indirect channel partners may fluctuate significantly in subsequent periods, which may adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Increasing our foreign research and development operations exposes us to risks that are beyond our control and could affect our ability to operate successfully. In order to enhance the cost-effectiveness of our operations, we plan to increasingly shift portions of our research and development operations to jurisdictions with lower cost structures than that available in the United States. The transition of even a portion of our research and development operations to a foreign country involves a Novell annual report 2006 15 Table of Contents number of logistical and technical challenges that could result in product development delays and operational interruptions, which could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business. We may encounter complications associated with the set-up, migration and operation of business systems and equipment in expanded or new facilities. This could result in delays in our research and development efforts and otherwise disrupt our operations. If such delays or disruptions occur, they could damage our reputation and otherwise adversely affect our business and results of operations. We cannot be certain that any shifts in our operations to offshore jurisdictions will ultimately produce the expected cost savings. We cannot predict the extent of government support, availability of qualified workers, future labor rates, or monetary and economic conditions in any offshore locations where we may operate. The relocation of labor resources may have a negative impact on our existing employees, which could negatively impact our operations. In addition, we will likely be faced with competition in these offshore markets for qualified personnel, including skilled design and technical personnel, and we expect this competition to increase as companies expand their operations offshore. If the supply of such qualified personnel becomes limited due to increased competition or otherwise, it could increase our costs and employee turnover rates. Our NetWare revenue stream continues to deteriorate. We have been selling and upgrading NetWare for many years, sales of which have been declining. Our strategy is to offset these declines by sales of our next generation of NetWare enterprise-ready operating system and services, Open Enterprise Server, or OES, which gives customers the opportunity to choose between a NetWare operating system and a Linux operating system, providing NetWare customers a means to migrate to Linux and open source solutions. However, NetWare and OES combined license and maintenance revenue of our business declined by $49.4 million or 18% in fiscal 2006, excluding the impact of favorable foreign exchange rates. If our strategy is unsuccessful, our NetWare and OES revenue stream will deteriorate faster than the growth of revenue streams from our other products. If our identity-driven computing solutions and Linux and platform services solutions do not grow at the rate we anticipate, our growth will be negatively impacted. Our product strategy focuses on two specific areas: identity-driven computing solutions, and Linux and platform services solutions with a specific emphasis on open source platforms. We have focused on these offerings because we believe that identity-driven solutions and open source platforms are two of the fastest growing segments in our industry, and we believe that they represent the best opportunity for us to profitably grow our revenue. Our ability to achieve success with this strategy is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the following: • the growth of these markets; • our development of key product solutions and upgrades; • the acceptance of our solutions by clients, particularly enterprise companies, large industry partners and major accounts; • enticing customers to upgrade from older versions of our products to newer versions; and • successfully selling technical support and other Novell solutions along with our products. We may not be able to successfully compete in a challenging market for computer software and consulting services. The industries we compete in are highly competitive. We expect competition to continue to increase both from existing competitors and new market entrants. Competitors of our identity-driven computing solutions and Linux and platform services solutions include Microsoft, IBM, Sun, HP, Altiris, Oracle, LANDesk, and Computer Associates. Our primary competitor in the North America Linux market is Red Hat. Competitors of our global services and support group include IBM, Accenture, HP, CSC and Capgemini. Many of our competitors have 16 Novell annual report 2006 Table of Contents greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. We believe that competitive factors common to all of our segments include: • the pricing of our products and services and the pricing strategies of our competitors; • the timing and market acceptance of new solutions developed by us and our competitors; • brand and product awareness; • the performance, reliability and security of our products; • the ability to preserve our legacy customer base; • our ability to establish and maintain key strategic relationships with distributors, resellers and other partners; and • our ability to attract and retain highly qualified development, consulting and managerial personnel. If third parties claim that we infringed upon their intellectual property, our ability to use some technologies and products could be limited and we may incur significant costs to resolve these claims. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is common in the software industry. We have from time to time received letters or been the subject of claims suggesting that we are infringing upon the intellectual rights of others. In addition, we have faced and expect to continue to face from time to time disputes over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property. The cost and time of defending ourselves can be significant. If an infringement claim is successful, we and our customers may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third parties, and we may be obligated to pay or reimburse our customers for monetary damages. In such instances, we or our customers may not be able to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or at all, and may face delays in product shipment while developing or arranging for alternative technologies, which could adversely affect our operating results. In the event claims for indemnification are brought for intellectual property infringement, we could incur significant expenses, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. We indemnify customers against certain claims that our products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Additionally, under our Novell Linux Indemnification Program, we offer indemnification for copyright infringement claims made by third parties against registered Novell customers who obtain SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 8, SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 9, SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 10, SUSE Linux Enterprise Desktop 10, SUSE Linux Retail Solution, Novell Point of Service, Novell Linux Desktop, and SUSE Linux Enterprise Desktop, and who, after January 12, 2004, obtained upgrade protection and a qualifying technical support contract from us or a participating channel partner. Although indemnification programs for proprietary software are common in our industry, indemnification programs that cover open source software are less so. For example, the SCO Group, Inc. has brought claims against two end users of Linux and has threatened to bring claims against other end users of Linux arising out of the facts alleged in SCO’s lawsuit against IBM and in SCO’s public statements. In the event that claims for indemnification are brought for intellectual property infringement, we could incur significant expense reimbursing customers for their legal costs and, in the event those claims are successful, for damages. Legal actions being taken by SCO could adversely affect our revenue and business plan if these legal actions cause a reduction in demand for our SUSE Linux and Ximian® products. SCO filed a legal action in March 2003 against IBM alleging, among other things, that Linux is an unauthorized derivative of UNIX and that portions of UNIX intellectual property that SCO alleges it owns have been included in the Linux operating system without authorization. In addition, SCO has warned that legal liability for the use of Linux may extend to commercial users, has threatened such users with litigation and has sought licensing fees from them, and more recently has filed Linux-related suits against other parties. As discussed below, SCO sued Novell for slander of title relating to disputes about whether Novell or SCO owns the copyrights to UNIX, on which some of SCO’s Linux-related claims depend. It is possible that SCO’s actions may reduce general demand Novell annual report 2006 17 Table of Contents for Linux and Linux related products and services. In this event, demand for our Linux (or open source) products and services could decrease, which would reduce revenue, and otherwise adversely affect our business since we have made a strategic decision to become active in the Linux market. A lawsuit filed against us by SCO could result in a substantial judgment against us and adversely affect our revenue and business plan if SCO is successful. In January 2004, SCO filed suit against us in the Third Judicial District Court of Salt Lake County, State of Utah. We removed the claim to the U.S. District Court, District of Utah. SCO’s original complaint alleged that our public statements and filings regarding the ownership of the copyrights in UNIX and UnixWare have harmed SCO’s business reputation and affected its efforts to protect its ownership interest in UNIX and UnixWare. The District Court dismissed the original complaint, but allowed SCO an opportunity to file an amended complaint, which SCO did in July 2004. As with the original complaint, SCO is again seeking to require us to assign all copyrights that we have registered in UNIX and UnixWare to SCO, to prevent us from representing that we have any ownership interest in the UNIX and UnixWare copyrights, to require us to withdraw all representations we have made regarding our ownership of the UNIX and UnixWare copyrights, and to pay actual, special and punitive damages in an amount to be proven at trial. Our revenue and business plan could be adversely affected if SCO is ultimately successful. If the Free Software Foundation releases a new version of the GNU General Public License with certain currently proposed terms, our business may suffer harm. The GNU General Public License, or GPL, is an open source license that governs significant amounts of code used on a royalty-free basis in Linux distributions such as SUSE Linux. The Free Software Foundation, or FSF, owns the copyright to the GPL as well as software licensed under the GPL that is generally considered integral to Linux distributions. In January 2006, the FSF released a draft of a new version of the GPL known as “GPLv3,” which it intends to use for future software releases once it is finalized. The FSF is currently seeking comment on GPLv3, and a final version is expected by July 2007. Once issued, open source developers and IT vendors may elect to provide software under GPLv3, though software made available under earlier GPL versions will remain available under those earlier versions. On November 2, 2006, we announced a new relationship with Microsoft. Among other things, Microsoft agreed to make covenants with our customers not to assert its patents against them. Microsoft also purchased coupons that it can distribute to customers who can in turn redeem them for subscriptions to SUSE Linux Enterprise Server. The FSF criticized our deal with Microsoft because it only provides patent protections for our customers rather than for all licensees of GPL software, and on March 28, 2007, the FSF released a new draft of GPLv3, known as “Discussion Draft 3,” that includes provisions intended to negate at least part of our Microsoft agreement. Discussion Draft 3 includes a term intended to require Microsoft to make the same patent covenants that our customers receive to all recipients of the GPLv3 software included in our products. It also includes a license condition intended to preclude companies from entering into patent arrangements such as our agreement with Microsoft by prohibiting any company that has entered into such an arrangement from distributing GPLv3 code. This license condition does not apply to arrangements entered before March 28, 2007, so as currently proposed it would not apply to our agreement with Microsoft; however, the FSF specifically indicated that this “grandfathering” condition is tentative and may be dropped depending on feedback the FSF receives. If the final version of GPLv3 contains terms or conditions that interfere with our agreement with Microsoft or our ability to distribute GPLv3 code, Microsoft may cease to distribute SUSE Linux coupons in order to avoid the extension of its patent covenants to a broader range of GPLv3 software recipients, we may need to modify our relationship with Microsoft under less advantageous terms than our current agreement, or we may be restricted in our ability to include GPLv3 code in our products, any of which could adversely affect our business and our operating results. In such a case, we would likely explore alternatives to remedy the conflict, but there is no assurance that we would be successful in these efforts. 18 Novell annual report 2006 Table of Contents We have experienced delays in the introduction of new products due to various factors, resulting in lost revenue. We have in the past experienced delays in the introduction of new products due to a number of factors, including the complexity of software products, the need for extensive testing of software to ensure compatibility of new releases with a wide variety of application software and hardware devices, the need to “debug” products prior to extensive distribution, and with regard to our open-source products, our increasing reliance on the work of third parties not employed by Novell. Our open source offerings depend to a large extent on the efforts of developers not employed by us for the creation and update of open source technologies. For example, Linus Torvalds, the original developer of the Linux kernel, and a small group of engineers, many of whom are not employed by us, are primarily responsible for the development and evolution of the Linux kernel that is a key component of our Open Enterprise Server and SUSE Linux Enterprise offerings. The timing and nature of new releases of the Linux kernel are controlled by these third parties. Delays in developing, completing, or shipping new or enhanced products could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those products and could adversely impact customer acceptance of those offerings. We benefit from the open source contributions of third-party programmers and corporations, and if they cease to make these contributions, our product strategy could be adversely affected. Our open source offerings depend to a large extent on the efforts of developers not employed by us for the creation and update of open source technologies. Also, we and many other corporations contribute software into the open source movement. If key members, or a significant percentage, of this group of developers or corporations decides to cease development of the Linux kernel or other open source applications, we would have to either rely on another party (or parties) to develop these technologies, develop them ourselves or adapt our product strategy accordingly. This could increase our development expenses, delay our product releases and upgrades and adversely impact customer acceptance of open source offerings. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel because of the intense competition for qualified personnel in the computer and consulting industries. Our ability to maintain our competitive technological position depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified development, consulting, and managerial personnel. Competition for personnel of the highest caliber is intense in the software and consulting industries. The loss of certain key individuals, or a significant group of key personnel, would adversely affect our performance. The failure to successfully hire suitable replacements in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our relationships with other IT services organizations become impaired, we could lose business. We maintain relationships with IT services organizations that recommend, design and implement solutions that include our products for their customers’ businesses. Any of these organizations could decide at any time to not continue to do business with us or to not recommend our products. A change in the willingness of these IT service organizations to do business with us or recommend our products could result in lower revenue. The success of our acquisitions is dependent on our ability to integrate personnel, operations and technology, and if we are not successful, our revenue will not grow at the rate we anticipate. Achieving the benefits of acquisitions will depend in part on the successful integration of personnel, operations and technology. The integration of acquisitions will be subject to risks and will require significant expenditure of time and resources. The challenges involved in integrating acquisitions include the following: • obtaining synergies from the companies’ organizations; • obtaining synergies from the companies’ service and product offerings effectively and quickly; • bringing together marketing efforts so that the market receives useful information about the combined companies and their products; Novell annual report 2006 19 Table of Contents • coordinating sales efforts so that customers can do business easily with the combined companies; • integrating product offerings, technology, back office, human resources, accounting and financial systems; • assimilating employees who come from diverse corporate cultural backgrounds into a common business culture revolving around our solutions offerings; and • retaining key officers and employees who possess the necessary skills and experience to quickly and effectively transition and integrate the businesses. Failure to effectively and timely complete the integration of acquisitions could materially harm the business and operating results of the combined companies. In addition, goodwill related to any acquisitions could become impaired. Furthermore, we may assume significant liabilities in connection with acquisitions we make or become responsible for liabilities of the acquired businesses. Our financial and operating results vary and may fall below analysts’ estimates, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. We currently provide estimates of our revenue and earnings per share for the full year with updates as changes warrant. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors including, but not limited to: • timing of orders from customers and shipments to customers; • impact of foreign currency exchange rates on the price of our products in international locations; • inability to respond to the decline in revenue through the distribution channel; and • inability to deliver solutions as expected by our customers and systems integration partners. In addition, we often experience a higher volume of revenue at the end of each quarter and during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. Because of this, fixed costs that are out of line with revenue levels may not be detected until late in any given quarter and results of operations could be adversely affected. Due to these factors or other unanticipated events, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be reliable indicators of our future performance. In addition, from time to time our quarterly financial results may fall below the expectations of the securities and industry analysts who publish reports on our company, or of investors generally. This could cause the market price of our securities to decline, perhaps significantly. We face increased risks in conducting a global business. We are a global corporation with subsidiaries, offices and employees around the world and, as such, we face risks in doing business abroad that we do not face domestically. Certain risks inherent in transacting business internationally could negatively impact our operating results, including: • costs and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • difficulties in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights; • longer payment cycles; • local political and economic conditions; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriating earnings and the threat of “double taxation”; and • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which can affect demand and increase our costs. 20 Novell annual report 2006 Table of Contents We may not be able to protect our confidential information, and this could adversely affect our business. We generally enter into contractual relationships with our employees to protect our confidential information. The misappropriation of our trade secrets or other proprietary information could seriously harm our business. In addition, we may not be able to timely detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property and take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual obligations and our intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected. Our consulting services contracts contain pricing risks and, if our estimates prove inaccurate, we could lose money. Our IT consulting business derives a portion of its revenue from fixed-price, fixed-time contracts. Because of the complex nature of the services provided, it is sometimes difficult to accurately estimate the cost, scope and duration of particular client engagements. If we do not accurately estimate the resources required for a project, do not accurately assess the scope of work associated with a project, do not manage the project properly, or do not satisfy our obligations in a manner consistent with the contract, then our costs to complete the project could increase substantially. We have occasionally had to commit unanticipated additional resources to complete projects, and may have to take similar action in the future. We may not be compensated for these additional costs or the commitment of these additional resources. Our IT consulting clients may cancel or reduce the scope of their engagements with us on short notice. If our clients cancel or reduce the scope of an engagement with our IT consulting business, we may be unable to reassign our professionals to new engagements without delay. Personnel and related costs constitute a substantial portion of our operating expenses. Because these expenses are relatively fixed, and because we establish the levels of these expenses well in advance of any particular quarter, cancellations or reductions in the scope of client engagements could result in the under-utilization of our professional services employees, causing significant reductions in operating results for a particular quarter. Conversion of our Debentures into shares of our common stock will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. The conversion of some or all of our $600 million aggregate principal amount of senior convertible debentures due 2024, (the “Debentures”, into shares of common stock will dilute the ownership interest of existing common stockholders. Any large volume sales in the public market of the common stock issued upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the Debentures may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Debentures could depress the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 