ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The risk factors described below are not inclusive of all risk factors but highlight those that the Company believes are the most significant and that could impact its performance and financial results. These risk factors should be considered together with all other information presented in this Form 10-K report. The Company faces risks arising from potential material weaknesses in its internal control environment. As a result of the matters addressed in the recently completed audit committee inquiry, as further described in Note 2, Audit Committee Inquiry and Restatement, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, as well as an internal review by Company management, management identified a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting with respect to its accounting for income taxes. While management believes that this material weakness was remediated as of January 31, 2008, its remedial actions may prove to be ineffective or inadequate and expose the Company to further risk of misstatements in its financial statements. In such circumstances, investors and other users of the Company’s financial statements may lose confidence in the reliability of the Company’s financial information and the Company could fail to comply with certain representations, warranties and covenants in its debt and other financing-related agreements or be obligated to incur additional costs to improve the internal controls. The Company’s failure or inability to remediate the material weakness in a timely and effective manner could also adversely affect its reputation among customers and its operating prospects, if customers perceive the Company as experiencing financial control or other financial difficulties. See Part II – Item 9A – Controls and Procedures for further description of the material weakness identified by management and related remediation actions. Litigation and regulatory inquiries associated with the restatement of the Company’s prior period financial statements could result in substantial costs, penalties and other adverse effects. Substantial costs may be incurred to defend and resolve regulatory proceedings and litigation arising out of or relating to matters addressed in the recently completed audit committee inquiry. These proceedings include the ongoing audits in process as well as audits expected to commence of the Company’s tax returns for some of the periods affected by the restatement. In September 2007, the Company deposited $135 million with the U.S. Treasury, which reflected management’s preliminary assessment of additional taxes and interest that the Company might owe the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for prior years as a result of tax compliance matters identified at the time and did not include any amount with respect to potential penalties. In completing the restatement, the Company examined the appropriateness of the Company’s accounting treatment of the tax consequences of each type of intercompany transaction in the various taxing jurisdictions in which the Company operates. As a result of this analysis, the Company determined that additional financial statement reserves were required with respect to certain other lesser tax compliance matters. The Company cannot predict when the ongoing IRS audit will be completed or the amount or timing of the final resolution with the IRS or other relevant taxing authorities of the matters that gave rise to the restatement, including the amount of any penalties that may be imposed, which could be substantial. 8 Table of Contents The Company is also subject to other regulatory and litigation proceedings relating to, or arising out of, the restatement, including pending investigations by the SEC and the Department of Justice, purported securities class action lawsuits and derivative lawsuits seeking relief against certain of the Company’s officers and directors. These proceedings could also result in civil or criminal fines and other non-monetary penalties. The Company has not reserved any amount in respect of these matters in its consolidated financial statements. The Company cannot predict whether any monetary losses it experiences in the proceedings will be covered by insurance or whether insurance proceeds recovered will be sufficient to offset such losses. Pending civil, regulatory and criminal proceedings may also divert the efforts and attention of the Company’s management from business operations, particularly if adverse developments are experienced in any of them, such as an expansion of the investigations being conducted by the SEC and the Department of Justice. See Part I – Item 3 – Legal Proceedings, for further discussion of these pending matters. Changes in the Company’s effective tax rate may affect operating results. The Company’s effective tax rate is subject to fluctuation based on a variety of factors, such as: • the geographical mix of income derived from the countries in which it operates; • currently applicable tax rates, including particularly in the United States; • the nature, timing and impact of permanent or temporary changes in tax laws or regulations, including the termination or extension of provisions under U.S. federal income tax law that are or may become subject to “sunset”, such as research and development credits and incentives related to U.S. domestic production; • the timing and amount of the Company’s repatriation of foreign earnings; • the timing and nature of the Company’s resolution of uncertain income tax positions; and • the Company’s success in managing its effective tax rate through the implementation of global tax and cash management strategies. Fluctuations in the Company’s effective tax rate may affect operating results. In the near term, the Company expects that its effective tax rate will be affected in particular by the repeal of section 936 of the Internal Revenue Code, which allowed U.S. companies to operate in Puerto Rico at a significantly reduced U.S. tax cost, and recent changes in the IRS’s stance regarding intercompany transfer pricing, which involve revised IRS audit practices for intercompany transactions. The Company operates in numerous countries and is subject to taxation in all of the countries in which it operates. The tax rules and regulations in such countries can be complex and, in many cases, uncertain in their application. In addition to challenges to the Company’s tax positions arising during routine audits, disputes can arise with the taxing authorities over the interpretation or application of certain rules to the Company’s business conducted within the country involved and with respect to intercompany transactions when the parties are taxed in different jurisdictions. Pending proceedings to which the Company is subject include ongoing audits of the Company’s tax returns for some of the periods affected by the restatement, and the Company cannot predict the timing or outcome of the completion of that audit, which could result in the imposition of additional taxes and substantial penalties. See “Litigation and regulatory inquiries associated with the restatement of the Company’s prior period financial statements could result in substantial costs, penalties and other adverse effects.” Changes in product mix and product pricing may affect the Company’s operating results particularly with the expansion of the systems business, in which the Company experiences significantly longer sales cycles with less predictable revenue and no certainty of future revenue streams from related consumable product offerings and services. The Company’s TFM strategy is partially reliant on sales of integrated systems. Because systems are generally sold at lower gross margins than many other products, gross margins could decline if systems sales continue to grow as a percentage of total sales and the anticipated future revenue streams from related consumable product offerings and services are not realized. 9 Table of Contents The Company’s systems business generally also experiences significantly longer sales cycles and involves less predictable revenue and less certainty of future revenue streams from related consumable product offerings and services. In addition, the profitability of the Company’s systems sales depends substantially on the ability of management to estimate accurately the costs involved in manufacturing and implementing the relevant system according to the customer’s specifications. Company estimates can be adversely affected by disruptions in a customer’s plans or operations and unforeseen events, such as manufacturing defects. Failure to accurately estimate the Company’s cost of system sales can adversely affect the profitability of those sales, and the Company may not be able to recover lost profits through pricing or other actions. Increases in costs of manufacturing and operating costs may affect operating results. The Company’s costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in commodity prices, raw materials, energy and related utilities and cost of labor. The achievement of the Company’s financial objectives is reliant on its ability to manage these fluctuations through cost savings actions and efficiency initiatives. The Company may not be able to achieve the savings anticipated from its cost reduction and margin improvement initiatives, including the timing of completion of its facilities rationalization initiative. In fiscal year 2006, the Company began an extensive program to restructure manufacturing operations, including the closing of up to 12 facilities around the globe. One of the purposes of this initiative is to reduce manufacturing costs and improve gross margins. Unexpected delays or other factors in the facilities rationalization initiative and other cost reduction initiatives could impact the Company’s ability to realize the anticipated savings and to improve or maintain gross margins. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates may affect operating results. In fiscal year 2007, the Company derived 68% of sales from outside the United States. Sales outside the United States are typically made in the local currencies of those countries. As a result, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may affect operating results. Giving effect to interest rate swaps, the Company’s debt portfolio was approximately 42% variable rate at July 31, 2007. Fluctuations in interest rates may affect operating results. The Company may not be able to obtain regulatory approval or market acceptance of new technologies. Part of the Company’s planned growth is dependent on new products and technologies. Some of those new products may require regulatory approval. Growth from those new technologies may not be realized if regulatory approval is not granted or customer demand for those products or technologies does not materialize. Changes in demand for the Company’s products and business relationships with key customers and suppliers, including delays or cancellations in shipments, may affect operating results. To achieve its objectives, the Company must develop and sell products that are subject to the demands of customers. This is dependent on many factors including, but not limited to, managing and maintaining relationships with key customers, responding to the rapid pace of technological change and obsolescence, which may require increased investment by or greater pressure to commercialize developments rapidly or at prices that may not fully recover the associated investment, and the effect on demand resulting from customers’ research, development and capital expenditure plans. The manufacturing of the Company’s products is dependent on an adequate supply of raw materials. The Company’s ability to maintain an adequate supply of raw materials could be impacted by the availability and price of those raw materials and maintaining relationships with key suppliers. The Company may not successfully enforce patents and protect proprietary products and manufacturing techniques. Some of the Company’s products, as well as some competitor’s products, are based on patented technology and other intellectual property rights. Some of these patented technologies and intellectual property require substantial resources to develop. Operating results may be affected by the costs associated with the Company’s defense of its intellectual property against unauthorized use by others as well as third-party challenges to its intellectual property. The Company could also experience disruptions in its business, including loss of revenues and adverse effects on its prospects, if its patented or other proprietary technologies are successfully challenged. 10 Table of Contents The Company may not be able to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions. In so far as acquisition opportunities are identified, there is no assurance of the Company’s ability to complete any such transactions and successfully integrate the acquired business as planned. The Company is subject to domestic and international competition in all of its global markets. The Company is subject to competition in all of the global markets in which it operates. The Company’s achievement of its objectives is reliant on its ability to successfully respond to many competitive factors including, but not limited to, pricing, technological innovations, product quality, customer service, manufacturing capabilities and hiring and retention of qualified personnel. The Company may be impacted by global and regional economic conditions and legislative, regulatory and political developments. The Company conducts operations around the globe. The Company expects to continue to derive a substantial portion of sales and earnings from outside the United States. A recession in the United States could have a negative impact on demand for the Company’s products not only in the United States, but also globally. Sales and earnings could also be affected by the Company’s ability to manage the risks and uncertainties associated with the application of local legal requirements or the enforceability of laws and contractual obligations, trade protection measures, changes in tax laws, regional political instability, war, terrorist activities, severe or prolonged adverse weather conditions and natural disasters as well as health epidemics or pandemics. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 11 Table of Contents 