RISK FACTORS Ownership of our common stock involves a high degree of risk; you should consider carefully the factors set forth below, as well as other information contained in this annual report. We have incurred significant losses and anticipate future losses; our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed a reservation that we can continue as a going concern. At December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $4,067,755 and a shareholders’ deficit of $325,000. Although we are attempting to obtain financing for our prospective acquisitions, as to the obtaining of which there can be no assurance, future operating and public company related -losses are likely to occur. As a result of these, among other factors, we received a report on our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008, from our independent accountants that include an explanatory paragraph stating that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Consistent with our business plan, we plan on raising sufficient debt and/or equity to effectuate the proposed acquisitions and fund our business plan. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in acquiring operations, generating revenues, or reaching or maintaining profitable operations. Our existing financial resources are insufficient to meet our ongoing operating expenses, as well as to fund our prospective acquisitions and business plan. We have no sources of income at this time and no existing cash balances that are adequate to meet our ongoing operating expenses or to fund our prospective acquisitions and business plan. Unless we are able to raise additional debt and/or equity, we will neither be able to close our prospective acquisitions and effectuate our business plan nor to meet our ongoing operating expenses. No assurances can be given that we will be able to meet the closing conditions in respect of such acquisitions, whether financing or other contingencies, or, thereafter, to generate revenues and reach or maintain profitable operations. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract, hire, and retain seasoned veterans in the wine industry and executives with international distribution experience. The efforts and abilities of our to-be-hired senior management team and key employees will be critical to our establishment of a viable business model. The motivation, skills, experience, and industry contacts of such prospective persons are expected to benefit our operations and administration significantly. The failure to attract, motivate, and retain such members of our senior management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our budget and, in turn, our operating results. Risks associated with our proposed acquisitions could adversely affect our prospective business. Currently expected, and future, acquisitions will cause us to incur debt, issue shares of our capital stock, increase contingent liabilities, and increase interest expense and amortization expense related to intangible assets, as well as to experience dilution in any earnings per share and return on capital. Future impairment losses on goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life, or restructuring charges, could also occur as a result of acquisitions. The current global recession and credit crisis may deepen and the recovery may be slow, adversely impacting our financial results and liquidity. Stable economic conditions and credit availability are important for us to obtain the financing required to close our prospective acquisitions and, thereafter, to operate our acquired businesses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such financing on terms acceptable to us, of at all. Competition could have a material adverse effect on our prospective business. We will be entering a highly competitive industry and the dollar amount and unit volume of our expected sales could be negatively affected by our inability to maintain or increase prices, a general decline in wine consumption, or the decision of wholesalers, retailers, or consumers to purchase competitive products instead of commencing to purchase ours. Wholesaler, retailer, and consumer purchasing decisions are influenced by, among other things, the perceived absolute or relative overall value of products, including their quality or pricing, compared to competitive products. Our unit volume and dollar sales could also be affected by pricing, purchasing, financing, operational, advertising, or promotional decisions made by wholesalers, state and provincial agencies, and retailers, which could affect their supply of, or consumer demand for, our prospective products. We could also experience higher than expected selling, general, and administrative expenses if we find it necessary to increase the number of our personnel or our advertising or promotional expenditures to establish and then maintain a competitive position or for other reasons. 3 We expect to operate in a highly competitive consumer category. While we expect to compete for customers largely on the basis of product quality, price will also an important basis of selection and competition. Our success will depend on establishing and maintaining the strength of our consumer brands by continuously improving our offerings and appealing to the changing needs and preferences of our customers and end consumers. Our prospective business could be adversely affected by a decline in the consumption of products we plan to sell. Since 1995, there have been modest increases in consumption of wine in many of the geographic markets that we intend to enter. There have been periods in the past, however, in which there were substantial declines in the overall per-capita consumption of wine in the U.S. and other markets in which we intend to participate. A limited or general decline in consumption in our product categories could occur in the future due to a variety of factors, including: · A general decline in economic or geo-political conditions; · Increased concern about the health consequences of consuming wine and about drinking and driving; · A trend toward a healthier diet, including beverages such as juices and water products; · The increased activity of anti-alcohol groups; · Increased federal, state or foreign excise or other taxes on wine; and · Increased regulation placing restrictions on the purchase or consumption of wine. In addition, our initial and continued success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop products. The initial launch of products and success of any new products, if any, are inherently uncertain especially with regard to their appeal to consumers. The launch of our prospective business and any new products can give rise to a variety of costs and an unsuccessful launch, among other things, can affect consumer perception of existing brands. We expect to rely on the performance of wholesale distributors, major retailers, and chains for the success of our business. In the U.S., Canada, Australia, and New Zealand, we expect to sell our products principally to wholesalers for resale to retail outlets, as well as directly to major retailers and chains. The replacement or poor performance of such customers chains could materially and adversely affect our budgets and, in turn, our expected results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to collect accounts receivable from our customers could also materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The industry is being affected by the trend toward consolidation in the wholesale and retail distribution channels. If we are unable successfully to enter this type of a changing environment, our budgets and, in turn our expected net income, share of sales, and volume growth could be negatively affected. In addition, our expected wholesalers and retailers offer products that compete directly with our expected products for retail shelf space and consumer purchases. Accordingly, such wholesalers or retailers may give higher priority to products of our prospective competitors that to us. In the future, our prospective wholesalers and retailers may not commence or continue to purchase our products or provide our products with adequate levels of promotional support. 4 The wine business is subject to seasonality. The wine business is subject to seasonality. As a result, in response to wholesaler and retailer demand that precedes consumer purchases, we expect that our wine sales will be typically highest during the third quarter of our fiscal year. We will depend upon our trademarks and proprietary rights, and any failure to protect our intellectual property rights or any claims that we are infringing upon the rights of others may adversely affect our potential competitive position and brand equity. Among other items, our future success will depend significantly on our ability to protect our future brands and products and to defend such intellectual property rights. The companies and related brands that we expect to acquire have been granted various trademark registrations covering such brands and products and expect to file trademark applications seeking to protect any newly-developed brands and products. We cannot be certain that trademark registrations will be issued with respect to any of such prospective trademark applications. There is also a risk that we could, by omission, fail timely to renew or protect a trademark or that our competitors will attempt to challenge, invalidate, or circumvent any existing or future trademarks to be issued to, or licensed by, us. Our prospective business could be adversely affected by the loss of any brand or infringement of any intellectual property rights. We will also become subject to risks in this area because existing trade secret and trademark laws offer only limited protection, and the laws of some countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured, or sold may not fully protect our products from infringement by others. In addition, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. We intend to sell products globally and will become exposed to currency exchange rate risks, particularly related to the recent strengthening of the U.S. dollar. We intend to manufacture, source, and sell products in the U.S., Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and, possibly, the U.K. A change in the value of the currencies will impact our financial statements when translated into U.S. dollars. In addition, fluctuations in currency can adversely impact the cost position in local currency of our prospective products, making it more difficult for our prospective operations to compete. The exchange rates between some of the major foreign currencies in which our prospective subsidiaries will operate (including the British pound sterling, Australian dollar, New Zealand dollar, and Canadian dollar) and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may do so in the future. We intend to manufacture and source many products internationally and will become exposed to risks associated with doing business globally. We intend to manufacture, source, and sell products in the U.S., Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and, possibly, the U.K. Accordingly, we will become subject to risks associated with changes in political, economic and social environments, local labor conditions, changes in laws, regulations, and policies of foreign governments, trade disputes with the U.S., as well as U.S. laws affecting activities of U.S. companies abroad, including tax laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. Exchange rate fluctuations may impact the cost of sourced products and our financial results. Risks associated with interest rate fluctuations, as well as commodity and energy availability, price increases and volatility could adversely affect our prospective business. We will become exposed to risks associated with interest rate fluctuations and commodity price volatility arising from weather, supply conditions, geopolitical and economic variables, and other unpredictable external factors. We expect to purchase commodities, including glass and grapes. Availability, increases, and volatility in the prices of these commodities, as well as products sourced from third parties and energy used in making, distributing, and transporting our prospective products, could increase the manufacturing costs of our products. There is no assurance that we will be able to avoid the impact of such pricing issues or to pass them to our customers. 5 We will become subject to a wide range of government regulations. We will become subject to a range of regulations in the countries in which we intend to operate. Where we produce products, we will be subject to environmental laws and regulations and may be required to obtain permits and licenses to operate its facilities. Where we market and sell products, we may be subject to laws and regulations on trademark and brand registration, packaging and labeling, distribution methods and relationships, pricing and price changes, sales promotions, advertising, and public relations. We may also be subject to rules and regulations relating to changes in officers or directors, ownership, or control. We intend to operate in, and believe that our prospective acquisitions currently are in, compliance in all material respects with all applicable governmental laws and regulations in the countries in which it will, and they currently, operate. We also believe that the cost of administration and compliance with, and liability under, such laws and regulations will not have a material adverse impact on our budget and, in turn, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. An increase in import and excise duties or other taxes or government regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The U.S., the U.K., Canada, Australia, and other countries in which we intend to operate impose import and excise duties and other taxes on wine in varying amounts which have been subject to change. Significant increases in import and excise duties or other taxes on wine could materially and adversely affect our budgets and, in turn, our expected financial condition or results of operations. Many U.S. states have considered proposals to increase, and some of these states have increased, state alcohol excise taxes. In addition, federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies extensively regulate the wine industry concerning such matters as licensing, trade, and pricing practices, permitted and required labeling, advertising and relations with wholesalers and retailers. Certain federal and state or provincial regulations also require warning labels and signage. New or revised regulations or increased licensing fees, requirements, or taxes could also have a material adverse effect on our budgets and, in turn, our expected financial condition or results of operations. Our reliance upon complex information systems distributed worldwide and our reliance upon third-party global networks means we could experience interruptions to our business services. We expect to depend on information technology to enable us to operate efficiently and interface with customers, as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency of our operations. If we do not allocate, and effectively manage, the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure after we close our prospective acquisitions, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. As with substantially all information systems, we expect that, notwithstanding our bet efforts, our systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information, or disrupting business processes. Such unauthorized access could disrupt our business, following the acquisitions, and could result in the loss of assets. We will be subject to substantial price fluctuations for grapes and grape-related materials, and we have a limited group of suppliers of glass bottles. Upon the closing of our prospective acquisitions, as to which there can be no assurance, we expect that our business will become heavily dependent upon raw materials, such as grapes and packaging materials, from third-party suppliers. We could experience raw material supply, production, or shipment difficulties that could adversely affect our ability to supply goods to our customers. Increases in the costs of raw materials would also directly affect us. Although we believe that we will have adequate sources of grape supplies, in the event demand for certain wine products exceeds expectations, we could experience shortages. The wine industry swings between cycles of grape oversupply and undersupply. In a severe oversupply environment, the ability of wine producers and distributors to raise prices is limited and, in certain situations, the competitive environment may put pressure on producers to lower prices. Further, although an oversupply may enhance opportunities to purchase grapes or wines at lower costs, a producer’s selling and promotional expenses associated with the sale of its wine products nevertheless can rise in such an environment. 6 We expect that glass bottle costs will be one of the largest components of cost of product sold. In the U.S., Canada, and Australia, glass bottles have only a small number of producers. The inability of any of our glass bottle suppliers to satisfy our requirements could adversely affect our business. Contamination could harm the integrity or customer support for our brands and adversely affect the sales of our products. The success of the brands that we intend to acquire will depend, among other reasons, upon the positive image that consumers have of those brands. Contamination, whether arising accidentally or through deliberate third-party action, or other events that harm the integrity or consumer support for those brands, could adversely affect their sales. Contaminants in raw materials purchased from third parties and used in the production of the wine or defects in the fermentation process could lead to low beverage quality, as well as to illness among, or injury to, consumers of those products and may result in reduced sales of the affected brand or of all of our prospective brands. Various diseases, pests, and certain weather conditions could affect quality and quantity of grapes. Various diseases, pests, fungi, viruses, drought, frosts, and certain other weather conditions could affect the quality and quantity of grapes available, decreasing the supply of our products and negatively impacting revenues and potential profitability. We cannot guarantee that our prospective grape suppliers will succeed in preventing contamination in existing vineyards or that we will succeed in preventing contamination in future vineyards that we may acquire. Future government restrictions regarding the use of certain materials used in grape growing may increase vineyard costs and/or reduce production. Growing agricultural raw materials also requires adequate water supplies. A substantial reduction in water supplies could result in material losses of grape crops and vines or other crops, which could lead to a shortage in the supply of our potential products. An increase in the cost of energy or the cost of environmental regulatory compliance could affect our profitability. We have experienced significant increases in energy costs, and energy costs could continue to rise, which would result in higher transportation, freight and other operating costs. We may experience significant future increases in the costs associated with environmental regulatory compliance. Our future operating expenses and margins will be dependent on our ability to manage the impact of cost increases. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to pass along increased energy costs or increased costs associated with environmental regulatory compliance to our customers through increased prices. Changes in accounting standards and taxation requirements could affect our financial results. New accounting standards or pronouncements that may become applicable to us from time to time, or changes in the interpretation of existing standards and pronouncements, could have a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods. We also expect to become subject to income tax in the numerous jurisdictions in which we expect to commence to generate revenues. In addition, our products will become subject to import and excise duties and/or sales or value-added taxes in the jurisdictions in which we expect to operate. Increases in income tax rates could reduce our after-tax income from affected jurisdictions, while increases in indirect taxes could affect our prospective products’ affordability and, therefore, reduce our sales. Class action or other litigation relating to alcohol abuse or the misuse of alcohol could adversely affect our business. There has been increased public attention directed at the beverage alcohol industry, which we believe is due to concern over problems related to alcohol abuse, including drinking and driving, underage drinking, and health consequences from the misuse of alcohol. Several beverage alcohol producers have been sued in several courts regarding alleged advertising practices relating to underage consumers. Adverse developments in these or similar lawsuits or a significant decline in the social acceptability of beverage alcohol products that results from these lawsuits could materially adversely affect our prospective business. 7 Our securities are considered highly speculative. Our securities must be considered highly speculative, generally because of the historic lack of any material business and the current status of our prospective acquisitions. Accordingly, we have neither generated any material revenues nor have we realized a profit from our operations to date and there is no likelihood little likelihood that we will generate any revenues or realize any profits unless after we have closed one or more of our prospective acquisitions. Since we have not generated any material revenues, we expect that we will need to raise additional monies through the sale of our equity securities or debt in order to effectuate our business plan and continue our business operations. Trading of our common stock may be restricted by the SEC’s “Penny Stock” regulations which may limit a shareholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors.” The term “accredited investor” refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in and limit the marketability of, our common stock. Shareholders should be aware that, according to SEC, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include (i) control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; (ii) manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; (iii) “boiler room” practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; (iv) excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and (v) the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired consequent investor losses. Our management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. Although we do not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, management will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent the described patterns from being established with respect to our common stock. FINRA sales practice requirements may also limit a shareholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. In addition to the “penny stock” rules described above, FINRA has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. FINRA’s requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares. 8 Our common stock has been thinly traded and, as a result, you may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all if you need to liquidate your shares. The shares of our common stock have been, and may continue to be, be thinly-traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing shares at or near ask prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company that is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors, and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume and, that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares of common stock until such time as we close one or more of our prospective acquisitions and became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares of common stock is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer that has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on Securities price. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our shares of common stock will develop or be sustained or that any trading levels will be sustained. Due to these conditions, we cannot provide any assurances that our shareholders will be able to sell their shares at or near ask prices or at all. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs for us and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. The price of our common stock could be highly volatile. It is likely that our common stock will be subject to price volatility, low volumes of trades, and large spreads in bid and ask prices quoted by market makers. Due to the low volume of shares that may be traded on any trading day, persons buying or selling in relatively small quantities may easily influence prices of our common stock. This low volume of trades could also cause the price of our stock to fluctuate greatly, with large percentage changes in price occurring in any trading day session. Holders of our common stock may also not be able to liquidate their investment readily or may be forced to sell at depressed prices due to low volume trading. If high spreads between the bid and ask prices of our common stock exist at the time of a purchase, the price of the common stock would need to appreciate substantially on a relative percentage basis for an investor to recoup an investment in our shares. Broad market fluctuations and general economic and political conditions may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. No assurance can be given that an orderly and active market in our common stock will develop or be sustained. If an orderly and active market does not develop, holders of our common stock may be unable to sell their shares, if at all. Rule 144 sales in the future may have a depressive effect on the price of our common stock. Eleven million of the approximately 12 million shares of our common stock constitute “restricted securities” within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. As restricted shares, they may be resold only pursuant to an effective registration statement or under the requirements of Rule 144 or other applicable exemptions from registration under the Securities Act and as required under applicable state securities laws. In essence, Rule 144 provides that a person who has held restricted securities for six months may, under certain conditions, sell restricted securities without any volume limitations. For our Company, the time period is not less than one year from the date on which we cease being a “shell company” and have filed the relevant Current Report on Form 8-K in respect of such transition. A sale under Rule 144 or under any other exemption from such Act may have a depressive effect upon the price of the common stock in any market that may develop. Investors’ interests in us will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in net book value per share if we issue additional shares or raise funds through the sale of equity securities. In the event that we are required to issue any additional shares or enter into private placements to raise financing through the sale of equity securities, investors’ interests in us will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share depending on the price at which such securities are sold. If we issue any such additional shares, such issuances also will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all other shareholders. Further, any such issuance may result in a change in our control. 9 Our Bylaws contain provisions indemnifying our officers and directors against all costs, charges, and expenses incurred by them. Our Bylaws contain provisions with respect to the indemnification of our officers and directors against all costs, charges, and expenses, including an amount paid to settle an action or satisfy a judgment, actually and reasonably incurred by him, including an amount paid to settle an action or satisfy a judgment in a civil, criminal, or administrative action or proceeding to which he is made a party by reason of his being or having been one of our directors or officers. Our Bylaws do not contain anti-takeover provisions, which could result in a change of our management and directors if there is a take-over of us. We do not currently have a shareholder rights plan or any anti-takeover provisions in our Bylaws. Without any anti-takeover provisions, there is no deterrent for a take-over of our Company, which may result in a change in our management and directors. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Item 