Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Description of Principal Business The Company generates revenues from four related display oriented businesses (78% of consolidated sales in fiscal 2006) as well as distribution of parts and accessories for consumer products (22% of consolidated sales in fiscal 2006). Substantially all of the Company’s earnings were derived from the display segment of the business in fiscal 2006. Revenues, by category, from the display segment for fiscal 2006 were as follows: Monitor revenue (76.7%) Home Entertainment CRT revenue (5.6%) Data Display CRT (16.6%) Components (1.1%) See Note 15. “Segment Information” to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Manufacturing and distribution facilities are located in Georgia, Florida, Louisiana, Pennsylvania, New York, Kentucky and Lye, U.K., in addition to several sales and service agents located worldwide. The consumer parts and accessories distribution business is operated under the Fox International name, headquartered in Bedford Heights, Ohio with one additional distribution center in Richardson, Texas. The Company continues to explore opportunities to expand its product offerings in the display industry. The Company anticipates that this expansion will be achieved by adding new products or by acquiring existing companies that would enhance the Company’s position in the display industry. Management continually evaluates product trends in the industry and divisions in which the Company operates. Overall trends are discussed herein under “Flat Panel and Other Technology”. Research and development prior to 2003 consisted primarily of establishing the interchangeability of products from various manufacturers and, when advantageous, manufacturing products to replace original electronic parts. Subsequent to that period, the Company has expended significant research and development funds (approximately $1.3 million in fiscal 2006) in both high resolution projection displays and active matrix liquid crystal display (“AMLCD”) technologies. 2 Segment Information This information is provided in Note 15. Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Principal Products Monitor Displays The Company’s monitor operations are conducted at Phelps, New York (Z-Axis); Birdsboro, Pennsylvania (Teltron and Aydin); Cape Canaveral, Florida (Display Systems); and Lexington, Kentucky (Lexel). This portion of the Company’s operations involves the design, engineer and manufacture of complete monochrome and color monitor and projector display units using new CRTs or flat panel displays. The Company will customize these units for specific applications, including ruggedization for military uses or size reduction due to space limitations in industrial and medical applications. Because of the Company’s flexible and cost efficient manufacturing, it is able to handle low volume orders that generate higher margins. In its efforts to solidify its position in the display industry, while reducing its dependence on CRT replacement markets, the Company has developed this high end display during the past five years from a zero revenue base to represent approximately 59.5% of fiscal 2006 consolidated net revenues. This portion of the Company’s operations targets niche markets where competition from major multinational electronics companies tends not to be a significant factor. The prime customers for this product include defense, security, training and simulation areas of the U.S. and foreign militaries as well as the major defense contractors such as the Boeing Co., L-3 Communications, Lockheed Martin and others. These defense contractors utilize the Company’s products for ruggedized mission critical applications such as shipboard and nuclear submarines. Flight simulator displays are also produced to provide a full range of flight training simulations for military applications. The Company’s acquisition of the ESCP® CRT line of calligraphic projectors from Evans & Sutherland, Inc. in the third quarter of fiscal 2005 allowed the Company to expand into the commercial flight training simulation market. The primary components for the ruggedized product line consist of projection systems, CRT and flat panel displays, circuit boards and machine parts. Although most monitors are customized to meet a customer’s specifications, all monitors sold include the following general components: CRT or flat panel displays, circuit boards, and machine parts. Most of the Company’s monitors are then ruggedized, which allows them to better withstand adverse conditions, such as extreme temperature, depth, altitude and vibration. Cathode Ray Tubes (“CRTs”) Since its organization in 1975, Video Display Corporation has been engaged in the distribution and manufacture of CRTs using new and recycled CRT glass bulbs, primarily in the replacement market, for use in data display screens, including computer terminal monitors, medical monitoring equipment and various other data display applications and in television sets. The Company currently markets CRTs in over 3,000 types and sizes. The Company’s CRT manufacturing operations of new and recycled CRTs are conducted at facilities located in White Mills, Pennsylvania (Chroma); Bossier City, Louisiana (Novatron); Lexington, Kentucky (Lexel); and Birdsboro, Pennsylvania (Teltron). With the Company’s closure of the Mexico manufacturing facility in fiscal 2003, the Tucker, Georgia location now acts as the Company’s sole distribution point of data display CRTs purchased from outside sources. The Lye, U.K. location is a sales and distribution facility for the Tucker, GA products. 3 The Company maintains the capability of manufacturing a full range of monochrome CRTs as well as remanufacturing color CRTs from recycled glass. Also, our Teltron and Lexel operations manufacture a wide range of radar, infrared, camera and direct-view storage tubes for military and security applications. All CRTs manufactured by the Company are tested for quality in accordance with standards approved by United Laboratories. The Company also distributes new CRTs and other electronic tubes purchased from original manufacturers, both domestic and international. The Company forecasts its inventory requirements for six months to one year. Occasionally, manufacturers offer large quantities of overstocked original manufactured tubes at significant price reductions. The Company acquires these tubes when the existing replacement market appears to demonstrate adequate future demand and the purchase price allows a reasonable profit for the risk. Due to the extended time frame for the replacement market to develop (five to seven years), these purchased inventories sometimes do not sell as quickly as other inventories. Bulk CRT purchases have declined over the past few years as the Company is managing current inventory levels against the anticipated reduction in future CRT demand due to the growth of flat panel technology. The Company maintains an internal sales organization to sell directly to OEMs and their service organizations and markets its products through approximately 150 independent wholesale electronics distributors located throughout the U.S. The Company also supplies, under private-brand labeling, many of the replacement tubes marketed by several national brand name television manufacturers. In addition to factors affecting the overall market for such products, the Company’s sales volume in the CRT replacement markets is dependent upon the Company’s ability to provide prompt response to customers’ orders, while maintaining quality control and competitive pricing. The Company’s manufacturing activities are scheduled primarily around orders received. Electron Guns and Components The Company, through its Tucker, GA based electron gun manufacturing subsidiary, Southwest Vacuum, manufactures electron gun assemblies comprised of small metal, glass and ceramic parts. The assembly process is highly labor intensive. While the particular electron guns being sold are of the Company’s own design, most are replacements for electron guns previously designed for original equipment CRTs used in television sets and computer monitors. Raw materials consist of glass and metal stamped parts. Although Southwest Vacuum markets its products to independent customers, the majority of electron guns produced by the Company are consumed internally among the Company’s own CRT manufacturing facilities. Sales to these related divisions, which have been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements, amounted to approximately $221,000, $297,000 and $835,000 for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The remaining operation in the component division, Wintron, located in Howard, Pennsylvania, produces flyback transformers, coils and power transformers. Intercompany sales transactions were $48,000, $287,000 and $105,000 for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Flat Panel and Other Technology The Company anticipates that AMLCD and Plasma Display products, due to their lower space and power requirements, will eventually become the display of choice in many display applications. The significance of this continuing trend has had an effect on the Display divisions of the Company. In anticipation of long-term trends toward flat panel display usage, the Company has focused its efforts as well as its acquisition strategy toward flat panel technologies for niche market applications in the medical, simulation, training and military markets. Other types of technology, including high-definition television 4 (“HDTV”), have not had a significant impact on the Company’s business. HDTV utilizes both CRT and flat panel technology and, therefore, has potential positive effects on the Company due to anticipated higher margin CRT replacements. There may be long-term negative effects should the HDTV market move toward greater flat panel utilization, but HDTV is expected to have a positive impact on the Company’s CRT business in the near term, although there can be no assurance that this will be the case. The Company will continue to monitor these trends and make adjustments to its CRT inventory levels and operating facilities to reflect changes in demand. Electronic Parts Fox International distributes consumer electronic parts of most major consumer electronics manufacturers, both foreign and domestic. This subsidiary resells these products to major electronic distributors, retail electronic repair facilities, third-party contractual repair shops, and directly to consumers. In its relationship with consumer electronic manufacturers, Fox International receives the right, often exclusively, to ship parts to authorized dealers. Many of the manufacturers also direct inquiries for replacement parts to Fox International. Manufacturers require a distributor to stock their most popular parts and monitor the order fill ratio to ensure that their customers have access to sufficient replacement parts. Fox International attempts to maintain high fill ratios in order to secure favored distributor status from the manufacturers, requiring a significant investment in inventories. Fox International added a call center that was fully operational in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, and was relocated and significantly enlarged during fiscal 2006. This call center is a consumer and dealer support center for both in-warranty and out-of-warranty household products, appliances, parts and electronics for Black & Decker, Delonghi, Norelco, Coby, and numerous other manufacturers. This call center also performs as a technical support center for the same manufacturers and processes all orders for distribution of the consumer electronic parts. Patents and Trademarks The Company is currently in the process of applying for patents on newly developed products and technology and holds patents with respect to certain products and services. The Company also sells products under various trademarks and tradenames. Additionally, the Company licenses certain electronic technology to other manufacturing companies, which generated royalty revenues of approximately $104,000, $92,000 and $114,000 in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company believes that its patents and trademarks owned are of value, and intends to protect its rights when, in its view, these rights are infringed upon. The Company’s key patents expire in 2014. The Company had several patents that had no significant value that were allowed to expire in 2004. The Company believes that success in its industry primarily will be dependent upon incorporating emerging technology into new product line introductions, frequent product enhancements, and customer support and service. Seasonal Variations in Business Historically, there has not been seasonal variability in the Company’s Display segment. Working Capital Practices The Company has a $27.5 million line of credit with Bank of America, and a $3.5 million secondary line of credit with Bank of America for Fox International. These lines are used primarily for the purchases of inventory and payments of accounts payable. See related comments under the caption “Management’s Discussion of Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Subsequent Event” in Part II, Item 7. in this Annual Report of Form 10-K. 5 Concentration of Customers The Company sells to a variety of domestic and international customers on an open-unsecured account basis. These customers principally operate in the medical, military, television and avionics industries. The Company’s Display segment had direct and indirect net sales to the U.S. government, primarily the Department of Defense for training and simulation programs that comprised approximately 41%, 37% and 21% of Display segment net sales and 32%, 29% and 16% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Sales to foreign customers were 14%, 11% and 14% of consolidated net sales for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company’s wholesale electronic parts distributor, Fox International, had net sales to one customer, National Parts, Inc., that comprised approximately 25%, 24% and 19% of that subsidiary’s net sales in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company attempts to minimize credit risk by reviewing customers’ credit history before extending credit, and by monitoring customers’ credit exposure on a daily basis. The Company establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable based upon factors surrounding the credit risk of specific customers, historical trends and other information. Backlog The Company’s backlog is comprised of undelivered, firm customer orders, which are scheduled to ship within eighteen months. The Company’s backlog was approximately $21.7 million at February 28, 2006 and $29.9 million at February 28, 2005. The Company’s Lexel division comprised $7.8 million or 36% and $9.3 million or 31% of the 2006 and 2005 backlog, respectively. It is anticipated that more than 95% of the February 28, 2006 backlog will ship during fiscal 2006. Government Contracts The Company, primarily through its Aydin, Teltron, Lexel and Display Systems subsidiaries, had contracts with the U.S. government (principally the Department of Defense and Department of Defense subcontractors) which generated revenues of approximately $26.9 million, $23.8 million and $17.0 million for the fiscal years ended 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company’s costs and earnings in excess of billings on these contracts were approximately $1.0 million at February 28, 2006 and $0.7 million at February 28, 2005. The Company had billings in excess of costs and earnings on these contracts of approximately $1.0 million at February 28, 2006 and $0.5 million at February 28, 2005. These contracts are typically less than twelve months in duration and specify a delivery schedule for units ordered. Most of these government contracts specify a designated number of units to be delivered at a specified price, rather than on a cost plus basis. These contracts are subject to government audit to ensure conformity with design specifications. Environmental Matters The Company’s operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, emission, transportation and discharge of materials into the environment. The costs of complying with environmental protection laws and regulations have not had a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations in the past and are not expected to have a material adverse impact in the foreseeable future. Research and Development The objectives of the Company’s research and development activities are to increase efficiency and quality in its manufacturing and assembly operations and to enhance its existing product line by developing alternative product applications to existing cathode ray and electron optic technology. The Company continues its research and development in advanced infrared imaging (“IR”) for commercial and military 6 applications. The Company has funded additional IR research in partnership with the University of Rhode Island. The Company believes that potential future markets for IR include military and security surveillance, target acquisition, fire fighting, and industrial and medical thermography. The Company includes research and development expenditures in the consolidated financial statements as a part of general and administrative costs. Research and development costs were approximately $1.3 million, $0.7 million and $0.2 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Employees As of February 28, 2006, the Company employed a total of 462 persons on a full time basis. Of these, 125 were employed in executive, administrative, and clerical positions, 122 were employed in sales and distribution, and 215 were employed in manufacturing operations. A union represents 2 employees at the Wintron location in Howard, Pennsylvania. The Company believes its employee relations to be satisfactory. Competition Although the Company believes that it is the largest domestic recycler and distributor of recycled television CRTs in the United States CRT replacement market, it competes with other CRT manufacturers, as well as OEMs, many of which have greater financial resources than the Company. The Company believes it is the only company that offers complete service in replacement markets with its manufacturing and recycling capabilities. As a wholesale distributor of original equipment CRTs purchased from other manufacturers, the Company also competes with numerous other distributors, and the manufacturers’ own distribution centers, many of which are larger and have substantially greater financial resources than the Company. The Company’s ability to compete effectively in this market is dependent upon its continued ability to respond promptly to customer orders and to offer competitive pricing. The Company expects that competition may increase, especially in the computer and other display replacement markets, should domestic and foreign competitors expand their presence in the domestic replacement markets. Compared to domestic manufacturing prices on new CRTs, the Company’s prices are competitive due to lower manufacturing costs associated with recycling the glass portion of previously used tubes, which the Company obtains at a fraction of the cost of new glass. The Company has to date been able to maintain competitive pricing with respect to imported CRTs because, generally, the CRT replacement market is characterized by customers requiring a variety of types of CRTs in quantities not large enough to absorb the additional transportation costs incurred by foreign CRT manufacturers. The Company believes it has a competitive advantage and is a sole source in providing many of its CRTs to the customer base of its Teltron and Lexel subsidiaries as these operations have been providing reliable products and services to these customers for more than 30 years. Lexel manufactures a broad range of CRT and direct view storage tube (“DVST”) solutions used in military, industrial and commercial applications, including Avionics, Projection, Medical and general purpose displays. Teltron offers a wide range of high performance imaging devices and high resolution CRTs for medical, X-ray, infrared, military and aerospace applications. The Company believes that it has a competitive advantage in the monitor industry due to its ability to handle lower volume orders and its ability to provide internally produced component parts. As a result, the Company can offer more customization in the design and engineering of new products. With the operations of Lexel and Display Systems, the Company has become one of the leading suppliers within the specialty display markets, especially in the military and medical imaging industries. 7 The Company utilizes flat panel displays in many of its monitor units. These flat panels are purchased from OEMs. The revenue generated in fiscal 2006 from products utilizing flat panel technology was $13.1 million as compared to $8.9 million in Fiscal 2005. Being in the replacement market, the Company has the opportunity to see trends in OEM sales, and while the growth in flat panel products is outpacing growth in CRT products, on a percentage basis, the CRT market remains more dominant. Because of this, the Company considers the replacement CRT market to be a viable market for its products. As trends continue to define themselves, and replacement of these products occur in five to seven years, the Company foresees a bigger impact and utilization of flat panel products in its business. There is competition in the area of flat panel technology and the Company will strive to rely on its ability to adapt and incorporate designs into its future products so that it may compete in a profitable nature. Currently, the flat panel market is made up of many competitors of various sizes, none holding a dominant position in the flat panel marketplace. The Company’s competition in the consumer electronics parts segment comes primarily from other parts distributors. Many of these distributors are smaller than Fox International but a few are of equal or greater revenue size. Prices for major manufacturers’ products can be directly affected by the manufacturers’ suggested resale price. The Company believes that its service to customers and warehousing and shipping network give it a competitive advantage. Fox International sells a wide variety of electronic parts and accessories, including semiconductors, resistors, audio/video parts and batteries. In addition, Fox International operates a call center that serves as both a consumer and dealer support center for household products, parts and accessories, as well as serving as a technical support center for these products. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Forward looking statements and risk factors All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this report, including, without limitation, those statements contained in Item 1., are statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words “expect”, “estimate”, “anticipate”, “predict”, “believe” and similar expressions and variations thereof are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements appear in a number of places in this report and include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of the Company, its directors or its officers with respect to, among other things: (i) trends affecting the Company’s financial condition or results of operations; (ii) the Company’s financing plans; (iii) the Company’s business and growth strategies, including potential acquisitions; and (iv) other plans and objectives for future operations. Investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties and that actual results may differ materially from those predicted in the forward-looking statements or which may be anticipated from historical results or trends. Our Company operates in technology based markets that involve a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The following discussion highlights some risks and uncertainties that investors should consider, in conjunction with all other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company may also impair the Company’s business and operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations could be materially affected. 8 Our industry is highly competitive and competitive conditions may adversely affect our business. Our success depends on our ability to compete in markets that are highly competitive, with rapid technological advances and products that require constant improvement in both price and performance. In most of our markets we are experiencing increased competition, and we expect this trend to continue. This environment may result in changes in relationships with customers or vendors, the ability to develop new relationships or the business failure of customers or vendors, which may negatively impact our business. If our competitors are more successful than we are in developing new technology and products, our business may be adversely affected. Competitive pressures may increase or change through industry consolidation, entry of new competitors, marketing changes or otherwise. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to compete effectively with existing or potential competitors. Competitors or third parties may infringe our intellectual property. The Company holds patents with respect to certain products and services. The Company also sells products under various trademarks and tradenames. Should competitors or third parties infringe these rights, costly legal processes may be required to defend our intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our business. Migration to flat panel and other technology may negatively impact our CRT business. The Company acquires CRT tubes when the replacement market appears to demonstrate adequate future demand and the purchase price allows a reasonable profit for the risk. Due to the extended time frame for the replacement market to develop (five to seven years), these purchased inventories may not sell as quickly as other inventories. If the Company is unable to manage CRT inventory levels in coordination with reduced future CRT demand due to the growth of flat panel technology, the marketability of inventory on hand may be affected and the Company may incur significant costs in the disposal of excess inventory. The Company anticipates that flat panel and other technology products, due to their lower space and power requirements, will eventually become the display of choice in many display applications. In anticipation of long-term trends toward flat panel display usage, the Company has focused its efforts and its acquisition strategy toward flat panel technologies. If the Company is unable to successfully replace any future declines in CRT sales with products based on other technologies, our business may be adversely affected. Future acquisitions may not provide benefits to the Company. The Company’s growth strategy includes expansion through acquisitions. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully complete further acquisitions or that past or future acquisitions will not have an adverse impact on the Company’s operations. Changes in government priorities may impact military spending, and our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if their purchases decline. We currently derive a significant portion of our net sales (41% in fiscal 2006) from direct and indirect sales to the U.S. government. If we are unable to replace expiring contracts, which are typically less then twelve months in duration, with contacts for new business, our sales could decline and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect that direct and indirect sales to the U.S. government will continue to account for a substantial portion of our sales in the 9 foreseeable future. We have no assurance that these government-related sales will continue to reach or exceed historical levels in future periods. If we are unable to retain certain key personnel and hire new highly skilled personnel, we may not be able to execute our business plan. Our future success depends on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior managers. The loss of services of any of these individuals, or our inability to attract and retain qualified individuals for key management positions, could negatively impact our business. Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately. We depend upon our information technology systems in the conduct of our operations and financial reporting. If our major information systems fail to perform as anticipated, we could experience difficulties in maintaining normal business operations. Such systems related problems could adversely affect product development, sales and profitability. Changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our results of operations. New accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. Future changes to accounting rules or regulations or the questioning of current accounting practices, may adversely affect our results of operations. The Company’s stock price may be negatively affected by a variety of factors. In addition to any impact the Company’s operating performance, potential future Company sales of common stock, the Company’s dividend policies or possible anti-takeover measures available to the Company may have, changes in securities markets caused by general foreign or domestic economic, consumer or business trends, the impact of interest rate policies by the federal reserve board, and other factors outside the Company’s control may negatively affect our stock price. Changes to estimates related to long term assets, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates, may cause us to incur impairment charges. We make certain estimates and projections in connection with impairment analyses for goodwill and other long term assets in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statements No. 142 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” and No. 144 “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.” These calculations require us to make a number of estimates and projections of long term future results. If these estimates or projections change or prove incorrect, we may be required to record impairment charges. If these impairment charges are significant, our results of operations would be adversely affected. International factors could negatively affect our business. A significant portion of our net sales (14% in fiscal 2006) are made to foreign customers. We are subject to the risks inherent in conducting our business across national boundaries, many of which are outside of our control. These risks include the following: · Economic downturns; · Currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations; 10 · Changes in governmental policy, including, among others, those relating to taxation; · International military, political, diplomatic and terrorist incidents; · Government instability; · Nationalization of foreign assets; and · Tariffs and governmental trade policies. We cannot ensure that one or more of these factors will not negatively affect our international customers and, as a result, our business and financial performance. The cost and management resources required to implement Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act may adversely affect our results of operations; failure to implement controls timely may adversely affect our stock price. Management of the Company has identified that as a small public company, we may not have a sufficient number of personnel with clearly delineated and fully documented responsibilities, and with the appropriate level of accounting expertise, under guidelines established by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”). In addition, certain of the Company’s information systems which support the Company’s financial reporting may not meet current recommended standards. The SOX guidelines, as implemented based on rules promulgated by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), may require the Company to implement significant changes to internal control procedures and incur substantial implementation costs. These costs may have a significant impact on our future results of operations. If the Company is not able to make changes necessary to meet these rules and guidelines in a timely manner, investors could lose confidence in the Company’s financial reporting, which may negatively affect our stock price. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect the future operation of our business. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including: · making it more difficult for us to make payments on the debt, as our business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operating activities to meet our debt service obligations; · increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; · requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operating activities to be dedicated to the payment of our outstanding lines of credit and long-term debt, and as a result reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations and capital expenditures, capitalize on future business opportunities and expand our business and execute our strategy; · exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as much of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; · causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements and other general corporate purposes; and · limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and to react to competitive pressure and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may have lower debt leverage. 11 Our debt agreements contain covenants that limit our flexibility in operating our business. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions, and which may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Among other things, these covenants limit our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness; · make certain investments, loans or advances; · transfer and sell certain assets; · create or permit liens on assets; · consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; · engage in any business activity substantially different from our current businesses; · make substantial changes in present executive management; and · cause, permit or suffer a change greater than 25% in direct or indirect capital ownership by the Company’s chief executive officer. A breach of any of these covenants could result in default under our debt agreements, which could prompt the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding under the debt agreements to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If the lenders under the debt agreements accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets and funds to repay the borrowings under our debt agreements. See related comments under the caption “Management’s Discussion of Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Subsequent Event” in Part II, Item 7. in this Annual Report of Form 10-K. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 12 