Item 1A Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Description of Principal Business The Company generates revenues from the manufacturing and distribution of displays and display components. The Company operates primarily in two divisions: Monitors and Display CRTs. Consolidated Net Sales by division for fiscal 2013 are comprised of the following: Monitors (95.3%) Data Display CRTs (4.4%) All Other (0.3%) A more detailed discussion of sales by category of product is included under the section entitled “Principal Products by Division.” The Company’s manufacturing and distribution facilities are located in Georgia, Florida, Pennsylvania, New York, and Kentucky, in addition to several sales and service agents located worldwide. The Company continues to explore opportunities to expand its product offerings in the display industry. The Company anticipates that this expansion will be achieved by adding new products or by acquiring existing companies that would enhance the Company’s position in the display industry. Management continually evaluates product trends externally in the industry and internally in the divisions in which the Company operates. Overall trends are discussed herein under “Flat Panel and Other Technology.” During the last three years, the Company expended significant research and development funds (approximately $0.9 million in fiscal 2013) in high-resolution projection displays, active matrix liquid crystal display (“AMLCD”) technologies, and infrared imaging (“IR”) for commercial and military applications. Segment Information We operate and manage our business as one segment. The Monitor and Data Display divisions have similarities such as the types of products and markets served. Therefore, we believe they meet the criteria for aggregation under the applicable authoritative guidance and, as such, are reported as one segment within the Consolidated Financial Statements. Principal Products by Division Monitors The Company’s monitor operations are conducted in Phelps, New York (Z-Axis); Birdsboro, Pennsylvania (Aydin); Cape Canaveral, Florida (Display Systems); Palm Bay, Florida (Aydin CyberSecurity) Lexington, Kentucky (Lexel) and Tucker, Georgia (Aydin Visual Solutions). This portion of the Company’s operations, which contributed approximately 91% of fiscal 2013 consolidated net sales, involves the design, engineering, and manufacture of complete monochrome, color monitor, and projector display units using new CRTs or flat panel displays. The Company will customize these units for specific applications, including ruggedization for military uses or size reduction due to space limitations in industrial and medical applications. Because of the Company’s flexible and cost efficient manufacturing, it is able to handle low volume orders that generate higher margins. 2 Table of Contents This portion of the Company’s operations targets niche markets where competition from major multinational electronics companies tends to be lower. The prime customers for these products include defense, security, training, and simulation areas of the United States of America and foreign militaries as well as the major defense contractors such as the Boeing Company, L-3 Communications Corporation, Lockheed Martin Corporation, and others. These defense contractors utilize the Company’s products for ruggedized mission critical applications such as shipboard and nuclear submarines. Flight simulator displays are also produced to provide a full range of flight training simulations for military applications. The primary components for the ruggedized product line consist of projection systems, CRT and flat panel displays, circuit boards and machine parts. Although most monitors are customized to meet a customer’s specifications, all monitors sold include the following general components: CRT or flat panel displays, circuit boards, and machine parts. Most of the Company’s monitors are then ruggedized, which allows them to withstand adverse conditions, such as extreme temperature, depth, altitude, and vibration. The Company anticipates that AMLCD and plasma display products, due to their lower space and power requirements, will eventually become the display of choice in many display applications. The significance of this continuing trend has had an effect on the Company. In anticipation of long-term trends toward flat panel display usage, the Company has focused its efforts, as well as its acquisition strategy, toward flat panel technologies for niche market applications in the medical, simulation, training and military markets. However, there remains a market for CRTs in many industrial applications and the CRT business remains a large portion (approximately 25%) of the Company’s revenues. Data Display CRTs Since its organization in 1975, the Company has been engaged in the distribution and manufacture of CRTs using new and recycled CRT glass bulbs, primarily in the replacement market, for use in data display screens, including computer terminal monitors, medical monitoring equipment and various other data display applications and in television sets. The Company’s CRT manufacturing operation of new and recycled CRTs is conducted at a facility located in Lexington, Kentucky (Lexel). The Company’s Tucker, Georgia location is the Company’s primary distribution point for data display CRTs purchased from outside sources. The Company maintains the capability of manufacturing a full range of monochrome CRTs as well as remanufacturing color CRTs from recycled glass. In addition, our Lexel operations manufactures a wide range of radar, infrared, camera and direct-view storage tubes for military and security applications. All CRTs manufactured by the Company are tested for quality in accordance with standards approved by Underwriters Laboratories. The Company also distributes new CRTs and other electronic tubes purchased from original manufacturers. The Company sells CRTs into the replacement market which sometimes takes five to seven years to develop; these purchased inventories sometimes do not sell as quickly as other inventories. Bulk CRT purchases have declined over the past few years as the Company is managing current inventory levels against the anticipated reduction in future CRT demand due to the growth of flat panel technology. The Company maintains an internal sales organization to sell directly to OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) and their service organizations and markets its products through approximately 75 independent wholesale electronics distributors located throughout the U.S. In addition to factors affecting the overall market for such products, the Company’s sales volume in the CRT replacement markets is dependent upon the Company’s ability to provide prompt response to customers’ orders, while maintaining quality control and competitive pricing. The Company’s CRT manufacturing activities are scheduled primarily based upon current and projected future customer needs. 3 Table of Contents Other The Company, through its Tucker, Georgia based electron gun manufacturing subsidiary, Southwest Vacuum Devices, Inc., manufactured electron gun assemblies comprised of small metal, glass and ceramic parts. The assembly process is highly labor intensive. While the particular electron guns being sold are of the Company’s own design, most are replacements for electron guns previously designed for original equipment CRTs used in television sets and computer monitors. Raw materials consist of glass and metal stamped parts. The Company closed the operations of Southwest Vacuum Devices, Inc. on February 28, 2013 and moved the remaining business to its CRT operations plant, Lexel Imaging in Lexington, Ky. Although Southwest Vacuum marketed its products to independent customers, the majority of electron guns produced by the Company are consumed internally among the Company’s own CRT manufacturing facilities. Sales to these related divisions, which have been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements, amounted to approximately $275,000 and $168,000 for fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. Patents and Trademarks The Company is currently in the process of applying for patents on newly developed products and technology and holds patents with respect to certain products and services. The Company also sells products under various trademarks and trade names. Additionally, the Company licenses certain electronic technology to other manufacturing companies, which generated royalty revenues of approximately $200,000 and $109,000 in fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. The Company believes that its patents and trademarks are of value and intends to protect its rights when, in its view, these rights are infringed upon. The Company’s key patents expire in 2014. The Company believes that success in its industry primarily will be dependent upon incorporating emerging technology into new product line introductions, frequent product enhancements, and customer support and service. Seasonal Variations in Business Historically, there has not been seasonal variability in the Company’s business. Working Capital Practices On December 23, 2010, the Company and its subsidiaries executed a Credit Agreement with RBC Bank and Community & Southern Bank (collectively, the “Banks”) to provide financing to the Company to replace the prior credit agreement with RBC Bank that terminated in conjunction with this Agreement. The current Agreement initially provided for a line of credit of up to $17.5 million and two term loans of $3.5 million and $3.0 million. On March 5, 2012 PNC Bank replaced RBC Bank in our agreement having acquired the U.S. operations of RBC Bank. • 1st Amendment: On May 26, 2011, the Banks amended the Credit Agreement to reduce the revolver commitment to $15.0 million, restate the covenants to pertain to only continuing operations of the Company and to adjust the targets for the senior funded debt to EBITDA covenant for the Company’s quarters ending May 31, 2011 and August 31, 2011. • 2nd Amendment: On July 26, 2011, the Banks again amended the Credit Agreement to include a swing-line promissory note of $1.0 million that is included in the revised $15.0 million revolver commitment. • 3rd Amendment: On September 1, 2011, the Banks amended the Credit Agreement to allow the Company to repurchase a limited amount of the Company’s common stock, equal to ten percent of the Company’s net earnings after taxes, subject to meeting certain share repurchase conditions and revised the definition of the fixed charge coverage ratio and total liabilities to tangible net worth to exclude such repurchases. • 4th Amendment: On January 17, 2012, the Banks amended the Credit Agreement to allow the Company to purchase a promissory note, dated July 23, 2010, held by Hetra Secure Solutions Corporation on StingRay56. • 5th Amendment: On March 5, 2012, the Banks amended the Credit Agreement to allow the Company to acquire StingRay56, Inc. The outstanding balance of the line of credit at February 28, 2013 was $9.9 million and the balances of the term loans were $2.0 million and $2.6 million, respectively. These loans are secured by all assets and personal property of the Company and a limited guarantee of the Chief Executive Officer of $3.0 million. The $3.0 million term loan is secured by real estate property of the Company and a building owned by Southeastern Metro Savings, LLC, a company in which the Company’s Chief Executive Officer is a minority officer. The building will continue to be in the collateral pool until such time as the note is sufficiently paid down or it is replaced by other collateral. 4 Table of Contents The agreement contains three covenants, as amended: a fixed charge coverage ratio, ratio of senior funded debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), and total liabilities to tangible net worth. The agreement also includes restrictions on the incurrence of additional debt or liens, investments (including Company stock, as amended), divestitures and certain other changes in the business. The Agreement expires on December 1, 2013. The interest rate on these loans is a floating LIBOR rate based on a fixed charge coverage ratio, minimum 4.0%, as defined in the loan documents. As of February 28, 2013, the Company was not in compliance with the fixed charge coverage ratio, the senior funded debt to EBITDA ratio (which the Company believes is the most restrictive covenant) and permitted share repurchases covenants as defined by the Banks credit line agreements. The breach of these covenants resulted in a default under our debt agreement and a current classification of the loans earlier in this fiscal year. This default could prompt the lender to declare all amounts outstanding under the debt agreement to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit; however, the Banks have given no current indication of any intention of calling the loans. If the debts were called and the Company was unable to repay those amounts, the lender could proceed against the collateral granted to secure that indebtedness. If the lender under the debt agreement accelerates the repayment of the borrowings, there can be no assurance that the Company will have sufficient assets and funds to repay the borrowings under its debt agreements. Additionally, due to the activity generated by the chairman’s remarks at the 2012 annual shareholder meeting concerning any potential mergers, spinoffs, sale of the Company as a whole or any other method (see 8-K); the Company put negotiations on hold with the current syndication of banks. As the current syndication of banks has given no indication of calling the loans, management believes the most appropriate plan of action is to continue to operate the Company, while exploring those options mentioned by the chairman above, and to continue to make timely and current payments under the debt agreements. Management has forecast this plan and believes that in the absence of the current syndication calling the loans, it can operate in this manner. The Company believes conditions are improving throughout all the divisions and has seen significant activity in new quotes and business won. Management, while operating as noted above, is exploring opportunities for potential mergers, spinoffs, sale of the Company as a whole or other methods. In the absence of obtaining new funding and/or any potential mergers, spinoffs, sale of the Company as a whole or any other method, management believes continuing and newly generated business as well as CEO’s commitment to infuse additional capital, if needed, will sustain the Company going forward. As the debt is maturing on December 1, 2013 and classified a current, the need for refinancing exists. Therefore, the Company has resumed talks with other banks about refinancing the current debt under an agreement with less restrictive covenants and borrowing base calculations. Management believes that a new debt agreement can be obtained by the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2014; however, there can be no assurance that an agreement can be reached that is reasonable to the Company or at all. Concentration of Customers The Company sells to a variety of domestic and international customers on an open-unsecured account basis. These customers principally operate in the medical, military, industrial and avionics industries. The Company had direct and indirect net sales to the U.S. government, primarily the Department of Defense for training and simulation programs that comprised approximately 37% and 42% of consolidated net sales for fiscal 2013 and 2012. Sales to foreign customers were 9% of consolidated net sales for both fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. The Company had one customer that comprised 14.8% (Lockheed Martin) of the Company’s net sales in fiscal 2013. The Company attempts to minimize credit risk by reviewing customers’ credit history before extending credit, and by monitoring customers’ credit exposure on a daily basis. The Company establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable based upon factors surrounding the credit risk of specific customers, historical trends and other information. Backlog The Company’s backlog is comprised of undelivered, firm customer orders, which are scheduled to ship within eighteen months. The Company’s backlog was approximately $14.3 million at February 28, 2013 and $24.0 million at February 29, 2012. It is anticipated that more than 85% of the February 28, 2013 backlog will ship during fiscal 2014. Government Contracts The Company, primarily through its Aydin, Lexel, and Display Systems subsidiaries, had contracts with the U.S. government (principally the Department of Defense and Department of Defense subcontractors) which generated net sales of approximately $18.4 million and $26.9 million for fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. The Company’s costs and earnings in excess of billings on these contracts were approximately $2.4 million at February 28, 2013 and $3.2 million at February 29, 2012. The Company had billings in excess of costs and earnings on these contracts of $0.2 million at February 28, 2013 and $0.3 million at February 29, 2012. These contracts are typically less than twelve months in duration and specify a delivery schedule for units ordered. Most of these government contracts specify a designated number of units to be delivered at a specified price, rather than on a cost plus basis. These contracts are subject to government audit to ensure conformity with design specifications. 5 Table of Contents Environmental Matters The Company’s operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, emission, transportation, and discharge of materials into the environment. The costs of complying with environmental protection laws and regulations have not had a material adverse impact on the Company’s consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flow in the past and are not expected to have a material adverse impact in the foreseeable future. Research and Development The objectives of the Company’s research and development activities are to increase efficiency and quality in its manufacturing and assembly operations and to enhance its existing product line by developing alternative product applications to existing display systems and electron optic technology. The Company includes research and development expenditures in the consolidated financial statements as a part of general and administrative costs. Research and development costs were approximately $0.9 million and $0.9 million in fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. Employees As of February 28, 2013, the Company employed 285 persons on a full-time basis. Of these, 83 were employed in executive, administrative, and clerical positions, 17 were employed in sales and distribution, and 185 were employed in manufacturing operations. The Company believes its employee relations to be satisfactory. Competition The Company believes that it has a competitive advantage in the display industry due to its ability to engineer custom display solutions for a variety of industrial and military applications, its ability to provide internally produced component parts, and its manufacturing flexibility. As a result, the Company can offer more customization in the design and engineering of new products. With the operations of Aydin Displays, Lexel Imaging and Display Systems, the Company believes it has become one of the leading suppliers within the specialty display markets. The Company utilizes flat panel displays in many of its monitor units. These flat panels are purchased from OEMs. The consolidated net sales generated in fiscal 2013 from products utilizing flat panel technology were $15.5 million as compared to $22.9 million in fiscal 2012. Historically, a significant portion of the Company’s revenues is generated from the replacement CRT market. Although the CRT market remains a quite viable market, the growth in flat panel products is outpacing growth in CRT products. As trends continue to become more defined, and replacement of these products occurs in five to seven years, the Company foresees a bigger impact and utilization of flat panel products in its business. There is competition in the area of flat panel technology and the Company will strive to rely on its ability to adapt and incorporate designs into its future products so that it may compete in a profitable manner. Currently, the flat panel market is made up of many competitors of various sizes, none holding a dominant position in the flat panel marketplace. The Company now operates in several markets in the areas of custom electronic circuitry. The Company’s Z-Axis subsidiary specializes in custom power supply and circuit board solutions, the Company’s Aydin Display Systems subsidiary specializes in custom flat panel displays for the government and industrial markets, the Company’s VDC Display Systems division specializes in projector design and video solutions and the Company’s Aydin CyberSecurity division specializes in making electronic devices cyber secure. The Company became the North American distributor for the German company, Eyevis GmbH, focusing on configurable visual solutions for command and control and other large format visuals in the energy, utility, transportation, industrial and security markets. The Company believes it has a competitive advantage and is the sole source in providing many of its CRTs to the customer base of its Data Displays and Lexel subsidiaries as these operations have been providing reliable products and services to these customers for more than 30 years. Lexel manufactures a broad range of CRT and direct view storage tube (“DVST”) solutions used in military, industrial, and commercial applications, including avionics, projection, medical and general-purpose displays. Data Displays offers a wide range of high performance imaging devices and high resolution displays for medical, business applications, military, and fight simulation. 6 Table of Contents The Company is a wholesale distributor of original equipment CRTs purchased from other manufacturers and produces its own CRTs at its Lexel manufacturing facility. The Company believes it is the only company that offers complete service in replacement markets with its manufacturing and recycling capabilities. The Company’s ability to compete effectively in this market is dependent upon its continued ability to respond promptly to customer orders and to offer competitive pricing. Item 1A. Risk Factors. Forward looking statements and risk factors All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this report, including, without limitation, those statements contained in Item 1, are statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words “expect”, “estimate”, “anticipate”, “predict”, “believe” and similar expressions and variations thereof are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements appear in a number of places in this report and include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of the Company, its directors or its officers with respect to, among other things: (i) trends affecting the Company’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations; (ii) the Company’s financing plans; (iii) the Company’s business and growth strategies, including potential acquisitions; and (iv) other plans and objectives for future operations. Investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from those predicted in the forward-looking statements or which may be anticipated from historical results or trends. Our Company operates in technology-based markets that involve a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The following discussion highlights some risks and uncertainties that investors should consider, in conjunction with all other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company may impair the Company’s business and operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s business, consolidated financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations could be materially affected. Our inability to refinance our debt could negatively affect the future of our business. • Our inability to refinance with our current bank or others, if necessary, could expose us to the risk of the bank exercising its rights against the collateral under the terms of the loan; and • Our inability to refinance with a commercial bank could expose us to the risk of increased interest rates. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect the future operation of our business. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to make payments on the debt, as our business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operating activities to meet our debt service obligations; • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operating activities to be dedicated to the payment of our outstanding lines of credit and long-term debt, and as a result reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations and capital expenditures, capitalize on future business opportunities and expand our business and execute our strategy; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates since much of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; • causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; 7 Table of Contents • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements and other general corporate purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and to react to competitive pressure and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may have lower debt leverage. Our debt agreements contain covenants that limit our flexibility in operating our business. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions, and which may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Among other things, these covenants limit our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • make certain investments, loans or advances; • transfer and sell certain assets; • create or permit liens on assets; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • engage in any business activity substantially different from our current businesses; • pay dividends; • purchase treasury shares; and • cause, permit, or suffer a change in capital ownership. The Company was not in compliance with the fixed charge cover ratio, the senior funded debt to EBITDA ratio (which the Company believes is the most restrictive covenant) and permitted share repurchases covenants as defined by the Banks credit line agreements. This default could prompt the lender to declare all amounts outstanding under the debt agreements to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lender could proceed against the collateral granted to secure that indebtedness. If the lender under the debt agreements accelerates the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure the shareholders that we will have sufficient assets and funds to repay the borrowings under our debt agreements. See related comments under the caption “Management’s Discussion of Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Part II, Item 7 in this Annual Report of Form 10-K. Changes in government priorities may affect military spending, and our consolidated financial condition and results of operations could suffer if their purchases decline. We currently derive a significant portion of our net sales (37% in fiscal 2013) from direct and indirect sales to the U.S. government. If we are unable to replace expiring contracts, which are typically less than twelve months in duration, with contracts for new business, our sales could decline, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. We expect that direct and indirect sales to the U.S. government will continue to account for a substantial portion of our sales in the foreseeable future. We have no assurance that these government-related sales will continue to reach or exceed historical levels in future periods. Migration to flat panel and other technology may negatively affect our CRT business. The Company acquires CRT inventory when the replacement market appears to demonstrate adequate future demand and the purchase price allows a reasonable profit for the risk. Due to the extended time frame for the replacement market to develop (five to seven years), these purchased inventories may not sell as quickly as other inventories. If the Company is unable to manage CRT inventory levels in coordination with reduced future CRT demand due to the growth of flat panel technology, the marketability of inventory on hand may be affected and the Company may incur significant costs in the disposal of excess inventory. 8 Table of Contents The Company anticipates that flat panel and other technology products, due to their lower space and power requirements, will eventually become the display of choice in many display applications. In anticipation of long-term trends toward flat panel display usage, the Company has focused its efforts and its acquisition strategy toward flat panel technologies. If the Company is unable to replace any future declines in CRT sales with products based on other technologies, our business may be adversely affected. Our industry is highly competitive and competitive conditions may adversely affect our business. Our success depends on our ability to compete in markets that are highly competitive, with rapid technological advances and products that require constant improvement in both price and performance. In most of our markets, we are experiencing increased competition, and we expect this trend to continue. This environment may result in changes in relationships with customers or vendors, the ability to develop new relationships, or the business failure of customers or vendors, which may negatively affect our business. If our competitors are more successful than we are in developing new technology and products, our business may be adversely affected. Competitive pressures may increase or change through industry consolidation, entry of new competitors, marketing changes or otherwise. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to compete effectively with existing or potential competitors. Competitors or third parties may infringe on our intellectual property. The Company holds patents with respect to certain products and services. The Company also sells products under various trademarks and trade names. Should competitors or third parties infringe on these rights, costly legal processes may be required to defend our intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our business. Future acquisitions may not provide benefits to the Company. The Company’s growth strategy includes expansion through acquisitions. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to complete further acquisitions or that past or future acquisitions will not have an adverse impact on the Company’s consolidated operations. If we are unable to retain certain key personnel and hire new, highly-skilled personnel, we may not be able to execute our business plan. Our future success depends on the skills, experience, and efforts of our senior managers. The loss of services of any of these individuals, or our inability to attract and retain qualified individuals for key management positions, could negatively affect our business. Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately. We depend upon our information technology systems in the conduct of our operations and financial reporting. If our major information systems fail to perform as anticipated, we could experience difficulties in maintaining normal business operations. Such systems-related problems could adversely affect product development, sales, and profitability. Changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our results of operations. New accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. Future changes to accounting rules or regulations or the questioning of current accounting practices may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s stock price may be negatively affected by a variety of factors. In addition to any impact the Company’s operating performance, potential future Company sales of common stock, the Company’s dividend policies or possible anti-takeover measures available to the Company may have, changes in securities markets caused by general foreign or domestic economic, consumer or business trends, the impact of interest rate policies by the federal reserve board, and other factors outside the Company’s control may negatively affect our stock price. 9 Table of Contents Changes to estimates related to long-term assets, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates, may cause us to incur impairment charges. If the Company determines it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying value, then it applies the processes prescribed in FASB ASC Topic 350 “Intangible Assets” and FASB ASC Topic 360 “Property, Plant, and Equipment.” We make certain estimates and projections in connection with our impairment analyses for goodwill and other long-term assets. If these estimates or projections change or prove incorrect, we may be required to record impairment charges. If these impairment charges were significant, our consolidated financial position or results of operations would be adversely affected. International factors could negatively affect our business. A significant portion of our consolidated net sales (9% in fiscal 2013) is made to foreign customers. We also receive a significant amount of our raw materials from foreign vendors. We are subject to the risks inherent in conducting our business across national boundaries, many of which are outside of our control. These risks include the following: • Economic downturns; • Currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations; • Changes in governmental policy, including, among others, those relating to taxation; • International military, political, diplomatic and terrorist incidents; • Government instability; • Nationalization of foreign assets; • Natural disasters; and • Tariffs and governmental trade policies. We cannot ensure that one or more of these factors will not negatively affect our international customers and, as a result, our business and consolidated financial performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 