Item 1A. Risk Factors. Forward looking statements and risk factors All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this report, including, without limitation, those statements contained in Item 1, are statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words “expect”, “estimate”, “anticipate”, “predict”, “believe” and similar expressions and variations thereof are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements appear in a number of places in this report and include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of the Company, its directors or its officers with respect to, among other things: (i) trends affecting the Company’s financial condition or results of operations; (ii) the Company’s financing plans; (iii) the Company’s business and growth strategies, including potential acquisitions; and (iv) other plans and objectives for future operations. Investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from those predicted in the forward-looking statements or which may be anticipated from historical results or trends. Our Company operates in technology based markets that involve a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The following discussion highlights some risks and uncertainties that investors should consider, in conjunction with all other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company may also impair the Company’s business and operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations could be materially affected. Our industry is highly competitive and competitive conditions may adversely affect our business. Our success depends on our ability to compete in markets that are highly competitive, with rapid technological advances and products that require constant improvement in both price and performance. In most of our markets, we are experiencing increased competition, and we expect this trend to continue. This environment may result in changes in relationships with customers or vendors, the ability to develop new relationships, or the business failure of customers or vendors, which may negatively affect our business. If our competitors are more successful than we are in developing new technology and products, our business may be adversely affected. Competitive pressures may increase or change through industry consolidation, entry of new competitors, marketing changes or otherwise. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to compete effectively with existing or potential competitors. Competitors or third parties may infringe on our intellectual property. The Company holds patents with respect to certain products and services. The Company also sells products under various trademarks and trade names. Should competitors or third parties infringe on these rights, costly legal processes may be required to defend our intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our business. 8 Table of Contents Migration to flat panel and other technology may negatively affect our CRT business. The Company acquires CRT inventory when the replacement market appears to demonstrate adequate future demand and the purchase price allows a reasonable profit for the risk. Due to the extended time frame for the replacement market to develop (five to seven years), these purchased inventories may not sell as quickly as other inventories. If the Company is unable to manage CRT inventory levels in coordination with reduced future CRT demand due to the growth of flat panel technology, the marketability of inventory on hand may be affected and the Company may incur significant costs in the disposal of excess inventory. The Company anticipates that flat panel and other technology products, due to their lower space and power requirements, will eventually become the display of choice in many display applications. In anticipation of long-term trends toward flat panel display usage, the Company has focused its efforts and its acquisition strategy toward flat panel technologies. If the Company is unable to successfully replace any future declines in CRT sales with products based on other technologies, our business may be adversely affected. Future acquisitions may not provide benefits to the Company. The Company’s growth strategy includes expansion through acquisitions. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully complete further acquisitions or that past or future acquisitions will not have an adverse impact on the Company’s operations. Changes in government priorities may affect military spending, and our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if their purchases decline. We currently derive a significant portion of our net sales (40% in fiscal 2009) from direct and indirect sales to the U.S. government. If we are unable to replace expiring contracts, which are typically less then twelve months in duration, with contracts for new business, our sales could decline, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect that direct and indirect sales to the U.S. government will continue to account for a substantial portion of our sales in the foreseeable future. We have no assurance that these government-related sales will continue to reach or exceed historical levels in future periods. If we are unable to retain certain key personnel and hire new highly skilled personnel, we may not be able to execute our business plan. Our future success depends on the skills, experience, and efforts of our senior managers. The loss of services of any of these individuals, or our inability to attract and retain qualified individuals for key management positions, could negatively affect our business. Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately. We depend upon our information technology systems in the conduct of our operations and financial reporting. If our major information systems fail to perform as anticipated, we could experience difficulties in maintaining normal business operations. Such systems related problems could adversely affect product development, sales, and profitability. Changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents New accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. Future changes to accounting rules or regulations or the questioning of current accounting practices, may adversely affect our results of operations. The Company’s stock price may be negatively affected by a variety of factors. In addition to any impact the Company’s operating performance, potential future Company sales of common stock, the Company’s dividend policies or possible anti-takeover measures available to the Company may have, changes in securities markets caused by general foreign or domestic economic, consumer or business trends, the impact of interest rate policies by the federal reserve board, and other factors outside the Company’s control may negatively affect our stock price. Changes to estimates related to long term assets, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates, may cause us to incur impairment charges. We make certain estimates and projections in connection with impairment analyses for goodwill and other long term assets in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statements No. 142 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” and No. 144 “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.” These calculations require us to make a number of estimates and projections of long term future results. If these estimates or projections change or prove incorrect, we may be required to record impairment charges. If these impairment charges were significant, our results of operations would be adversely affected. International factors could negatively affect our business. A significant portion of our net sales (13% in fiscal 2009) is made to foreign customers. We are subject to the risks inherent in conducting our business across national boundaries, many of which are outside of our control. These risks include the following: • Economic downturns; • Currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations; • Changes in governmental policy, including, among others, those relating to taxation; • International military, political, diplomatic and terrorist incidents; • Government instability; • Nationalization of foreign assets; and • Tariffs and governmental trade policies. We cannot ensure that one or more of these factors will not negatively affect our international customers and, as a result, our business and financial performance. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect the future operation of our business. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to make payments on the debt, as our business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operating activities to meet our debt service obligations; 10 Table of Contents • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operating activities to be dedicated to the payment of our outstanding lines of credit and long-term debt, and as a result reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations and capital expenditures, capitalize on future business opportunities and expand our business and execute our strategy; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates since much of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; • causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements and other general corporate purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and to react to competitive pressure and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may have lower debt leverage. Our debt agreements contain covenants that limit our flexibility in operating our business. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions, and which may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Among other things, these covenants limit our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • make certain investments, loans or advances; • transfer and sell certain assets; • create or permit liens on assets; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • engage in any business activity substantially different from our current businesses; • pay dividends; and • cause, permit or suffer a change in capital ownership. A breach of any of these covenants could result in default under our debt agreements, which could prompt the lender to declare all amounts outstanding under the debt agreements to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lender could proceed against the collateral granted to secure that indebtedness. If the lender under the debt agreements accelerates the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets and funds to repay the borrowings under our debt agreements. See related comments under the caption “Management’s Discussion of Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Part II, Item 7 in this Annual Report of Form 10-K. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 11 Table of Contents 