Item 1A. Risk Factors. Forward looking statements and risk factors All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this report, including, without limitation, those statements contained in Item 1, are statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words “expect”, “estimate”, “anticipate”, “predict”, “believe” and similar expressions and variations thereof are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements appear in a number of places in this report and include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of the Company, its directors or its officers with respect to, among other things: (i) trends affecting the Company’s consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows; (ii) the Company’s financing plans; (iii) the Company’s business and growth strategies, including potential acquisitions; and (iv) other plans and objectives for future operations. Investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from those predicted in the forward-looking statements or which may be anticipated from historical results or trends. Our Company operates in technology-based markets that involve a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The following discussion highlights some risks and uncertainties that investors should consider, in conjunction with all other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company may impair the Company’s business and operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s business, consolidated financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations could be materially affected. 5 Table of Contents Changes in government priorities may affect military spending, and our consolidated financial condition and results of operations or cash flows could suffer if their purchases decline. We currently derive a portion of our net sales (41% in fiscal 2015) from direct and indirect sales to the U.S. government. If we are unable to replace expiring contracts, which are typically less than twelve months in duration, with contracts for new business, our sales could decline, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. We expect that direct and indirect sales to the U.S. government will continue to account for a substantial portion of our sales in the foreseeable future. We have no assurance that these government-related sales will continue to reach or exceed historical levels in future periods. Our industry is highly competitive and competitive conditions may adversely affect our business. Our success depends on our ability to compete in markets that are highly competitive, with rapid technological advances and products that require constant improvement in both price and performance. In most of our markets, we are experiencing increased competition, and we expect this trend to continue. This environment may result in changes in relationships with customers or vendors, the ability to develop new relationships, or the business failure of customers or vendors, which may negatively affect our business. If our competitors are more successful than we are in developing new technology and products, our business may be adversely affected. Competitive pressures may increase or change through industry consolidation, entry of new competitors, marketing changes or otherwise. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to compete effectively with existing or potential competitors. Competitors or third parties may infringe on our intellectual property. The Company holds patents with respect to certain products and services. The Company also sells products under various trademarks and trade names. Should competitors or third parties infringe on these rights, costly legal processes may be required to defend our intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our business. Migration to flat panel and other technology may negatively affect our CRT business. The Company acquires CRT inventory when the replacement market appears to demonstrate adequate future demand and the purchase price allows a reasonable profit for the risk. Due to the extended time frame for the replacement market to develop (five to seven years), these purchased inventories may not sell as quickly as other inventories. If the Company is unable to manage CRT inventory levels in coordination with reduced future CRT demand due to the growth of flat panel technology, the marketability of inventory on hand may be affected and the Company may incur significant costs in the disposal of excess inventory. The Company anticipates that flat panel and other technology products, due to their lower space and power requirements, will eventually become the display of choice in many display applications. In anticipation of long-term trends toward flat panel display usage, the Company has focused its efforts and its acquisition strategy toward flat panel technologies. If the Company is unable to replace any future declines in CRT sales with products based on other technologies, our business may be adversely affected. Future acquisitions may not provide benefits to the Company. The Company’s growth strategy includes expansion through acquisitions that enhance the profitability and shareholder value of the Company. The Company continues to seek new products through acquisitions and internal development that complement existing profitable product lines. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to complete further acquisitions or that past or future acquisitions will not have an adverse impact on the Company’s consolidated operations. Our inability to secure financing could negatively affect the future of our business. • Our inability to secure financing with our current bank or others, if necessary, could expose us to the risk of losing business; and • Our inability to secure financing with a commercial bank could expose us to the risk of increased interest rates. No open lines of credit could adversely affect the future operation of our business. No open lines of credit could have important consequences, including: • generating insufficient cash flows from operating activities to meet our payment obligations; • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; 6 Table of Contents • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow for operating activities and as a result reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund capital expenditures, capitalize on future business opportunities and expand our business and execute our strategy; • causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and to react to competitive pressure and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may have access to a line of credit. If we are unable to retain certain key personnel and hire new, highly-skilled personnel, we may not be able to execute our business plan. Our future success depends on the skills, experience, and efforts of our senior managers. The loss of services of any of these individuals, or our inability to attract and retain qualified individuals for key management positions, could negatively affect our business. Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately. We depend upon our information technology systems in the conduct of our operations and financial reporting. If our major information systems fail to perform as anticipated, we could experience difficulties in maintaining normal business operations. Such systems-related problems could adversely affect product development, sales, and profitability. Changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our results of operations. New accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. Future changes to accounting rules or regulations or the questioning of current accounting practices may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s stock price may be negatively affected by a variety of factors. In addition to any impact the Company’s operating performance, potential future Company sales or repurchases of common stock, the Company’s dividend policies or possible anti-takeover measures available to the Company may have, changes in securities markets caused by general foreign or domestic economic, consumer or business trends, the impact of interest rate policies by the federal reserve board, and other factors outside the Company’s control may negatively affect our stock price. Our stock may be traded infrequently and in low volumes, so you may be unable to sell your shares at or near the quoted bid price if you need to sell your shares. Our stock is now quoted on the OTC Markets and the shares of our common stock may trade infrequently and in low volumes, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common shares at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. An investor may find it difficult to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock or to sell his or her shares at or near bid prices if at all. Changes to estimates, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates, may cause us to incur impairment charges. If the Company determines it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying value, then it applies the processes prescribed in FASB ASC Topic 350 “Intangible Assets” and FASB ASC Topic 360 “Property, Plant, and Equipment.” We make certain estimates and projections in connection with our impairment analyses for intangible assets and other long-term assets. If these estimates or projections change or prove incorrect, we may be required to record impairment charges. If these impairment charges were significant, our consolidated financial position or results of operations would be adversely affected. International factors could negatively affect our business. A significant portion of our consolidated net sales (15% in fiscal 2015) is made to foreign customers. We also receive a significant amount of our raw materials from foreign vendors. We are subject to the risks inherent in conducting our business across national boundaries, many of which are outside of our control. These risks include the following: • Economic downturns; • Currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations; 7 Table of Contents • Changes in governmental policy, including, among others, those relating to taxation; • International military, political, diplomatic and terrorist incidents; • Government instability; • Nationalization of foreign assets; • Natural disasters; and • Tariffs and governmental trade policies. We cannot ensure that one or more of these factors will not negatively affect our international customers and, as a result, our business and consolidated financial performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 