Item 1A. Risk Factors We have a limited operating history and no revenues and are subject to risks inherent in a new business enterprise. As a result, we have not demonstrated to date that we can successfully implement our business plan or that the PID technology will be successful in a commercial application. We have recently acquired PDTI, which had a limited operating history and, accordingly, is subject to substantial risks inherent in the commencement of a new business enterprise. Prior to our acquisition of PDTI in January 2005, we had no material operations. The business of PDTI was originally established in June 2003 to: (1) purchase certain of the assets and assume certain of the liabilities of ProDril Services, Incorporated (“PSI”) and ProDril Services International, Ltd. (“PSIL”), related to the PID technology; (2) purchase certain patents underlying the PID technology from the Curlett Family Limited Partnership, Ltd. (“CFLP”); (3) acquire certain technology licenses related to the PID technology from CCORE Technology and Licensing, Ltd. (“CTL”); (4) continue the funding of initial research and development expenses with respect to the technology acquired; and (5) take steps towards the commercialization of the PID technology. To date, the business has not generated any revenue from its operations. We may not be able to successfully develop, commercialize or market our products, generate revenues, or operate profitably. Additionally, we and our business have a very limited operating history that investors can analyze to aid them in making an informed judgment as to the merits of an investment in us. Any investment in us should be considered a high risk investment because you will be investing in a development stage company with unforeseen costs, expenses, competition, and other problems to which new ventures are often subject. In addition, the technology we acquired is still in the development stage and has not yet been applied in a commercial setting. Currently we have not entered into any contracts or agreements with potential customers. Because we are a development stage company, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses, and difficulties encountered in establishing a new business in a highly competitive industry. We have limited sources of liquidity and may not be able to obtain sufficient funding to realize positive cash flows. We require substantial capital to pursue our operating strategy and execute our business plan. As we have no internal sources of liquidity, we will continue to rely on external sources for liquidity, and for the foreseeable future, our principal source of working capital will be from capital we have raised through private placements of our securities and other external sources. Our current monthly operating overhead is approximately $275,000, excluding research and development costs, and we expect that such amount will increase as we expand our operations. Should we require additional capital, we may not be able to obtain funds from external sources in sufficient amounts to fund our business plan. 6 Even if we are able to demonstrate the commercial application of our products, we may require additional capital in the future to produce our products in sufficient commercial quantities in order for us to realize positive cash flows. Any such additional capital may lead to additional dilution of our shareholders. Additionally, it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital in sufficient quantities or at all. The PID System is a new technology and it may never be accepted in the marketplace. Certain aspects of the PID technology have not been used or deployed in a commercial oil and gas well. Market acceptance of our products will largely depend upon our ability to demonstrate the PID System’s efficiency, cost effectiveness, safety features and ease of use. We may not be able to demonstrate that the PID System can effectively be deployed on a commercial oil and gas well in a safe and cost-effective manner. The use of the PID technology will also depend upon concerted sales efforts by us and our marketing team. The PID System may never be accepted in the market in preference to other competing technologies that currently exist or that may subsequently be developed. If our products are not generally accepted by the marketplace, we may not realize sufficient revenues or cash flow to execute our operations plan and we may be forced to pursue a different strategy or liquidate our company. In order to enter the oilfield services market on a full scale basis, we must successfully complete additional research and development, the cost of which may exceed the amounts we have budgeted in our operations plan. Any such cost overruns could exhaust our available capital and force us to raise additional capital, which capital may not be available or may lead to additional dilution of our shareholders. Our primary products must demonstrate satisfactory performance in the commercial market. Our operations plan calls for further research and development, including the development of different bit sizes and a newer and more efficient injector system. Poor performance of the PID bit or other components of the PID System while conducting commercial trials could further extend the shop and laboratory testing phase, which would delay the full commercialization of the PID System and increase the funds needed to complete our research and development. This would have the effect of slowing our advancement as funds otherwise intended to build new PID Systems and expand our operations may be needed to conduct additional research. Regardless of the success of the initial research and development, we will require additional research and development and capital spending to continuously improve our service capabilities and expand our operations. We presently intend to finance a portion of our expansion through the use of bank or lease financing. As such, our inability to obtain such financing on favorable terms, or at all, could delay or prevent us from fully commercializing our technology. In addition, regardless of the amount of research and development completed by us, our products may never be successful in commercial operations. We are obligated to make certain royalty payments that will limit our profitability. In connection with our acquisition of the PID technology, we agreed to make certain royalty payments to PSI and PSIL. Under our agreement with PSI, we are obligated to pay PSI a royalty on a quarterly basis equal to 18.0% of our earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) derived from the use of the PID technology for such quarter until an aggregate of $67,500,000 has been paid to PSI. Under our agreement with PSIL, we are obligated to pay PSIL a royalty on a quarterly basis equal to 2.0% of our EBITDA derived from the use of the PID technology for such quarter until an aggregate of $7,500,000 has been paid. We have also entered into additional royalty agreements that require us to pay a total of 4.0% of our quarterly gross revenue derived from the use of the PID technology to certain entities from which we acquired the PID technology. These royalty obligations will have the effect of limiting our liquidity and our profitability. We rely on the intellectual property rights we acquired to the PID technology and we may not be able to successfully protect or defend our intellectual property rights. Our competitive position depends to a significant extent on our ability to assert and defend our intellectual property rights in order to restrict other competitors from offering similar services. Our success depends on certain patents and patent applications that we purchased from CFLP, CTL, PSI and PSIL, along with other proprietary intellectual property rights we intend to develop. We rely on a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and trade secret, patent, copyright, and trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of third parties from whom we license intellectual property. The steps we have taken to protect our rights may not be adequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. We also may not be able to detect unauthorized use of and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights as fully or in the same manner as do the laws of the United States. Also, despite the 7 steps taken by us to protect our proprietary rights, others may develop technologies similar or superior to the PID technology or design around the proprietary rights we own. We are also subject to the risk of litigation alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. Any such claims could require us to spend significant sums in litigation, pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property or acquire licenses to the intellectual property which is the subject of the asserted infringement. If we are unable to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, or if claims are successfully brought against us for infringing the intellectual property rights of others, such events could cause us to pay substantial damages, cause us to lose a key competitive advantage, force us to conduct additional research to develop non-infringing technology or cause us to have to pursue a different business strategy. We are currently engaged in litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations. PDTI filed a lawsuit in District Court in Harris County, Texas in November 2004 styled Particle Drilling Technologies, Inc. vs. PSI Distribution Incorporated, Harry B. Curlett, Curlett Family Limited Partnership, Ltd., CCore Technology and Licensing, Ltd., Deep Heat Energy Corporation, and Energeo, LP to recover certain tangible and intangible assets that PDTI believes should have been transferred as part of the Acquisition Agreement among PSI, the Curlett Group (as defined below) and the successor company of PDTI. It was pursuant to this acquisition that PDTI acquired its intellectual property rights to the PID technology. In January 2005, PDTI reached a settlement with one of the defendants, PSI Distribution Incorporated (“PSID”), which is the successor entity to PSI, whereby PDTI agreed to hold PSID harmless with regard to this lawsuit in exchange for PSID’s agreement to re-affirm and ratify the Acquisition Agreement. Further, PDTI obtained in this settlement any rights, claims and causes of action that PSID may have to pursue damages or to recover assets from the other parties named in the lawsuit. On December 6, 2004, PDTI received a response to the above-referenced lawsuit from certain of the defendants, namely Harry B. Curlett, CFLP, CTL and Deep Heat Energy Corporation, which we refer to as the “Curlett Group,” in which the Curlett Group asserted a counterclaim against PDTI claiming, among other things, that PDTI (1) owes Mr. Curlett $40,000 plus default interest at 18% per annum under a promissory note and certain fees incurred in connection with collection under the note; (2) committed a breach of contract in connection with the Acquisition Agreement referenced in the preceding paragraph and the closing of that agreement in January 2004; (3) engaged in economic duress and fraud in the inducement in connection with the negotiation and closing of the Acquisition Agreement; and (4) committed fraud in connection with that transaction. The counterclaim requests damages of, among other things, judgment on the $40,000 principal amount of the promissory note plus accrued default interest and costs of collection, actual damages of not less than $10 million for breach of contract and fraud, exemplary damages of not less than $20 million and a declaratory judgment rescinding the Acquisition Agreement. By filing this lawsuit, we seek to recover the intellectual property related to the PID technology as it applies to non-oil and gas applications. We believe the counterclaim made by the Curlett Group is without merit. We intend to vigorously pursue our claims in this case and shall vigorously defend the alleged counterclaims by the Curlett Group. Discovery in this litigation is ongoing, however, and our position with regard to the merits of the various claims and defenses may change as additional information is adduced through the discovery process. The outcome of all litigation is inherently uncertain; as a result, we do not know at this time whether or not we will recover any of the intellectual property that we seek to recover in our original petition or if any or all of the remedies requested by the Curlett Group in their counter-claim will be awarded. If the monetary damages requested in this counterclaim were granted in a judgment against us, such damages would severely impair our ability to continue as a going concern. Furthermore, if the request for rescission of the Acquisition Agreement that closed in January 2004 is granted as requested by the counterclaim, such a judgment could have the effect of causing us to lose all intellectual property ownership rights to the PID technology. We may face intense competition in our industry from companies with a more established reputation and greater financial resources than us. The oilfield services industry in which we compete is highly competitive, and most of our potential competitors will have greater financial resources than we do. Many of our potential competitors have been in the oilfield drilling business for many years and have well-established business contacts with exploration and production companies. Competitors may enter markets served or proposed to be served by us, and we may not be able to compete successfully against such companies or have adequate funds to compete effectively. 8 Our stockholders may experience substantial dilution as a result of the exercise of outstanding options and warrants to purchase our common stock. In connection with our acquisition of PDTI, we assumed warrants to purchase 228,000 shares of common stock and options issued under PDTI’s 2004 Incentive Stock Plan to purchase 3,205,000 shares of common stock. In connection with the private placement of our common stock in February 2005, we granted the placement agent warrants to purchase 1,500,000 shares of our common stock. Since our acquisition of PDTI, we have issued options to purchase an additional 720,000 shares of our common stock. The common stock issuable upon exercise of these options and warrants represents approximately 19% of our outstanding shares of common stock on a fully-diluted basis. The exercise of these options and warrants would result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and any sales of these shares of common stock, or the perception that these sales might occur, could lower the market price of our common stock. We presently do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock. We currently anticipate that no cash dividends will be paid on our common stock in the foreseeable future. While our dividend policy will be based on the operating results and capital needs of the business, we anticipate that all earnings, if any, will be retained to finance the future expansion of our company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Applicable Item 