Item 1A. Risk Factors We have limited sources of liquidity and may not be able to obtain sufficient funding to realize positive cash flows. The recent deterioration in the credit and capital markets may adversely affect our ability to raise sufficient capital to meet our liquidity needs. We require substantial capital to pursue our operating strategy and execute our business plan. As we have no revenue and therefore limited sources of cash, we will continue to rely on external sources for liquidity, and for the foreseeable future, our principal source of working capital will be from capital we have raised through private placements of our securities and other external sources. In management’s opinion, based on available cash and cash equivalents on hand as of September 30, 2008, we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for the next 12 months. Because we currently do not generate any cash flow, even if we reduce our overhead and research and development costs as compared to previous years, we will still need to raise additional outside capital in order to maintain sufficient liquidity to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for the next 12 months. Our current monthly operating overhead is approximately $350,000, excluding research and development project costs and non-cash expenses such as depreciation, stock-based compensation and other non-cash expenses, and we expect that such amount could increase if we 8 Table of Contents choose to expand our operations. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. The debt and equity capital markets have been exceedingly distressed. These issues, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk and the current weak economic conditions have made, and will likely continue to make it difficult to obtain funding from external sources. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on similar terms and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Given the deterioration in economic conditions and the debt and equity markets, there is a heightened risk that we may not be able to raise sufficient capital or raise capital on acceptable terms to meet our liquidity needs which would ultimately result in our liquidation or bankruptcy. Even if we are able to demonstrate full commercial success with our products, substantial time may pass before we realize revenues and, as a result, we may require additional capital in the future to produce our products in sufficient commercial quantities in order for us to realize positive cash flows. Any such additional capital may lead to additional dilution of our shareholders. Additionally, it may be difficult for us to raise such additional capital in sufficient quantities or at all. Our Board of Directors has formed a Special Committee in order to evaluate potential strategic alternatives that may be available to us, including joint ventures, licensing arrangements or a sale of the company. Our Special Committee may not be able to identify any suitable strategic alternative or any identified strategic alternative or transaction may not be completed or successful. On September 16, 2008, we announced that our Board of Directors formed a Special Committee to evaluate and pursue potential strategic alternatives that may be available to us, including joint ventures with other participants in our industry, technology licensing arrangements, a sale of the company or any other available alternatives. Our Special Committee has retained the services of a financial advisor to assist it in the evaluation process. This process is ongoing and can be lengthy and has inherent costs and risks. We have not determined to pursue any specific strategic alternative at this time, whether we will elect to pursue any such strategic alternative, or what impact any particular strategic alternative will have on our operations or stock price if so pursued. There can be no assurance that our exploration of various strategic alternatives will result in any specific action or transaction. Further, any such strategic alternative may not ultimately be successful or enhance shareholder value. Uncertainties and risks related to our evaluation and pursuit of potential strategic alternatives include: · the distraction of management and potential disruption of operations, which could have an adverse effect on our ongoing operations; · the inability to successfully achieve the benefits of any strategic alternative undertaken by us; · the potential loss of business opportunities as management focuses on the pursuit of various strategic alternatives; and · perceived uncertainties as to our future as a going concern that can result in loss of potential customers and difficulties motivating, recruiting and retaining personnel. Since we announced our formation of a Special Committee, the market price of our stock has been volatile, and such volatility may continue or become more severe if and when any transaction or business arrangement is announced or we announce that we are no longer exploring strategic alternatives. In addition, the recent deterioration in the capital markets and general economic conditions has made it more difficult to obtain financing, which could impair our ability to successfully consummate a strategic transaction. Furthermore, the recent declines in oil and natural gas prices have caused a significant decrease in the demand for oilfield services, including drilling services, which also could impair our ability to complete a strategic transaction. Because of our current lack of liquidity and need for additional capital, our failure to successfully pursue and complete a strategic transaction could result in our liquidation or bankruptcy. 9 Table of Contents We have a limited operating history and no revenues and are subject to risks inherent in a new business enterprise. As a result, we have not demonstrated to date that we can fully implement our business plan or that the PID technology will be profitable in a commercial application. The business of PDTI was originally established in June 2003 to: (1) purchase certain of the assets and assume certain of the liabilities of PSI and PSIL related to the PID technology; (2) purchase certain patents underlying the PID technology from CFLP; (3) acquire certain technology licenses related to the PID technology from CTL; (4) continue the funding of research and development expenses with respect to the technology acquired; and (5) take steps towards the commercialization of the PID technology. To date, the business has not generated revenue from its operations and our company does not have sufficient liquidity to remain as a going concern for the next 12 months. We may not be able to fully commercialize our product or generate profitable revenues. Additionally, we and our business have a limited operating history that investors can analyze to aid them in making an informed judgment as to the merits of an investment in us. Any investment in us should be considered a high risk investment because you will be investing in a company with unforeseen costs, expenses, competition, and other problems to which new ventures are often subject. In addition, the technology we acquired is still in the early stage of development for commercial use and has produced only limited results in a commercial setting. Because we are an early stage company, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses, and difficulties encountered in establishing a new business in a highly competitive industry. If we are able to commercialize the PID technology, we expect that demand for our PID System will depend on oil and natural gas industry activity and expenditure levels that are directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices and other factors. If we are able to commercialize the PID technology, we expect that demand for our PID System will be substantially dependent on the level of exploration, development and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies. Oil and natural gas companies typically reduce exploration and development activity during periods of low or volatile oil and natural gas prices. The markets for oil and natural gas historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be so in the future. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of other factors that are beyond our control. Recently, oil and natural gas prices have experienced a precipitous decline which has led many oil and gas companies to reduce their planned capital expenditures and drilling activity. If this reduction in prices and drilling activity continues over a prolonged period of time, it will result in a decrease in the demand for our PID System and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The recent decline in oil and natural gas prices and the resulting decrease in capital expenditures by exploration and production companies has caused a significant decrease in the demand for oilfield services, including drilling services. Factors affecting the prices of oil and natural gas include: • the level of demand for oil and natural gas; • worldwide political, military and economic conditions, including, but not limited to, the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to set and maintain production levels and prices for oil; • oil and natural gas production/inventory levels; • the policies of governments regarding the exploration for and production and development of their oil and natural gas reserves; • global weather conditions; • interest rates and cost of capital; and • tax laws. The PID System is a new technology and it may not be fully accepted in the marketplace to the degree anticipated by management. The PID technology has only been used or deployed in limited commercial gas wells. To management’s knowledge, no 10 Table of Contents company has yet marketed a salable product using the technology we are developing. Market acceptance of our products will largely depend upon our ability to demonstrate the PID System’s efficiency, cost effectiveness, safety features and ease of use. We may not be able to demonstrate that the PID System can effectively be deployed on a significant number of commercial oil and gas wells in a safe and cost-effective manner. In addition, we may not have sufficient liquidity to complete the development and commercialization of the PID System. The use of the PID technology will also depend upon concerted sales efforts by our management team. The PID System may never be fully accepted in the market in preference to other competing technologies that currently exist or that may subsequently be developed. If our products are not fully accepted by the marketplace, we may not realize sufficient revenues or cash flow to execute our operations plan and we may be forced to pursue a different strategy or liquidate our company. In order to enter the oilfield services market on a full scale basis, we must successfully complete additional research and development, the cost of which may exceed the amounts we have budgeted in our operations plan. Any such cost overruns could exhaust our available capital and force us to raise additional capital, which capital may not be available or may lead to additional dilution of our shareholders. Our primary products must demonstrate satisfactory performance in a significant number of oil and gas wells. Our operations plan calls for further research and development, including the development of different bit sizes and certain minor modifications to our particle injection system. Poor performance of the PID bit or other components of the PID System while conducting commercial trials could reveal additional unidentified issues and further extend the shop and laboratory testing phase, which could further delay the full commercialization of the PID System and increase the funds needed to complete our research and development. Further, in order to fully implement our business plan, we will be required to hire and train a substantial number of new employees. During periods of higher demand for oilfield services, such as ours, the oilfield services industry often operates at near capacity from a human resource perspective, which could limit our ability to hire and train adequate qualified personnel in the future. These circumstances would have the effect of slowing our advancement as funds otherwise intended to build new PID Systems and expand our operations may be needed to conduct additional research or procure and train adequate human resources. Regardless of the success of the initial research and development, we will require additional research and development and capital spending to continuously improve our service capabilities and expand our operations. In addition, regardless of the amount of research and development completed by us, our products may never be fully adopted in a significant number of oil and gas wells. We are obligated to make certain royalty payments that will limit our profitability. In connection with our acquisition of the PID technology, we agreed to make certain royalty payments to PSI and PSIL. Under our agreement with PSI, we are obligated to pay PSI a royalty on a quarterly basis equal to 18.0% of EBITDA derived from the use of the PID technology for such quarter until an aggregate of $67,500,000 has been paid to PSI. Under our agreement with PSIL, we are obligated to pay PSIL a royalty on a quarterly basis equal to 2.0% of our EBITDA derived from the use of the PID technology for such quarter until an aggregate of $7,500,000 has been paid. We have also entered into additional royalty agreements that require us to pay a total of 4.0% of our quarterly gross revenue derived from the use of the PID technology to certain entities from which we acquired the PID technology. If we are able to generate earnings, these royalty obligations will have the effect of limiting our liquidity and our profitability. We rely on the intellectual property rights we acquired to the PID technology and we may not be able to successfully protect or defend our intellectual property rights. Our competitive position depends to a significant extent on our ability to assert and defend our intellectual property rights in order to restrict other competitors from offering similar services. Our success depends on certain patents and patent applications that we purchased from CFLP, CTL, PSI and PSIL, along with other proprietary intellectual property rights we have developed or intend to develop. We rely on a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and trade secret, patent, copyright, and trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of third parties from whom we license intellectual property. The steps we have taken to protect our rights may not be adequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. We also may not be able to detect unauthorized use of and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights as fully or in the same manner as do the laws of the United States. Also, despite the steps taken by us to protect our proprietary rights, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to the PID technology and/or design around the proprietary rights we own. We are also subject to the risk of litigation alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. Any such claims could require us to spend significant sums in litigation, pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property or acquire licenses to the intellectual property which is the subject of the asserted infringement. If we are unable to successfully 11 Table of Contents enforce our intellectual property rights, or if claims are successfully brought against us for infringing the intellectual property rights of others, such events could cause us to pay substantial damages, cause us to lose a key competitive advantage, force us to conduct additional research to develop non-infringing technology or cause us to have to pursue a different business strategy. We may face intense competition in our industry from companies with a more established reputation and greater financial resources than us. The oilfield services industry is highly competitive, and most of our potential competitors have greater financial resources than we do. Many of our potential competitors have been in the oilfield drilling business for many years and have well-established business contacts with exploration and production companies. Competitors may enter markets served or proposed to be served by us, and we may not be able to compete successfully against such companies or have adequate funds to compete effectively. Because our PID System is used in potentially hazardous applications and operations, our business is subject to risks associated with events that result in personal injuries, loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment and suspension of operations. Our PID System is used in potentially hazardous drilling applications. These activities are dangerous and accidents can result in: • personal injury; • loss of life; • damage to or destruction of property, equipment and the environment; and • suspension of operations. Litigation arising from a catastrophic occurrence at a location where our PID System is used may result, in the future, in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting potentially large claims. The frequency and severity of any of these incidents would affect our operating costs, insurability and relationships with customers, employees and regulators. Any increase in the frequency or severity of these incidents, or the general level of compensation awards resulting from these incidents, could affect our ability to obtain projects from oil and natural gas companies or insurance covering these incidents. Compliance with environmental and other government regulations could adversely affect our business. Our business is significantly affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to: • the oil and natural gas industry; and • worker safety and environmental protection. If we are able to successfully commercialize the PID technology, we expect that demand for our PID System will be affected by a variety of factors, including taxes, price controls and the adoption or amendment of laws and regulations. For example, the adoption of laws and regulations curtailing the exploration and development of oil and natural gas in our expected areas of operation for economic, environmental or other policy reasons could adversely affect our operations by limiting demand for our products and services. The technical requirements of the foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our businesses are becoming increasingly complex and stringent. For instance, some environmental laws may provide for “strict liability” for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety, rendering a party liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. Sanctions for noncompliance with these laws and regulations may include: • revocation of permits; • issuance of corrective action orders; 12 Table of Contents • assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties; and • issuance of injunctions restricting or prohibiting our operations. Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. In addition, we may be subject to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as a result of alleged exposure to hazardous substances, as well as damage to natural resources. These laws and regulations also may expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, others, or for our acts that were in compliance with applicable laws at the time the acts were performed. Our stockholders may experience substantial dilution as a result of the exercise of outstanding options and warrants to purchase our common stock or future issuances of additional shares of our common stock, any of which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In connection with our acquisition of our subsidiary, Particle Drilling Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation, we assumed warrants to purchase 74,141 shares of common stock and options issued under PDTI’s 2004 Incentive Stock Plan to purchase 2,760,000 shares of common stock. In connection with the private placement of our common stock in February 2005, we granted the placement agent warrants to purchase 1,500,000 shares of our common stock, of which 205,000 were still outstanding as of September 30, 2008. In connection with the private placement of our common stock in October 2006, we granted the investors warrants to purchase 1,500,000 shares of our common stock at $3.25 per share. Since our acquisition of PDTI, we have issued options to purchase an additional 1,193,584 shares of our common stock under our equity incentive plans. The common stock issuable upon exercise of these options and warrants represents approximately 8% of our outstanding shares of common stock on a fully-diluted basis. The exercise of these options and warrants would result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and any sales of these shares of common stock, or the perception that these sales might occur, could lower the market price of our common stock. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, future public offerings or private placements of our securities for capital raising purposes, or for other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, price volatility. The limited trading volume of our common stock may contribute to this price volatility. The trading price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. We believe this volatility is due to, among other things, our lack of revenues, current expectations of our future financial performance and the volatility of the stock market in general. Moreover, our common stock, which began trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market® on June 28, 2005, does not have substantial trading volume. During the year ended September 30, 2008, the average daily trading volume of our common stock as reported by The NASDAQ Capital Market® was approximately 138,190 shares, which represents less than 1% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, relatively small trades of our common stock may have a significant impact on the price of our common stock and, therefore, may contribute to the price volatility of our common stock. Because of the limited trading volume in our common stock and the price volatility of our common stock, you may be unable to sell your shares of common stock when you desire or at the price you desire. Moreover, the inability to sell your shares in a declining market because of such illiquidity or at a price you desire may substantially increase your risk of loss. We presently do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock. We currently anticipate that no cash dividends will be paid on our common stock in the foreseeable future. While our dividend policy will be based on the operating results and capital needs of the business, we anticipate that all earnings, if any, will be retained to finance the future expansion of our company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Applicable 13 Table of Contents Item 