Item 1A. Risk Factors We have a limited operating history and no revenues and are subject to risks inherent in a new business enterprise. As a result, we have not demonstrated to date that we can fully implement our business plan or that the PID technology will be profitable in a commercial application. The business of PDTI was originally established in June 2003 to: (1) purchase certain of the assets and assume certain of the liabilities of PSI and PSIL, related to the PID technology; (2) purchase certain patents underlying the PID technology from CFLP; (3) acquire certain technology licenses related to the PID technology from CTL; (4) continue the funding of research and development expenses with respect to the technology acquired; and (5) take steps towards the commercialization of the PID technology. To date, the business has not generated revenue from its operations. We may not be able to fully commercialize our product or generate profitable revenues. Additionally, we and our business have a very limited operating history that investors can analyze to aid them in making an informed judgment as to the merits of an investment in us. Any investment in us should be considered a high risk investment because you will be investing in a company with unforeseen costs, expenses, competition, and other problems to which new ventures are often subject. In addition, the technology we acquired is still in the early stage of commercialization and has only limited results in a commercial setting. Because we are an early stage company, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses, and difficulties encountered in establishing a new business in a highly competitive industry. We have limited sources of liquidity and may not be able to obtain sufficient funding to realize positive cash flows. We require substantial capital to pursue our operating strategy and execute our business plan. As we have no revenue and therefore limited sources of cash, we will continue to rely on external sources for liquidity, and for the foreseeable future, our principal source of working capital will be from capital we have raised through private placements of our securities and other external sources. Our current monthly operating overhead is approximately $400,000, excluding research and development project costs and non-cash expenses such as depreciation and stock-based compensation, and we expect that such amount will increase as we expand our operations. Should we require additional capital, we may not be able to obtain funds from external sources in sufficient amounts to fund our business plan. Even if we are able to demonstrate full commercial success with our products, we may require additional capital in the future to produce our products in sufficient commercial quantities in order for us to realize positive cash flows. Any such additional capital may lead to additional dilution of our shareholders. Additionally, it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital in sufficient quantities or at all. The PID System is a new technology and it may not be fully accepted in the marketplace to the degree anticipated by management. The PID technology has only been used or deployed in limited commercial gas wells. Market acceptance of our products will largely depend upon our ability to demonstrate the PID System’s efficiency, cost effectiveness, safety features and ease of use. We may not be able to demonstrate that the PID System can effectively be deployed on a significant number of 9 commercial oil and gas wells in a safe and cost-effective manner. The use of the PID technology will also depend upon concerted sales efforts by our management team. The PID System may never be fully accepted in the market in preference to other competing technologies that currently exist or that may subsequently be developed. If our products are not fully accepted by the marketplace, we may not realize sufficient revenues or cash flow to execute our operations plan and we may be forced to pursue a different strategy or liquidate our company. In order to enter the oilfield services market on a full scale basis, we must successfully complete additional research and development, the cost of which may exceed the amounts we have budgeted in our operations plan. Any such cost overruns could exhaust our available capital and force us to raise additional capital, which capital may not be available or may lead to additional dilution of our shareholders. Our primary products must demonstrate satisfactory performance in a significant number of oil and gas wells. Our operations plan calls for further research and development, including the development of different bit sizes and a newer and more efficient and reliable particle injection system. Poor performance of the PID bit or other components of the PID System while conducting commercial trials could reveal additional unidentified issues and further extend the shop and laboratory testing phase, which could further delay the full commercialization of the PID System and increase the funds needed to complete our research and development. Further, in order to fully implement our business plan we will be required to hire and train a substantial number of new employees. Currently, the oilfield industry is strained and operating at near full capacity from a human resource perspective, which could limit our ability to hire and train adequate qualified personnel. These circumstances would have the effect of slowing our advancement as funds otherwise intended to build new PID Systems and expand our operations may be needed to conduct additional research or procure and train adequate human resources. Regardless of the success of the initial research and development, we will require additional research and development and capital spending to continuously improve our service capabilities and expand our operations. In addition, regardless of the amount of research and development completed by us, our products may never be fully adopted in a significant number of oil and gas wells. We are obligated to make certain royalty payments that will limit our profitability. In connection with our acquisition of the PID technology, we agreed to make certain royalty payments to PSI and PSIL. Under our agreement with PSI, we are obligated to pay PSI a royalty on a quarterly basis equal to 18.0% of our earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) derived from the use of the PID technology for such quarter until an aggregate of $67,500,000 has been paid to PSI. Under our agreement with PSIL, we are obligated to pay PSIL a royalty on a quarterly basis equal to 2.0% of our EBITDA derived from the use of the PID technology for such quarter until an aggregate of $7,500,000 has been paid. We have also entered into additional royalty agreements that require us to pay a total of 4.0% of our quarterly gross revenue derived from the use of the PID technology to certain entities from which we acquired the PID technology. These royalty obligations will have the effect of limiting our liquidity and our profitability. We rely on the intellectual property rights we acquired to the PID technology and we may not be able to successfully protect or defend our intellectual property rights. Our competitive position depends to a significant extent on our ability to assert and defend our intellectual property rights in order to restrict other competitors from offering similar services. Our success depends on certain patents and patent applications that we purchased from CFLP, CTL, PSI and PSIL, along with other proprietary intellectual property rights we have developed or intend to develop. We rely on a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and trade secret, patent, copyright, and trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of third parties from whom we license intellectual property. The steps we have taken to protect our rights may not be adequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. We also may not be able to detect unauthorized use of and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights as fully or in the same manner as do the laws of the United States. Also, despite the steps taken by us to protect our proprietary rights, others may develop technologies similar or superior to the PID technology and/or design around the proprietary rights we own. We are also subject to the risk of litigation alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. Any such claims could require us to spend significant sums in litigation, pay damages, develop non-infringing intellectual property or acquire licenses to the intellectual property which is the subject of the asserted infringement. If we are unable to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, or if claims are successfully brought against us for infringing the intellectual property rights of others, such events could cause us to pay substantial damages, cause us to lose a key competitive advantage, force us to conduct additional research to develop non-infringing technology or cause us to have to pursue a different business 10 strategy. We may face intense competition in our industry from companies with a more established reputation and greater financial resources than us. The oilfield services industry in which we compete is highly competitive, and most of our potential competitors have greater financial resources than we do. Many of our potential competitors have been in the oilfield drilling business for many years and have well-established business contacts with exploration and production companies. Competitors may enter markets served or proposed to be served by us, and we may not be able to compete successfully against such companies or have adequate funds to compete effectively. Our stockholders may experience substantial dilution as a result of the exercise of outstanding options and warrants to purchase our common stock or future issuances of additional shares of our common stock, any of which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In connection with our acquisition of our subsidiary, Particle Drilling Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation, we assumed warrants to purchase 119,141 shares of common stock and options issued under PDTI’s 2004 Incentive Stock Plan to purchase 3,104,000 shares of common stock. In connection with the private placement of our common stock in February 2005, we granted the placement agent warrants to purchase 1,500,000 shares of our common stock, of which 1,140,000 are still outstanding. In connection with the private placement of our common stock in October 2006, we granted the investors warrants to purchase 1,500,000 shares of our common stock. Since our acquisition of PDTI, we have issued options to purchase an additional 1,310,250 shares of our common stock. The common stock issuable upon exercise of these options and warrants represents approximately 24% of our outstanding shares of common stock on a fully-diluted basis. The exercise of these options and warrants would result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and any sales of these shares of common stock, or the perception that these sales might occur, could lower the market price of our common stock. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, future public offerings or private placements of our securities for capital raising purposes, or for other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, price volatility. The limited trading volume of our common stock may contribute to this price volatility. The trading price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. We believe this volatility is due to, among other things, our lack of revenues, current expectations of our future financial performance and the volatility of the stock market in general. Moreover, our common stock, which began trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market® on June 28, 2005, does not have substantial trading volume. During the year ended September 30, 2006, the average daily trading volume of our common stock as reported by The NASDAQ Capital Market® was approximately 122,000 shares, which represents less than 1% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, relatively small trades of our common stock may have a significant impact on the price of our common stock and, therefore, may contribute to the price volatility of our common stock. Because of the limited trading volume in our common stock and the price volatility of our common stock, you may be unable to sell your shares of common stock when you desire or at the price you desire. Moreover, the inability to sell your shares in a declining market because of such illiquidity or at a price you desire may substantially increase your risk of loss. We presently do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock. We currently anticipate that no cash dividends will be paid on our common stock in the foreseeable future. While our dividend policy will be based on the operating results and capital needs of the business, we anticipate that all earnings, if any, will be retained to finance the future expansion of our company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Applicable Item 