ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces significant risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our future success depends on our ability to compete effectively in a highly competitive market and geographic area. Our ability to return to and maintain profitability may depend in part on our ability to expand our scope of available financial services as needed to meet the needs and demands of our customers. Our business model focuses on using superior customer service to provide traditional banking services to a growing customer base. However, we face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. We encounter competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, credit unions and other financial institutions. Our competitors, including credit unions, consumer finance companies, factors, insurance companies and money market mutual funds, compete with lending and deposit-gathering services offered by us. In addition, our competitors now include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and finance and insurance companies who seek to offer one-stop financial services to their customers that may include services that we have not been able or allowed to offer to our customers in the past. This increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. There is very strong competition for financial services in the New York state areas in which we currently conduct our business. This geographic area includes offices of many of the largest financial institutions in the world. Many of those competing institutions have much greater financial and marketing resources than we have. Due to their size, many competitors can achieve larger economies of scale and as a result may offer a broader range of products and services than we do. If we are unable to offer competitive products and services, our earnings may be negatively affected. Some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies like ourselves and on federally insured financial institutions like our banking subsidiary, The Berkshire Bank. As a result, these nonbank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. The banking business in our current primary market area is very competitive, and the level of competition we face may increase further, which may limit our asset growth and profitability. 10 Economic conditions either nationally or locally in areas in which our operations are concentrated may be less favorable than expected. Deterioration in local, regional, national or global economic conditions could result in, among other things, an increase in loan delinquencies, a decrease in property values, a change in housing turnover rate or a reduction in the level of bank deposits. Particularly, a weakening of the real estate or employment market in our primary market areas could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our profitability. Substantially all of our real estate loans are collateralized by properties located in these market areas, and substantially all of our loans are made to borrowers who live in and conduct business in these market areas. Any material economic deterioration in these market areas could have an adverse impact on our profitability. Much of the Bank's lending is in New York City and upstate New York. As a result of this geographic concentration, a significant broad-based deterioration in economic conditions in the New York City metropolitan area and upstate New York could have a material adverse impact on the quality of the Bank's loan portfolio, and accordingly, our results of operations. Such a decline in economic conditions could restrict borrowers' ability outstanding principal and interest on loans when due, and, consequently, adversely affect the cash flows of our business. The Bank's loan portfolio is largely secured by real estate collateral. A substantial portion of the real and personal property securing the loans in the Bank's portfolio is located in New York City and upstate New York. Conditions in real estate markets in which the collateral for the Bank's loans are located strongly influence the level of the Bank's non-performing loans and results of operations. A decline in the New York City metropolitan area and upstate New York real estate markets, as well as other external factors, could adversely affect the Bank's loan portfolio. 11 Recent negative developments in the financial services industry and U.S. and global credit markets may adversely impact our operations and results. Negative developments in the capital markets during the latter half of 2007, throughout 2008 and during 2009 to date have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing for the remainder of 2009 and possibly beyond. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, among other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies like ours have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. Changes in interest rates could reduce our income and cash flows. Our income and cash flow and the value of our assets and liabilities depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the returns on our portfolio of investment securities and the amounts paid on deposits. If the rate of interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases more than the rate of interest we earn on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could be adversely affected. Our earnings could also be adversely affected if the rates on our loans and other investments fall more quickly than those on our deposits and other borrowings. During 2008, interest rates continued to decrease, a situation which has negatively affected and continues to negatively affect the yield we achieve on interest-earning assets. Due to the recent downturn in the market, certain of the marketable securities we own may take longer to auction than initially anticipated, if at all. Our portfolio of investment securities includes auction rate securities. From the first quarter of 2008 to the present, our balance of auction rate securities failed to auction due to sell orders exceeding buy orders. Unless we hold these securities to maturity, these funds will not be available to us until a successful auction occurs or a buyer is found outside the auction process. As a result, approximately $101 million of auction rate securities, at cost, have been written down to approximately $63 million, based on our analysis, as an unrealized temporary decrease in fair value, which is reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss in the stockholders' equity section of our consolidated balance sheet. This is in addition to the other than temporary impairment charge recognized on auction rate securities which have preferred shares of the Federal National Mortgage Association ("Fannie Mae") and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ("Freddie Mac") as the underlying collateral, as described elsewhere in this Report. We estimate the fair value of our auction rate securities using a discounted cash flow model where we used the expected rate of interest to be received. We believe this decrease in fair value is temporary due to general macroeconomic market conditions, and interest is being paid in full as scheduled. Further, we have the ability to hold the securities until maturity, and we have no reason to believe that any of the underlying issuers of these auction rate securities or its third-party insurers are currently at risk of default. In fact, approximately $15 million principal amount of auction rate securities that became due in the first quarter of 2009 were paid. However, if we need to access the funds invested in the auction rate securities we continue to hold, prior to maturity, there are no assurances that a successful auction will occur, or that we can find a buyer outside the auction process. 12 Declines in value may adversely impact the investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $298,763,000 and $360,000 in available for sale and held to maturity investment securities, respectively. We may be required to record impairment charges (or mark-to-market adjustments) on our investment securities if they suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment, could have a negative effect on our investment portfolio in future periods. If an impairment charge is significant enough it could affect the ability of the Bank to upstream dividends to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders and could also negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios and result in the Bank not being classified as "well-capitalized" for regulatory purposes. The auction rate securities which have preferred shares of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as the underlying collateral sustained an impairment charge of $80.15 million, pre-tax, due to the US Treasury and FHFA plan to place Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship and eliminate the dividends on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac common and preferred stock for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurances that further impairment charges will not have to be recognized. We operate in a highly regulated environment; changes in laws and regulations and accounting principles may adversely affect us. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision, and legislation which govern almost all aspects of our operations. These laws may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of customers, depositors, and the deposit insurance funds. The impact of any changes to these laws may negatively impact our ability to expand our services and to increase the value of our business. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution's allowance for loan losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection, civil rights and other laws, including the Gramm-Leach-Blilely Act, the Bank Secrecy Act, the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. These laws also permit private individual and class action lawsuits and provide for the recovery of attorneys fees in certain instances. Any changes to these laws or any applicable accounting principles may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have, these changes could be materially adverse to our investors and stockholders. 13 We are required to maintain an allowance for loan losses. These reserves are based on management's judgment and may have to be adjusted in the future. Any adjustment to the allowance for loan losses, whether due to regulatory changes, economic conditions or other factors, may affect our financial condition and earnings. We maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level believed adequate by management to absorb losses specifically identifiable and inherent in the loan portfolio. In conjunction with an internal loan review function that operates independently of the lending function, management monitors the loan portfolio to identify risks on a timely basis so that an appropriate allowance can be maintained. Based on an evaluation of the loan portfolio, management presents a periodic review of the loan loss reserve to the board of directors of the Bank, indicating any changes in the reserve since the last review and any recommendations as to adjustments in the reserve. In making its evaluation, in addition to the factors discussed below, management considers the results of recent regulatory examinations, which typically include a review of the allowance for loan losses as an integral part of the examination process. In establishing the allowance, management evaluates individual large classified loans and nonaccrual loans, and determines an aggregate reserve for those loans based on that review. An allowance for the remainder of the loan portfolio is also determined based on historical loss experience within the components of the portfolio. These allocations may be modified if current conditions indicate that loan losses may differ from historical experience, based on economic factors and changes in portfolio mix and volume. In addition, a portion of the allowance is established for losses inherent in the loan portfolio which have not been identified by the more quantitative processes described above. This determination inherently involves a higher degree of subjectivity, and considers risk factors that may not have yet manifested themselves in historical loss experience. Those factors include changes in levels and trends of charge-offs, delinquencies, and nonaccrual loans, trends in volume and terms of loans, changes in underwriting standards and practices, portfolio mix, tenure of loan officers and management, entrance into new geographic markets, changes in credit concentrations, and national and local economic trends and conditions. While the allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level believed to be adequate by management for estimated losses in the loan portfolio, determination of the allowance is inherently subjective, as it requires estimates, all of which may be susceptible to significant change. Changes in these estimates may impact the provisions charged to expense in future periods. Federal and state regulatory authorities, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses. We cannot assure you that we will not increase the allowance for loan losses or the regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could negatively impact Berkshire Bancorp's results of operations. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial service industry, including the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (the "FHLBNY"), commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 14 It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us and this could depress our common stock price. Under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we have authorized 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which 60,000 shares have been designed as Series A Preferred Stock, and of which the remaining 1,940,000 shares may be issued by the board of directors with terms, rights, preferences and designations as the board of directors may determine and without any vote of the stockholders, unless otherwise required by law. Issuing the preferred stock, depending upon the rights, preferences and designations set by the board of directors, may delay, deter, or prevent a change in control of the Company. At December 31, 2008, there are 60,000 shares of preferred stock outstanding which have been issued to the Company's majority stockholder and two unaffiliated entities. The preferred stock may be redeemed by the Company between April 30, 2009 and November 1, 2010 at $1,100 per share. In addition, we have authorized 25,000,000 shares of common stock of which approximately 7,000,000 shares are issued and outstanding. The price of our common stock may be volatile at times since our common stock is thinly traded and one individual owns or controls more than 50% of our outstanding shares. It may be difficult for a stockholder to sell a significant number of shares at a time and at a price of their choosing or for a third party to purchase sufficient shares on the open market to cause a change in control of the Company, all of which could depress the price of the Company's common stock. In addition, federal and state banking laws may restrict the ability of the stockholders to approve a merger or business combination or obtain control of the Company. This may tend to make it more difficult for shareholders to replace existing management or may prevent shareholders from receiving a premium for their shares of our common stock. Our common stock is not insured by any governmental agency and, therefore, investment in them involves risk. Our securities are not deposit accounts or other obligation of any bank, and are not insured by the FDIC, or any other governmental agency, and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. Our Series A Preferred Shares impact net income available to our common stockholders and our earnings per share. As long as there are Series A Preferred Shares outstanding, no dividends may be paid on our Common Stock unless all dividends on the Series A Preferred Shares have been paid in full. The dividends declared on our fixed rate Series A Preferred Shares will reduce the net income available to holders of our Common Stock and our earnings per share of Common Stock. The Series A Preferred Shares will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. 15 Moreover, holders of our Common Stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our board of directors. Although until the most recent fiscal semi-annual period, we have historically declared cash dividends on our Common Stock, we are not required to do so and our board of directors may reduce or eliminate our Common Stock dividend in the future and indeed, determined not to declare or pay a semi-annual dividend in April 2009. This could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. The Financial Sector Is Experiencing An Economic Downturn. An Increase In The Number of Non-performing Loans Will Have An Adverse Effect On Our Operations. Virtually all of our real estate loans are secured by real estate in New York. At December 31, 2008, loans secured by real estate, including home equity loans and lines of credit, represented 85.3% of our total loans. Both nationally and in the State of New York, we are experiencing an economic downturn that is having a significant impact on the prices of real estate and related assets. The residential and commercial real estate sectors have been adversely affected by weakening economic conditions and may negatively impact our loan portfolio. While we believe that our total non-performing loans as a percentage of total assets are relatively low by industry standards, if loans that are currently performing become non-performing loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses, which would have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We added approximately $5.0 million to the allowance for loan losses during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. Our FDIC Premium Could Be Substantially Higher In The Future, Which Would Have An Adverse Effect On Our Future Earnings. Our FDIC insurance assessment was $1.08 million for 2008 compared to $86,000 for 2007. During 2007 our assessment was substantially reduced by a $219,000 special One Time Credit, which was fully utilized during 2007. The FDIC has recently raised our insurance assessment as a percentage of insured deposits by 236%, which will likely cause the assessment in actual dollars to be substantially higher in 2009 and in future periods. Any increases in our FDIC premium rates will reduce future earnings. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable ITEM 