ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces significant risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our future success depends on our ability to compete effectively in a highly competitive market and geographic area. Our ability to maintain profitability may depend in part on our ability to expand our scope of available financial services as needed to meet the needs and demands of our customers. Our business model focuses on using superior customer service to provide traditional banking services to a growing customer base. However, we face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. We encounter competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, credit unions and other financial institutions. Our competitors, including credit unions, consumer finance companies, factors, insurance companies and money market mutual funds, compete with lending and deposit-gathering services offered by us. In addition, our competitors now include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and finance and insurance companies who seek to offer one-stop financial services to their customers that may include services that they have not been able or allowed to offer to our customers in the past. This increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. There is very strong competition for financial services in the New York and New Jersey state areas in which we currently conduct our business. This geographic area includes offices of many of the largest financial institutions in the world. Many of those competing institutions have much greater financial and marketing resources than we have. Due to their size, many competitors can achieve larger economies of scale and as a result may offer a broader range of products and services than we do. If we are unable to offer competitive products and services, our earnings may be negatively affected. Some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies like ourselves and on federally insured financial institutions like our banking subsidiary, The Berkshire Bank. As a result, these nonbank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. The banking business in our current primary market area is very competitive, and the level of competition we face may increase further, which may limit our asset growth and profitability. 14 Economic conditions either nationally or locally in areas in which our operations are concentrated may be less favorable than expected. Deterioration in local, regional, national or global economic conditions could result in, among other things, an increase in loan delinquencies, a decrease in property values, a change in housing turnover rate or a reduction in the level of bank deposits. Particularly, a weakening of the real estate or employment market in our primary market areas could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our profitability. Substantially all of our real estate loans are collateralized by properties located in these market areas, and substantially all of our loans are made to borrowers who live in and conduct business in these market areas. Any material economic deterioration in these market areas could have an adverse impact on our profitability. Much of the Bank's lending is in New York City and upstate New York. As a result of this geographic concentration, a significant broad-based deterioration in economic conditions in the New York City metropolitan area and upstate New York could have a material adverse impact on the quality of the Bank's loan portfolio, and accordingly, our results of operations. Such a decline in economic conditions could restrict borrowers' ability to pay outstanding principal and interest on loans when due, and, consequently, adversely affect the cash flows of our business. Negative developments in the financial services industry and U.S. and global credit markets may adversely impact our operations and results. Negative developments in the capital markets during 2008 and 2009 resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets. Although conditions improved somewhat during 2010 and 2011, loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions, including the Bank, resulting from, among other factors, high unemployment and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies like ours have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. New federal laws such as the Dodd-Frank Act, or new state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards may negatively affect our business. Financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. See the Section of this Report entitled "Business - The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010." 15 Changes in interest rates could reduce our income and cash flows. Our income and cash flow and the value of our assets and liabilities depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the returns on our portfolio of investment securities and the amounts paid on deposits. If the rate of interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases more than the rate of interest we earn on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could be adversely affected. In addition, there is a risk that certain deposits would not be renewed. Our earnings could also be adversely affected if the rates on our loans and other investments fall more quickly than those on our deposits and other borrowings. During 2011, interest rates continued at historic lows, a situation which has negatively affected and continues to negatively affect the yield we achieve on interest-earning assets. Due to the recent downturn in the market, certain of the marketable securities we own may take longer to auction than initially anticipated, if at all. Since 2008, our portfolio of investment securities includes auction rate securities which have failed to auction due to sell orders exceeding buy orders. Unless we hold these securities to maturity, these funds will not be available to us until a successful auction occurs or a buyer is found outside the auction process. Declines in value may adversely impact the investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had approximately $415.5 million and $341.9 million in available for sale and held to maturity investment securities, respectively. We may be required to record OTTI charges on our investment securities if they suffer a decline in value that is related to the credit quality of the issue. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment, could have a negative effect on our investment portfolio in future periods. During 2010, we recorded approximately $1.2 million of OTTI charges. While no such OTTI charges were recorded in 2011, there can be no assurances that additional OTTI charges will not be necessary in the future. We operate in a highly regulated environment; changes in laws and regulations and accounting principles may adversely affect us. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision, and legislation which govern almost all aspects of our operations. These laws may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of customers, depositors, and the deposit insurance funds. The impact of any changes to these laws may negatively impact our ability to expand our services and to increase the value of our business. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution's allowance for loan losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection, civil rights and other laws, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Bank Secrecy Act, the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. These laws also permit private individual and class action lawsuits and provide for the recovery of attorneys fees in certain instances. Any changes to these laws or any applicable accounting principles may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. 16 In May 2009, in connection with the Bank's examination by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC") the Bank received a Joint Memorandum of Understanding (the "MOU") from the FDIC and the New York State Department of Financial Services (the "NYSDFS"), formerly called the New York State Banking Department, which the Bank executed. The MOU sets forth an informal understanding among the Bank, the FDIC and the NYSDFS addressing asset quality, loan review, underwriting and administration and certain other concerns identified in the examination. The Bank's board of directors appointed a committee comprised of three directors to monitor the Bank's compliance. Compliance with the MOU has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and we do not believe it will have a material adverse effect in the future. As set forth in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition And Results of Operations - Capital Adequacy" and Note N to the Company's consolidated financial statements, the Bank meets the definition of well capitalized for regulatory purposes as of December 31, 2011. The Dodd-Frank Act may adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. On July 21, 2010 the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law by President Obama. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States, establishes a new federal Bureau, and requires the Bureau and other federal agencies to implement many new and significant rules and regulations. At this time it is difficult to predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act or the resulting rules and regulations will impact our business. Compliance with these new laws and regulations will likely result in additional costs, and may adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. See the Section of this Report entitled "Business - The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010." We are required to maintain an allowance for loan losses. These reserves are based on management's judgment and may have to be adjusted in the future. Any adjustment to the allowance for loan losses, whether due to regulatory changes, economic conditions or other factors, may affect our financial condition and earnings. We maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level believed adequate by management to absorb losses specifically identifiable and inherent in the loan portfolio. Our loan customers may fail to repay their loans according to the terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. Such loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions, estimates and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we rely on a number of factors, including our own experience and our evaluation of economic conditions. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, and adjustments may be necessary that would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 17 We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial service industry, including the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (the "FHLB-NY"), commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. We depend upon our ability to process, record, and monitor our client transactions on a continuous basis. As client, public, and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions, and breakdowns. Our business, financial, accounting and data processing systems, or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. For example, there could be electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber attacks. Although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and clients. Information security risks for financial institutions such as ours have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties. As noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission, and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. Our business relies on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct its operations. In addition, to access our products and services, our clients may use personal smartphones, tablet PC's, personal computers, and other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems. Although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems, networks, and our clients' devices may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our clients' confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our clients' or other third parties' business operations. 18 Third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including financial intermediaries, or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. Although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of the evolving nature of these threats. As a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a focus for us. As threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and clients, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our clients use to access our products and services could result in client attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The Company is authorized to issue "Blank Check" Preferred Stock; It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us and this could depress our common stock price. Under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we have authorized 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock, all of which may be issued by the board of directors with terms, rights, preferences and designations as the board of directors may determine and without any vote of the stockholders, unless otherwise required by law. Issuing the preferred stock, depending upon the rights, preferences and designations set by the board of directors, may adversely affect the rights of holders of common stock. In addition, federal and state banking laws may restrict the ability of the stockholders to approve a merger or business combination or obtain control of the Company. Moreover, one individual owns or controls more than 50% of our outstanding shares. These factors may tend to make it more difficult for stockholders to replace existing management or may prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares of our common stock. 19 Thin Market for our Common Stock and Other Factors Could Depress our Common Stock Price. We have authorized 25,000,000 shares of common stock of which 14,443,183 shares are issued and outstanding at December 31, 2011. The price of our common stock may be volatile at times since our common stock is thinly traded and less than 30% of our outstanding shares are owned by non-affiliates. It may be difficult for a stockholder to sell a significant number of shares at a chosen time and/or price or for a third party to purchase sufficient shares on the open market to cause a change in control of the Company, all of which could depress the price of the Company's common stock. Our stock is not insured by any governmental agency and, therefore, investment in them involves risk. Our securities are not deposit accounts or other obligation of any bank, and are not insured by the FDIC, or any other governmental agency, and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. The Financial Sector Is Experiencing An Economic Downturn. An Increase In The Number of Non-performing Loans Will Have An Adverse Effect On Our Operations. Virtually all of our real estate loans are secured by real estate in New York. At December 31, 2011, loans secured by real estate, including home equity loans and lines of credit, represented 95% of our total loans. Both nationally and in the States of New York and New Jersey, we are experiencing an economic downturn that is having a significant impact on the prices of real estate and related assets. The residential and commercial real estate sectors have been adversely affected by weakening economic conditions and may negatively impact our loan portfolio. While we believe that our total non-performing loans as a percentage of total assets are relatively low by industry standards, if loans that are currently performing become non-performing, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses, which would have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We added approximately $1.6 million and $5.8 million to the allowance for loan losses during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our FDIC Premium Could Be Substantially Higher In The Future, Which Would Have An Adverse Effect On Our Future Earnings. Our FDIC insurance assessment was $1.3 million for 2011 compared to $1.6 million for 2010. See "Insurance of Accounts." ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable 20 