ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces significant risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. 9 We operate in the highly competitive banking industry and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. Our ability to maintain our history of strong financial performance and return on investment to shareholders may depend in part on our ability to expand our scope of available financial services as needed to meet the needs and demands of our customers. Our business model focuses on using superior customer service to provide traditional banking services to a growing customer base. However, we operate in an increasingly competitive environment in which our competitors now include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and finance and insurance companies who seek to offer one-stop financial services to their customers that may include services that we have not been able or allowed to offer to our customers in the past. This increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in this environment without expanding the scope of financial services we provide, or that if we need to expand the scope of services that we provide, that we will be able to do so successfully. Our future success depends on our ability to compete effectively in a highly competitive market and geographic area. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. We encounter competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, credit unions and other financial institutions. Our competitors, including credit unions, consumer finance companies, factors, insurance companies and money market mutual funds, compete with lending and deposit-gathering services offered by us. There is very strong competition for financial services in the New York state areas in which we currently conduct our business. This geographic area includes offices of many of the largest financial institutions in the world. Many of those competing institutions have much greater financial and marketing resources than we have. Due to their size, many competitors can achieve larger economies of scale and as a result may offer a broader range of products and services than we do. If we are unable to offer competitive products and services, our earnings may be negatively affected. Some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies like ourselves and on federally insured financial institutions like our banking subsidiary, The Berkshire Bank. As a result, these nonbank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. The banking business in our current primary market area is very competitive, and the level of competition we face may increase further, which may limit our asset growth and profitability. Economic conditions either nationally or locally in areas in which our operations are concentrated may be less favorable than expected. Deterioration in local, regional, national or global economic conditions could result in, among other things, an increase in loan delinquencies, a decrease in property values, a change in housing turnover rate or a reduction in the level of bank deposits. Particularly, a weakening of the real estate or employment market in our primary market areas could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our profitability. Substantially all of our real estate loans are collateralized by properties located in these market areas, and substantially all of our loans are made to borrowers who live in and conduct business in these market areas. Any material economic deterioration in these market areas could have an adverse impact on our profitability. Changes in interest rates could reduce our income and cash flows. Our income and cash flow and the value of our assets and liabilities depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 10 System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the returns on our portfolio of investment securities and the amounts paid on deposits. If the rate of interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases more than the rate of interest we earn on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could be adversely affected. Our earnings could also be adversely affected if the rates on our loans and other investments fall more quickly than those on our deposits and other borrowings. We operate in a highly regulated environment; changes in laws and regulations and accounting principles may adversely affect us. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision, and legislation which govern almost all aspects of our operations. These laws may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of customers, depositors, and the deposit insurance funds. The impact of any changes to these laws may negatively impact our ability to expand our services and to increase the value of our business. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution's allowance for loan losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection, civil rights and other laws, including the Gramm-Leach-Blilely Act, the Bank Secrecy Act, the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. These laws also permit private individual and class action lawsuits and provide for the recovery of attorneys fees in certain instances. Any changes to these laws or any applicable accounting principles may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have, these changes could be materially adverse to our investors and stockholders. We are required to maintain an allowance for loan losses. These reserves are based on management's judgment and may have to be adjusted in the future. Any adjustment to the allowance for loan losses, whether due to regulatory changes, economic conditions or other factors, may affect our financial condition and earnings. We maintain an allowance for loan losses. The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level believed adequate by management to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio. In conjunction with an internal loan review function that operates independently of the lending function, management monitors the loan portfolio to identify risks on a timely basis so that an appropriate allowance can be maintained. Based on an evaluation of the loan portfolio, management presents a periodic review of the loan loss reserve to the board of directors of the Bank, indicating any changes in the reserve since the last review and any recommendations as to adjustments in the reserve. In making its evaluation, in addition to the factors discussed below, management considers the results of recent regulatory examinations, which typically include a review of the allowance for loan losses as an integral part of the examination process. In establishing the allowance, management evaluates individual large classified loans and nonaccrual loans, and determines an aggregate reserve for those loans based on that review. An allowance for the remainder of the loan portfolio is also determined based on historical loss experience within the components of the portfolio. These allocations may be modified if current conditions indicate that loan losses may differ from historical experience, based on economic factors and changes in portfolio mix and volume. In addition, a portion of the allowance is established for losses inherent in the loan portfolio which have not been identified by the more quantitative processes described above. This determination inherently involves a higher degree of subjectivity, and considers risk factors that may not have yet manifested themselves in historical loss experience. Those factors include changes in levels and trends of charge-offs, delinquencies, and nonaccrual loans, trends in volume and terms of loans, changes in underwriting standards and practices, portfolio mix, tenure of loan officers and management, entrance into new geographic markets, changes in credit concentrations, and national and local economic trends 11 and conditions. While the allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level believed to be adequate by management for estimated losses in the loan portfolio, determination of the allowance is inherently subjective, as it requires estimates, all of which may be susceptible to significant change. Changes in these estimates may impact the provisions charged to expense in future periods. Federal and state regulatory authorities, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses. We cannot assure you that we will not increase the allowance for loan losses or the regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could negatively impact Berkshire Bancorp's results of operations. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us and this could depress our common stock price. Under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we have authorized 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock, which the board of directors may issue with terms, rights, preferences and designations as the board of directors may determine and without any vote of the shareholders, unless otherwise required by law. Issuing the preferred stock, depending upon the rights, preferences and designations set by the board of directors, may delay, deter, or prevent a change in control of the Company. In addition, we have authorized 10,000,000 shares of common stock of which approximately 7.7 million shares have been issued and approximately 6.9 million shares are outstanding. The price of our common stock may be volatile at times since our common stock is thinly traded and one individual owns or controls approximately 50% of our outstanding shares. It may be difficult for a stockholder to sell a significant number of shares at a time and at a price of their choosing or for a third party to purchase sufficient shares on the open market to cause a change in control of the Company, all of which could depress the price of Berkshire Bancorp's common stock. In addition, federal and state banking laws may restrict the ability of the stockholders to approve a merger or business combination or obtain control of the Company. This may tend to make it more difficult for shareholders to replace existing management or may prevent shareholders from receiving a premium for their shares of our common stock. Our common stock is not insured by any governmental agency and, therefore, investment in them involves risk. Our securities are not deposit accounts or other obligation of any bank, and are not insured by the FDIC, or any other governmental agency, and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable 12 