Risk Factors” and other risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this report. In assessing forward-looking statements contained herein, readers are urged to read carefully all cautionary statements contained in this Form 10-K and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. For these forward-looking statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements in Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Company Overview We own and operate The Outdoor Channel®, a national television network devoted to traditional outdoor activities such as hunting, fishing and shooting sports, as well as off-road motor sports and other outdoor related lifestyle programming. Our target audience is comprised of sportsmen and outdoor enthusiasts throughout the U.S. According to a survey by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, in 2001 there were over 82 million outdoor enthusiasts throughout the U.S. who spent in excess of $100 billion in pursuit of their outdoor activities. As of December 2005, we had relationships or agreements with over 5,800 cable and satellite service providers to carry The Outdoor Channel, including the 10 largest in the U.S. Through these arrangements, we believe The Outdoor Channel is available to, and could potentially be subscribed by, over 77.6 million U.S. households. According to estimates by Nielsen, The Outdoor Channel was subscribed to by approximately 25.7 million households in December 2005. The Outdoor Channel was established in 1993 and began broadcasting 24 hours a day in May 1994. Since inception, we have been committed to providing excellent programming and customer service to our distribution partners. In recognition of our efforts, The Outdoor Channel was named Programmer of the Year in 2003 by the National Cable Television Cooperative. We believe The Outdoor Channel provides viewers with a unique destination for authentic, informative and entertaining outdoor programming. As a result, we believe that our viewers tend to be more loyal and spend more time watching The Outdoor Channel than other networks that offer outdoor programming. We also believe that The Outdoor Channel has become a desirable network for advertisers of products and services used by outdoor enthusiasts. We also own and operate two national membership organizations, Gold Prospector’s Association of America, LLC, or GPAA, and LDMA-AU, Inc., or Lost Dutchman’s. The theme of these organizations is the search for gold deposits and treasures while enjoying the outdoors. Initially, we created The Outdoor Channel to market memberships in these organizations by airing programming related to these activities. Through this process, we discovered that members in these organizations were very enthusiastic about their activities which resulted in a strong consumer demand for The Outdoor Channel. We believe by airing programs associated with our membership organizations and other membership, or affinity, organizations, such as the National Rifle Association and the North American Hunting and Fishing Clubs, we enhance consumer demand and consequently provide opportunities to increase the number of subscribers to The Outdoor Channel. 3 2005 Developments During 2005, we undertook strategic initiatives intended to grow The Outdoor Channel’s subscriber base and increase our long-term profitability. First, we purchased a new building and began building out this property for use as our state-of-the-art broadcast facility in the future. We are currently planning on moving our broadcast operations into this facility sometime in March 2006. Second, we launched a second network – Outdoor Channel 2 HDSM that offers programming similar to The Outdoor Channel produced entirely in high definition format. Third, we continued to produce more programming in-house. Fourth, we expanded our advertising sales office in New York. Finally, on July 1, 2005, we completed a public offering of our shares of common stock in which the net proceeds to the Company was approximately $43,350,000. We intend to use the majority of these net proceeds to expand our marketing and sales efforts to increase the number of subscribers to The Outdoor Channel. We expect to use the remainder of the net proceeds to purchase programming from third parties, increase the amount of our internally produced programming and for general corporate purposes. Although we anticipate undertaking these initiatives will increase our costs in the near term, we believe such strategic pursuits will ultimately enhance our performance. Industry Historically, television broadcasters have transmitted signals through the airwaves and households received the signals through antennas at no cost. This method of broadcasting signals had several disadvantages. The signal could not reach many areas due to signal strength, remoteness of many communities and topography. In addition, for those households that could receive the signal, it often produced poor picture and sound quality. Unlike traditional television broadcasters which deliver their programming without charge, cable companies provide subscription television service for a fee. These service providers transmit signals through coaxial cable connected directly to individual homes. In most markets, this service delivers a much improved picture and sound quality and offers an increased number and wider variety of channels as compared to broadcast television. In addition to using cable for connectivity, companies use satellite technology to provide subscription television service directly to households. This industry of providing television service to households for a fee, or on a subscription basis, is typically referred to as “pay television.” The pay television industry is comprised primarily of two segments: service providers and networks. Service Providers. Pay television service providers, also commonly referred to as distributors, are primarily comprised of two types: cable and satellite. These service providers own and operate the platforms they use to deliver television programming to subscribers. Cable and satellite service providers compete against each other for subscribers. These service providers attempt to create a mix of channels, or tiers, that will be attractive to the households in the markets they serve in an effort to attract and retain these households as subscribers. Service providers generate revenue primarily by selling television service to households. They also make many of the programming decisions, including which channels to carry and in which packaged offering, or tier, a channel should be included. Cable Systems. Pay television cable systems consist of two groups: independent cable providers and multi-system cable operators, or MSOs. Independent cable providers are smaller, individual systems that deliver the television signal to households in only one or a limited number of regions. Generally, independent cable service providers operate in distinct markets that range from large metropolitan centers to small rural areas and do not compete directly with each other in their respective markets. In comparison, MSOs are companies that are affiliated with, or control, a number of regional or individual cable systems. Examples of MSOs include Time Warner Cable and Comcast Cable Communications. In many instances, channels need to establish a relationship with an MSO in order to pursue carriage on its affiliated regional cable systems. As of December 2005, cable providers delivered pay television to approximately 71.5 million U.S. households, according to Nielsen estimates. Satellite Systems. Pay television satellite systems deliver television signals to households via orbiting satellites using digital technology. Unlike cable, where the service providers generally do not compete against each other, satellite service providers compete against each other directly because reception from any one satellite service provider is generally available to substantially all viewers wishing to subscribe to it. Examples of satellite service providers include DIRECTV® and DISH Network™. As of December 2005, there were approximately 22.9 million homes receiving pay television using some means other than cable, according to Nielsen. We believe that most of these households subscribe to a satellite service. 4 Networks. Networks, also commonly referred to as television channels, bring together television programs and package them into a branded schedule of entertainment. The two types of networks include broadcast networks, which are available to households through traditional broadcast free of charge, and pay television networks, which are only available to households through cable and satellite service providers. Most networks are owned by MSOs or media conglomerates. In order to secure the content necessary for a cohesive schedule, channels can produce programming internally and acquire third-party programming from production companies. Broadcast networks, which are regulated by the Federal Communications Commission, or the FCC, generate revenue primarily by selling advertising whereas pay television networks generate revenue by both selling advertising included in their programming and through subscription fees paid by service providers for the right to deliver the network to their customers. To gain distribution to households, new networks need to establish carriage agreements with service providers. In order to initiate or improve carriage, many networks, and in particular those networks not affiliated with any major service provider, may need to offer launch incentives, which can include marketing support, upfront cash payments or other forms of incentives. These incentives or payments are typically made on a per-subscriber basis and generally before receiving any subscriber fee revenues. Trends in Pay Television Transition from Analog to Digital in Cable Systems. Cable distribution has been undergoing dramatic changes in the technologies that are used to deliver programming and services including digital transmission technology. Digital transmission enables improved picture and sound quality, faster signal transmission and additional channel capacity. Cable system operators can now offer additional services such as pay-per-view, video-on-demand and connectivity for Internet and telephone service. We believe households that receive a digital signal account for over one-third of the households reached by cable providers. Emergence of High Definition Television. Digital transmission technology, whether used by cable or satellite systems, provides a platform for a new content category: high-definition television, which is commonly referred to as HD TV. HD TV offers a clearer and sharper picture and enhanced sound, as compared to standard definition television. In addition, HD TV provides a wider field of vision than a standard definition television. In order to deliver HD TV, service providers have invested and are expected to continue to invest in HD-enabled infrastructure. The number of U.S. households that are expected to be viewing HD TV is projected to grow to 41.6 million by year-end 2007, according to the Yankee Group. Channel Proliferation. Increased system capacity has enabled service providers to carry channels that offer programming on more focused subject matter and themes. These channels can capture an audience that is interested in a particular subject and chooses to watch dedicated and consistently themed programming. We believe the audience demographics of these specialized channels tend to be more highly concentrated than those of general entertainment or broadcast channels. As a result, such specialized channels offer advertisers an opportunity to communicate with a highly targeted and relevant audience. Based on an analysis of Nielsen data by the Cabletelevision Advertising Bureau, from 1992 through 2003 cable television attracted viewers as viewership of national commercial broadcast networks declined, and during the 2003/04 official TV season, more viewers watched television on cable networks than on broadcast networks ABC, CBS, NBC and FOX. Focused and Segmented Advertising. We believe many advertisers have become increasingly dissatisfied with the results of broadcasting to a broad audience and have become increasingly focused on maximizing the returns generated per advertising dollar. We believe that individual, specialized channels on pay television offer advertisers the opportunity to reach a more focused demographic as compared to broadcast television. To this end, we believe many advertisers have begun dedicating portions of their advertising budgets towards channels focused on targeted market segments. Our Competitive Strengths We believe the following strengths enable us to offer a network that is appealing to viewers, service providers and advertisers. Authentic, Informative and Entertaining Outdoor Programming We believe that The Outdoor Channel is a preferred destination for television viewers seeking high-quality, traditional outdoor programming. We are differentiated from other television networks categorized as sports networks that offer outdoor programming through our focus on traditional outdoor activities such as hunting, fishing and shooting sports, as well as off-road motor sports and other outdoor related lifestyle programming. Our programming does not include team sports or 5 “extreme sports” that other networks offer, which we believe dilutes the interest of our target audience. We believe this strategy has enabled us to build a loyal audience that tends to watch The Outdoor Channel instead of other channels that offer outdoor programming. Attractive Viewer Demographics We believe that The Outdoor Channel delivers a television audience that may not be available through other networks and is particularly desirable for advertisers seeking to target a large and concentrated audience of outdoor enthusiasts. We believe The Outdoor Channel audience consists primarily of males between the ages of 25 and 54, representing a demographic for which many advertisers allocate a portion of their budgets. According to studies by Mediamark Research Inc., in 2005, approximately 79% of the viewers of The Outdoor Channel were male. Nielsen indicates that in December 2005 the majority of our viewers in primetime did not watch competing specialized sports channels, such as The Golf Channel, ESPN2, OLN or Speed Channel. Large Outdoor-Focused Market We believe our programming appeals to traditional outdoor sports enthusiasts, including those who hunt and fish. According to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s latest survey conducted in 2001, there were estimated to be over 82 million people who participated in outdoor recreation and spent in excess of $100 billion pursuing these activities. Of this amount, people who participated in fishing or hunting collectively spent approximately $70 billion in pursuit of these activities. In addition, we believe our programming, which also includes off-road motor sports and other outdoor related lifestyle programming, appeals to an even broader audience. We also believe that our programming appeals to viewers that may have participated in traditional outdoor sports in the past or desire to do so in the future. As we continue to increase our subscriber base, we believe that national accounts will advertise on The Outdoor Channel to reach our focused audience of outdoor enthusiasts. Extensive Service Provider Relationships We have relationships or affiliate agreements with the majority of pay television service providers, including the 10 largest in the U.S. In fact, The Outdoor Channel was carried by the highest percentage of cable operators among those networks with 40 million or less subscribers, according to a November 2005 survey by Beta Research Corporation. According to Nielsen, The Outdoor Channel had approximately 25.7 million subscribers in December 2005. Based on our estimates, The Outdoor Channel is currently available to, and could potentially be subscribed by, over 77.6 million households. Highly Leverageable Business Model We anticipate that we will be able to transmit our programming to additional subscribers with little or no incremental delivery costs. We also believe that our programming, focused on traditional outdoor activities and recorded in natural settings, tends to be less expensive to produce than programming that requires elaborate sets, soundstages, highly compensated actors and a large production staff. Furthermore, the timeless nature of our outdoor programming allows us to rebroadcast and use our programming for additional purposes. Experienced and Committed Management Team The members of our senior management team and our board of directors have significant experience in the cable television sector and many of them have been associated with us for a considerable amount of time. The Outdoor Channel was founded by outdoor enthusiasts for outdoor enthusiasts. We believe that our thorough knowledge of the market for, and our active participation in, outdoor activities fosters an unwavering commitment to programming that is relevant to our viewers, producers, advertisers and sponsors. Our Business Growth Strategies The principal components of our strategy to grow our business are as follows. Seek to Grow Our Subscriber Base As a result of our focused content and affinity group marketing initiatives, we have been successful in increasing our subscriber base to approximately 25.7 million households in December 2005, as estimated by Nielsen, from our estimate of approximately 5.3 million households in 1999. We intend to seek new opportunities to continue to grow our subscriber base through the following initiatives: 6 • Expand distribution relationships. We intend to expand our marketing and sales efforts to grow our subscriber base. Through our existing relationships with carriers, we intend to offer service providers incentives to migrate our channel from premium packages to more affordable basic or expanded basic service packages with a greater number of subscribers. In addition, we plan to continue to pursue agreements with additional service providers. The incentives we intend to offer to service providers may include, but are not limited to, the following: • local marketing support, such as promotional materials and sharing of costs for local advertising; • training support for customer service representatives; • subscription fee waivers for a limited time; and • upfront payments to service providers, in the form of cash or our securities. • Adopt HD technology early–Outdoor Channel 2 HDSM. In March 2005, we began broadcasting a new channel called Outdoor Channel 2 HD with similar but different programs, produced entirely in high definition. This channel was formally launched on July 1, 2005. We believe that HD television complements our outdoor-themed content and represents a significant opportunity for us to expand our distribution and subscriber base. The audio and visual characteristics of HD substantially enhance the experience and sense of adventure provided by our programming. As a validation of the high quality, visually compelling nature of our HD programming, through an arrangement with Premier Retail Networks, Inc., we provide branded HD content being used to promote the sales of HD television sets in well known retail stores, such as Wal-Mart, Circuit City and Best Buy. As an early adopter of HD TV technology, we are ready to assist service providers as they migrate their offerings to HD TV by providing quality HD TV programming, thereby gaining distribution to this new customer segment early in its development. In addition, in an effort to increase distribution of The Outdoor Channel, we intend to offer price incentives to those service providers desiring to distribute both The Outdoor Channel and Outdoor Channel 2 HD. • Broaden our consumer-focused marketing. Our consumer marketing strategy is designed to increase consumer, or subscriber, demand. We currently have working relationships with numerous affinity organizations whose members are interested in outdoor activities such as hunting, fishing and shooting sports, off-road motor sports and other outdoor related lifestyle activities. We plan to strengthen these current relationships and to seek opportunities to enter into similar relationships with additional affinity groups and membership organizations interested in traditional outdoor activities and related pursuits. We also plan to increase consumer demand by expanding our marketing efforts to include broader-based advertising to enhance awareness of The Outdoor Channel and reach new viewers interested in outdoor activities. We believe that increased consumer awareness of our programming will create additional demand for The Outdoor Channel and encourage service providers to offer The Outdoor Channel within their most widely subscribed programming packages. Increase Sales and Marketing Efforts to Attract National Advertisers We plan to attract additional national advertisers to The Outdoor Channel, and we believe it will become easier to do so if we are successful in our efforts to grow our subscriber base. Over the past several years, we have increased our efforts to demonstrate the benefits of advertising on The Outdoor Channel to companies that advertise nationally. A significant portion of the increase in our advertising revenue over the last two years is attributable to increases in national advertising on The Outdoor Channel. Currently, national advertisers such as Ace Hardware, Arctic Cat, Cabela’s, Dickies, Enterprise Rent-a-Car, Geico Insurance, Gateway Computer, Jack Daniel’s, Remington, Sprint, and the U.S. Army regularly advertise on The Outdoor Channel. We believe our viewer demographics are attractive to these and many other national advertisers. In an effort to increase our advertising revenue, we have established a New York advertising sales office and plan to increase our visibility to national advertisers. We also offer national advertisers the opportunity to sponsor several hours of themed programming as a means to increase brand awareness and visibility to a targeted audience. These opportunities, which we refer to as block-programming sponsorships, enable advertisers to embed advertising messages and products in the programming itself in addition to purchasing traditional commercial spots. Our current block-programming sponsorships include Monday Night Fishing sponsored by Cabela’s, Tuesday Night Hunting sponsored by Mossy Oak and Wednesday Night Horsepower sponsored by Optima Batteries. 7 Create and Acquire High-Quality, Popular Programs Historically, we have contracted with third-party producers to provide a majority of our programming. These third-party producers retain ownership of their programming that we air and typically purchase from us a block of the advertising time available during the airing of their programming which they then resell to advertisers or use themselves. We currently produce approximately 22% of our programming schedule. In the future, we intend to produce more in-house programming and acquire ownership of programs produced by third parties by entering into exclusive, multi-year agreements. We believe this will allow us to retain and sell more advertising time for our own account at higher rates. We believe our programming has qualities that will provide opportunities for rebroadcast or additional uses in the future. As we develop in-house programming and acquire additional programming, we expect to develop a library of standard definition and HD programs that may be re-broadcast with little incremental cost. As a secondary use, we intend to seek opportunities to sell the airing rights to portions of footage captured in the normal course of our program production to production companies in need of natural setting footage. In addition, we believe that by owning the content that we air on The Outdoor Channel, we can better leverage other potential opportunities that may exist such as DVD sales and international syndication. Expand the Membership in Our Club Organizations We originally founded The Outdoor Channel in an attempt to more effectively market our club organizations, the theme of which is the search for small gold deposits and other treasure. In an effort to increase the membership base of GPAA and Lost Dutchman’s, we intend to continue to market to viewers of The Outdoor Channel and by producing programs that are specifically directed towards their interests. We will present to such viewers the benefits of membership in GPAA and Lost Dutchman’s while promoting subscriptions to our Gold Prospector & Treasure Hunters in the Great Outdoors magazine. In addition, we promote and market these two club organizations through direct mail campaigns and our promotion and sponsorship throughout the country of expositions dedicated to gold prospecting, treasure hunting and related interests. We also offer introductory outings at our campsites in an effort to increase membership sales in our national gold prospecting campground club and to increase the number of participants attending our unique expeditions held near Nome, Alaska and in the Motherlode area of California. Sources of Revenue No single customer of ours accounts for greater than 10% of our total revenue. Our revenues from The Outdoor Channel are derived primarily from two sources, advertising fees and subscriber fees, as discussed below. Advertising Fees We have two forms of advertising fees, short-form and long-form. Short-form Advertising. We sell short-form advertisements on The Outdoor Channel for commercial products and services, usually in 30 second increments. The total inventory for our short-form advertising consists of seven minutes per half hour. Of this available advertising time, one minute is reserved for the local service providers who may preempt the advertisement we insert into the program with a local advertisement. Of the remaining six minutes, we either sell it to advertisers for our own account or to third-party producers who then resell this time to advertisers for their own account or use it themselves. Advertisers purchase from us the one minute of advertising time per half hour that is reserved for the local service providers at a discount understanding that some of the service providers will superimpose their own spots over the advertising that we have inserted in the program, causing these advertisements to be seen by less than all of the viewers of any program. All of this advertising time is sold to direct response advertisers. Direct response advertisers rely on direct appeals to our viewers to purchase products or services from toll-free telephone numbers or websites and generally pay lower rates than national advertisers. For the advertising time that we retain for our own account, we endeavor to sell this time to national marketing firms and advertising agencies. The price we are able to charge for this advertising time is dependent on market conditions, perceived desirability of our viewers and, as estimated by Nielsen, the number of households subscribing to The Outdoor Channel and ratings. If we are unable to sell all of this advertising time to national firms and agencies, we sell the remaining time to direct response advertisers. We have been successful in increasing the amount of revenue generated from national advertisers in the last two years. The majority of our revenue from short-form advertising is a result of arrangements with advertising agencies, for which we pay a commission. However, we have some relationships with marketers who buy directly from us. 8 For the advertising time that we sell to third-party producers, we receive revenue directly from the producers. This revenue is often at a lower rate than we may have received if we were to retain such time and sell it ourselves. The producers then resell this advertising time to others or use this time to advertise their own products or services. Our advertising revenue tends to reflect seasonal patterns of advertising expenditures, which is common in the broadcast industry. Typically, our advertising revenue from short-form advertising during the second quarter is greater than the first quarter, and the fourth quarter is greater than the third quarter of each year. Long-form Advertising. Long form advertisements are infomercials that we typically run for 30 minutes, the majority of which are during the overnight hours. In the future, we may reduce the programming time used for infomercials by replacing it with traditional outdoor programming. Subscriber Fees Cable and satellite service providers typically pay monthly subscriber fees to us for the right to broadcast our channel. Our service provider contracts typically range from 5 to 10 years and contain an annual increase in the monthly subscriber fees. Our contracts also contain volume discounts for increased distribution by any one service provider. Programming The Outdoor Channel’s programming emphasizes traditional outdoor activities such as hunting, fishing and shooting sports, as well as off-road motor sports and other outdoor related lifestyle programming. Some examples of our programs are: Hunting/ Shooting Fishing Special Interest Ted Nugent Spirit of the Wild Mark Sosin’s Saltwater Journal World of Outlaws Sprint Car Racing* Jim Zumbo Outdoors* Randy Jones Strike Zone* Monsters of Destruction* Guns and Ammo TV World Class Sportfishing* Four Wheeler TV * Designates programs that are produced or owned by The Outdoor Channel, Inc. We either acquire or produce a program in-house or we license a program from a third party. We have been producing in-house programs since our founding in 1993, and in 2005 we produced and aired on The Outdoor Channel 20 regularly scheduled programs. Third-party programming license agreements typically provide that the producers retain ownership of the programming and that The Outdoor Channel is entitled to air each episode several times per week for periods ranging from three months to three years. Substantially all of our programming contracts with third parties allow us exclusive U.S. rights and non-exclusive foreign rights during the term of the licensing agreement. In 2005, we produced approximately 22% of our programs in-house and licensed the remaining 78% of our programs from third-party producers. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing efforts are focused on: (a) adding subscribers both through improved positioning with those service providers already carrying The Outdoor Channel and through new agreements with service provider systems not currently carrying The Outdoor Channel, (b) increasing demand from the viewing audience for both accessibility to The Outdoor Channel and for viewership of our programming and (c) cultivating existing and pursuing new advertising clients. Service Providers Generally, our sales and marketing efforts to increase distribution focus on developing strong relationships with existing and potential cable and satellite service providers through multiple points of contact including traditional sales visits, a dedicated customer service staff, an active local event team and the use of a dedicated web site. In addition to building strong relationships with our service providers, we are involved with a wide variety of traditional marketing efforts including advertising in trade publications, participating in industry trade shows, and supporting industry related associations. We anticipate that the widespread adoption of the digital and high definition products offered by our service providers will provide us with additional opportunities to grow and develop The Outdoor Channel and Outdoor Channel 2 HD. In order to strengthen the sales efforts of these service providers, we offer a wide variety of market specific support including the opportunity to partner with local outdoor clubs, local promotions, direct mail campaigns and integration into existing consumer marketing initiatives. 9 Consumers We market The Outdoor Channel to potential viewers to both create brand awareness and to drive consumer requests for carriage, or for more accessible packaging, by the service providers. These consumer-directed marketing efforts are coordinated with and may be funded in part by the service providers. These efforts often include traditional marketing campaigns consisting of print and radio advertising. We also use our website to market and promote The Outdoor Channel through schedule information, show synopses, games and contests. In addition, we have relationships with a number of outdoor clubs and organizations which provide opportunities for us to utilize their communication channels to reach their membership with targeted marketing messages. These relationships also allow The Outdoor Channel to be associated with organizations that have credibility and relevance to outdoor enthusiasts. Examples of the clubs and organizations with which we have developed these relationships include National Rifle Association, North American Hunting Club, North American Fishing Club and the National Wild Turkey Federation. We also have relationships and sponsorships with the following special interest groups: Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation, National Shooting Sports Foundation, Paralyzed Veterans of America, International Hunter Education Association, International Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and Farmers and Hunters Feeding the Hungry. In addition, we purchase advertisements in magazines that specialize in content similar to The Outdoor Channel. We currently advertise in approximately 90 magazines, including American Rifleman, Boys Life, Heartland USA, Off-Road Adventures and Sports Afield. Advertisers Sales and distribution of The Outdoor Channel’s advertising time are conducted by The Outdoor Channel’s in-house sales personnel. In 2002, we began to subscribe to Nielsen’s services, and the availability of this information has become a critical tool in attracting advertisers. Our sales team sells directly to national advertising accounts, and continuously monitors available spots in an effort to maximize advertising revenue. To increase our visibility in the advertising community, we advertise in trade publications and on trade web sites directed toward advertising executives. Other Businesses In addition to The Outdoor Channel, we own and operate related businesses that serve the interests of The Outdoor Channel viewers and other outdoor enthusiasts. These related businesses include Gold Prospector’s Association of America LLC, or GPAA, and LDMA-AU, Inc., or Lost Dutchman’s. We believe GPAA is one of the largest gold prospecting clubs in the world. GPAA’s members currently pay an initial membership fee of $79 and annual renewal fees ranging between $24 and $54. GPAA sells products and services related to gold prospecting and is the publisher of the “Gold Prospectors & Treasure Hunters in the Great Outdoors” magazine. Lost Dutchman’s is a national gold prospecting campground club with properties in Arizona, California, Colorado, Georgia, Michigan, Nevada, North Carolina, Oregon and South Carolina. Lost Dutchman’s members currently pay a membership fee ranging between $3,500 and $3,750 and an annual maintenance fee of $120. Members are entitled to use any of the campgrounds we own or have rights to use and are entitled to keep all gold found while prospecting on any of these properties. We also offer unique expeditions where participants enjoy gold prospecting and other outdoor activities. The expeditions include annual expeditions to the heart of the historic Motherlode area in central California and the camp on our 2,300-acre property along the Cripple River which empties into the Bering Sea near Nome, Alaska. Participants pay on a per-expedition basis. Financial Information about Segments Financial information related to our operating segments is included in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K, which note is incorporated by reference herein. The Outdoor Channel, or TOC, segment has provided greater than 15% of our consolidated revenue during each of the last three fiscal years. Competition We compete with other television channels for distribution, audience viewership and advertising sales. 10 The Outdoor Channel competes with other television channels to be included in the offerings of each system provider and for placement in the packaged offerings having the most subscribers. In addition, each television channel focusing on a particular form of content competes directly with other channels offering similar programming. In the case of The Outdoor Channel, we compete for distribution and viewers with other television networks aimed at our own target audience which we believe consists primarily of males between the ages of 25 and 54. We believe such competitors include OLN, Spike TV, ESPN and others. It is possible that these or other competitors, many of which have substantially greater financial and operational resources than us, could revise their programming to offer more traditional outdoor activities such as hunting, fishing, shooting and other topics which are of interest to our viewers. Certain technological advances, including the increased deployment of fiber optic cable, are expected to allow cable systems to greatly expand their present channel capacity. Such added capacity leaves room for additional programming of all types which could dilute our market share by enabling the emergence of channels with programming similar to that offered by The Outdoor Channel and lead to increased competition for viewers from existing or new channels. We also compete with television networks that generally have large subscriber bases and significant investments in, and access to, competitive programming sources. In addition, large cable companies have the financial and technological resources to create and distribute their own channels. For instance, OLN, which we currently consider to be our closest direct competitor, is owned and operated by Comcast, the largest MSO in the U.S. We believe that while our closest competitor currently offers blocks of similar programs, there is a substantial difference between the two networks. The Outdoor Channel emphasizes traditional outdoor activities, such as fishing and hunting, while OLN currently features a significant amount of programming concerning outdoor competitive, or extreme, sports and nature observation. As The Outdoor Channel becomes more established, however, it is possible that other channels will attempt to offer programming similar to ours. We compete for advertising revenue with other pay television networks, broadcast networks, and local over-the-air television stations. In addition, we compete for advertisers with other forms of advertising such as satellite and broadcast radio and the print media. We believe that many of these advertising avenues may not permit an advertiser to target the specific demographic audience who watches The Outdoor Channel. While Lost Dutchman’s has numerous campground competitors, we believe it is the largest campground club in the United States that has a gold prospecting theme. Campgrounds compete primarily by quality of facilities and amenities offered. Lost Dutchman’s has rustic facilities and few amenities and seeks to attract persons who are interested in gold prospecting and hands-on outdoor activities and who wish to be part of an informal family-oriented environment. We are not aware of any national direct competitor for our gold prospecting club GPAA, although in a broad sense both GPAA and Lost Dutchman’s compete with other sources of recreational activities. Lost Dutchman’s and GPAA both compete primarily through marketing and promotional activities involving expositions, advertisements and shows on The Outdoor Channel, reaching prospective members through our Gold Prospectors & Treasure Hunters in the Great Outdoors magazine and other marketing activities. Other Information Outdoor Channel Holdings, Inc. was originally incorporated in Alaska in 1984. On September 8, 2004, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of The Outdoor Channel, Inc. that we did not previously own. Effective September 15, 2004 we reincorporated from Alaska into Delaware. Employees As of February 1, 2006, we had a total of 145 employees of which 139 were full time. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good. Government Regulation Our operations are subject to various government regulations. The operations of cable television systems, satellite distribution systems and broadcast television program distribution companies are subject to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and to regulatory supervision by the FCC. Our leased uplink facility in Perris, California is licensed by the FCC and must be operated in conformance with the terms and conditions of that license. The license is also subject to periodic renewal and ongoing regulatory requirements. Cable systems that carry our programming also are subjected to local franchise authority regulation. Local Cable Regulation The cable television industry is regulated by municipalities or other local government authorities which have the jurisdiction to grant and to assign franchises and to negotiate generally the terms and conditions of such franchises, including rates for basic service charged to subscribers, except to the extent that such jurisdiction is preempted by federal law. Any such rate regulation could place downward pressure on the potential subscriber fees we can earn. 11 Federal Cable Regulation In 1992, Congress enacted the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, or the 1992 Cable Act, which provides, among other things, for a “must-carry” regime for local broadcast stations (which requires the mandatory carriage of certain broadcast stations and consideration to other broadcast stations for retransmission of their signals and carriage of local broadcast stations on specific channels. The Cable Communication Policy Act of 1984 requires cable television systems with 36 or more “activated” channels to reserve a percentage of such channels for commercial use by unaffiliated third parties and permits franchise authorities to require channel capacity, equipment and facilities for public educational and government access channels. In response to the 1992 Cable Act , the FCC adopted regulations prohibiting programmers in which cable operators have an “attributable interest” from discriminating between cable operators and their competitors, or among cable operators, and for increased competition in video programming distribution (both within the cable industry and between cable and competing video distributors). The 1992 Cable Act also directed the FCC to adopt regulations limiting the percentage of nationwide subscribers any one MSO could serve and the carriage by cable systems and other video distributors of affiliated programming services. Although the FCC adopted such regulations, they were invalidated by a Court of Appeals in 2001. The FCC subsequently initiated rulemaking proceedings which remain pending. In addition, the 1992 Cable Act requires the FCC to establish regulations for the rates that cable operators subject to rate regulation may charge for basic cable service and certain other services. Rates are not regulated for cable systems which are subject to effective competition, as defined in the FCC’s regulations. The 1993 Cable Act also directed the FCC to establish guidelines for determining when cable programming may not be provided exclusively to cable operators. The FCC’s implementing regulations preclude virtually all exclusive programming contracts between cable operators and satellite programmers affiliated with any cable operator (unless the FCC first determines the contract serves the public interest) and generally prohibit a cable operator that has an attributable interest in a satellite programmer from improperly influencing the terms and conditions of sale to unaffiliated multi-channel video programming distributors. In 1996, Congress enacted the most comprehensive rewrite of telecommunications law since the Communications Act of 1934, modifying many of the provisions of the 1992 Act. Among other things, the legislation allows the cable and telephone industries to compete in each other’s markets and phased out federal cable rate regulation of non-basic services, such as the rates charged by cable operators to subscribers for our programming, in most instances. It also required the FCC to establish rules ensuring that video programming is fully accessible to the hearing impaired through closed captioning. The rules adopted by the FCC require substantial closed captioning over a six to ten year phase-in period, which began in 2000, with only limited exceptions. Congress and the FCC may, in the future, adopt new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters which could affect The Outdoor Channel. We are unable to predict the outcome of future federal legislation, regulation or policies, or the impact of any such laws, regulations or policies on The Outdoor Channel’s operations. GPAA and Lost Dutchman’s Regulations To operate our campgrounds and mining sites, we must obtain discretionary permits or approvals issued by local governments under local zoning ordinances and other state laws. In addition, to construct improvements, we have usually been required to obtain permits such as building and sanitary sewage permits. Some states in which we sell memberships have laws regulating campground memberships. These laws sometimes require comprehensive disclosure to prospective purchasers. Some states have laws requiring us to register with a state agency and obtain a permit to market. Other Regulations In addition to the regulations applicable to the cable television and gold mining industries in general, we are also subject to various local, state and federal regulations, including, without limitation, regulations promulgated by federal and state environmental, health and labor agencies. In addition, our mining clubs are subject to various local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning, zoning, development, and other utilization of its properties. Intellectual Property “The Outdoor Channel®” is a registered trademark, and “Outdoor Channel 2 HDSM” is a service mark, of The Outdoor Channel, Inc. We have also filed for registration of other trademarks, none of which we consider material at this time. In addition, we rely on copyright protection of those programs that we own. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You may read and copy any materials we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the Public Reference Room. The Securities and Exchange Commission also maintains a web site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and 12 information statements and other information concerning issuers that file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including us. Our common stock is listed on The Nasdaq National Market. We also maintain an internet site at http://www.outdoorchannelholdings.com that contains information concerning us. Information included or referred to on our website is not incorporated by reference in or otherwise a part of this report. You may obtain a free copy of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports on the day of filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission on our website on the World Wide Web at http://www.outdoorchannelholdings.com. We will also provide without charge, upon written or oral request, a copy of any or all of the documents referred to above. Requests for such documents should be directed to Attention: General Counsel, 43445 Business Park Drive, Suite 113, Temecula, California 92590 (Telephone: (951) 699-4749). ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The Company’s business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and the following list should not be considered to be a definitive list of all factors that may affect the Company’s business, financial condition and future operating results and should be read in conjunction with the risks and uncertainties, including risk factors, contained in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any forward-looking statements made by the Company are made with the intention of obtaining the benefits of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Securities Litigation Reform Act and a number of factors, including, but not limited to those discussed below, could cause our actual results and experiences to differ materially from the anticipated results or expectations expressed in any forward-looking statements. We may not be able to grow our subscriber base at a sufficient rate to offset planned increased costs or at all, and as a result our revenues and profitability may not increase and could decrease. A major component of our growth strategy is based on increasing the number of subscribers to our channels. Growing our subscriber base depends upon many factors, such as the success of our marketing efforts in driving consumer demand for our channels; overall growth in cable and satellite subscribers; the popularity of our programming; our ability to negotiate new carriage agreements, or amendments to current carriage agreements, and maintain existing distribution; plus other factors that are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or increase the subscriber base of our channels on cable and satellite systems or that our current carriage will not decrease as a result of a number of factors. In particular, negotiations for new carriage agreements, or amendments to current carriage agreements, are lengthy and complex, and we are not able to predict with any accuracy when such increases in our subscriber base may occur, if at all. If we are unable to grow our subscriber base, our subscriber and advertising revenues may not increase and could decrease. In addition, as we plan and prepare for such projected growth in our subscriber base, we plan to increase our expenses accordingly. If we are not able to increase our revenue to offset these increased expenses, our profitability could decrease. If we offer increased launch support fees or other incentives to service providers in order to grow our subscriber base, our operating results may be harmed. Although we currently have plans to increase our marketing and sales efforts in an attempt to increase the number of our subscribers, we may not be able to do so economically or at all. If we are unable to increase the number of our subscribers on a cost-effective basis, or if the benefits of doing so do not materialize, our business and operating results would be harmed. In particular, if we make any upfront cash payments to service providers for an increase in our subscriber base, our cash flow could be adversely impacted, and we may incur negative cash flow for some time. In addition, if we were to make such upfront cash payments or provide other incentives to service providers, we expect to amortize such amounts ratably over the term of the agreements with the service providers. However, if a service provider terminates any such agreement prior to the expiration of the term of such agreement, then under current accounting rules we may incur a large expense in that quarter in which the agreement is terminated equal to the remaining un-amortized amounts and our operating results could accordingly be adversely affected. If, in our attempt to increase our number of subscribers, we structure launch support fees with one service provider in a way that would require us to offer the same support or incentives to all other service providers, our operating results may be harmed. Many of our existing agreements with cable and satellite service providers contain “most favored nation” clauses. These clauses typically provide that if we enter into an agreement with another service provider on more favorable terms, these terms must be offered to the existing service provider, subject to some exceptions and conditions. Future agreements with service providers may also contain similar “most favored nation” clauses. If, in our attempt to increase our number of subscribers, we structure launch support fees to effectively offer more favorable terms to any service provider, these clauses 13 may require us to reduce the effective subscriber fee rates that we receive from other service providers, and this could negatively affect our operating results. If our channels are placed in unpopular program packages by cable or satellite service providers, or if service fees are increased for our subscribers, the number of viewers of our channels may decline which could harm our business and operating results. We do not control the channels with which our channels are packaged by cable or satellite service providers. The placement by a cable or satellite service provider of our channels in unpopular program package could reduce or impair the growth of the number of our viewers and subscriber fees paid by service providers to us. In addition, we do not set the prices charged by cable and satellite service providers to their subscribers when our channels are packaged with other television channels. The prices for the channel packages in which our channels are bundled may be set too high to appeal to individuals who might otherwise be interested in our networks. Further, if our channels are bundled by service providers with networks that do not appeal to our viewers or is moved to packages with fewer subscribers, we may lose viewers. These factors may reduce the number of viewers of our channel, which in turn would reduce our subscriber fees and advertising revenue. Cable and satellite service providers could discontinue or refrain from carrying The Outdoor Channel, which could reduce the number of viewers and harm our operating results. The success of The Outdoor Channel is dependent, in part, on our ability to enter into new carriage agreements and maintain existing agreements with, and carriage by, satellite systems and multiple system operators’, which we refer to as MSOs, affiliated regional or individual cable systems. Although we have relationships or agreements with most of the largest MSOs and satellite service providers, execution of an agreement with an MSO does not ensure that its affiliated regional or individual cable systems will carry The Outdoor Channel. Under our current agreements, The Outdoor Channel typically offers MSOs and their cable affiliates the right to broadcast The Outdoor Channel to their subscribers, but such contracts do not require that The Outdoor Channel be offered to all subscribers of, or any tiers offered by, the MSO. Because certain carriage agreements do not specify on which service levels The Outdoor Channel is carried, such as analog versus basic digital, expanded digital or specialty tiers, and in which geographic markets The Outdoor Channel will be offered, we have no assurance that The Outdoor Channel will be carried and available to viewers of any particular MSO or to all satellite subscribers. If cable and satellite service providers discontinue or refrain from carrying The Outdoor Channel, this could reduce the number of viewers and harm our operating results. We may not be able to effectively manage our future growth, and our growth may not continue, which may substantially harm our business and prospects. We have undergone rapid and significant growth in revenue and subscribers over the last several years, and our strategic objectives include not only further developing and enhancing our existing business, but also expanding our in-house production capabilities. There are risks inherent in rapid growth and the pursuit of new strategic objectives, including among others: investment and development of appropriate infrastructure, such as facilities, information technology systems and other equipment to support a growing organization; hiring and training new management, sales and marketing, production, and other personnel and the diversion of management’s attention and resources from critical areas and existing projects; and implementing systems and procedures to successfully manage growth, such as monitoring operations, controlling costs, maintaining effective quality and service, and implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls. Although we have recently upgraded our Temecula, California production facility, we expect that additional expenditures will be required as we continue to upgrade our facilities and to begin transmitting our channel from our facilities directly. In particular, we have purchased a building near our current headquarters and are currently building out this property primarily for use as our broadcast facility in the future. We could incur cost overruns, delays and other difficulties with this construction. In addition, moving our broadcast facility and some of our personnel into this new facility could be disruptive to our operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully manage our growth, that future growth will occur or that we will be successful in managing our business objectives. We can provide no assurance that our profitability or revenues will not be harmed by future changes in our business. Our operating results could be harmed if such growth does not occur, or is slower or less profitable than projected. We may not be able to secure national advertising accounts, and as a result, our revenues and profitability may be negatively impacted. Our ability to secure national advertising accounts, which generally pay higher advertising rates, depends upon the size of our audience, the popularity of our programming and the demographics of our viewers, as well as strategies taken by our competitors, strategies taken by advertisers and the relative bargaining power of advertisers. Competition for national advertising accounts and related advertising expenditures is intense. We face competition for such advertising expenditures 14 from a variety of sources, including other cable network companies and other media. We cannot assure you that our sponsors will pay advertising rates for commercial air time at levels sufficient for us to make a profit or that we will be able to attract new advertising sponsors or increase advertising revenues. If we are unable to attract national advertising accounts in sufficient quantities, our revenues and profitability may be harmed. We may be required to pay additional state income taxes for past years. We are required to pay income taxes in various states in which we conduct our business operations. In the past, we have paid state income taxes only in California (where our headquarters is located) and have not paid income taxes to any other state. We have determined that we may have state income tax liability in the eight states other than California in which our gold prospecting properties are located. Although we expect in the near future to gather sufficient information to enable us to apportion our income to such states and file income tax returns in those states for past years, we can offer no assurances as to when we will be able to file state income tax returns in those states where we may have outstanding, current and future tax liabilities. In general, we believe any income taxes that we may be required to pay to states other than California will be partially offset by a refund from the State of California for income tax amounts we have overpaid to California in past years. We may, however, be limited as to the number of years for which we can receive a refund from California for taxes previously paid, and we cannot predict when we would receive any such refund. In addition, because each state to which we may owe outstanding income taxes has a different methodology for calculating tax owed and a different tax rate, our aggregate state income tax liability could be greater than what we have paid to California in prior years. Our aggregate state income tax liability, on which we may owe accrued interest and penalties, could be material to our results of operations. Expenses relating to programming costs are generally increasing and a number of factors can cause cost overruns and delays, and our operating results may be adversely impacted if we are not able to successfully recover the costs of developing and acquiring new programming. The average cost of programming has increased recently for the cable industry and such increases may continue. We plan to build our programming library through the acquisition of long-term broadcasting rights from third party producers, in-house production and outright acquisition of programming, and this may lead to increases in our programming costs. The development, production and editing of television programming requires a significant amount of capital and there are substantial financial risks inherent in developing and producing television programs. Actual programming and production costs may exceed their budgets. Factors such as labor disputes, death or disability of key spokespersons or program hosts, damage to film negatives, master tapes and recordings or adverse weather conditions may cause cost overruns and delay or prevent completion of a project. If we are not able to successfully recover the costs of developing or acquiring programming through increased revenues, whether the programming is produced by us or acquired from third-party producers, our business and operating results will be harmed. Our operating results may be negatively impacted if our Outdoor Channel 2 HD network is not as successful as we anticipate. In July 2005, we launched an all new, all native high definition network called Outdoor Channel 2 HD. There can be no assurance that Outdoor Channel 2 HD will not incur unexpected costs and expenses. Distribution of Outdoor Channel 2 HD will depend on successfully executing new or amended distribution agreements with cable and satellite service providers. There can be no assurance that such agreements can be made, and if they are made, that they will be on terms favorable to us or that they will not require us to grant periods of free service and/or marketing commitments to encourage carriage. The public may not adopt HD consumer television equipment in numbers sufficient to allow profits for an advertiser-supported service. Bandwidth constraints may keep Outdoor Channel 2 HD from achieving sufficient distribution from service providers to reach profitability. Competition for quality HD content may increase the costs of programming for Outdoor Channel 2 HD beyond our control or expectations. All of these factors, combined or separately, could increase costs or restrain revenue and adversely affect our operating results. Our operating results may vary significantly, and historical comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance. Our operations are influenced by many factors. These factors may cause our financial results to vary significantly in the future and our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our stock may decline. Factors that can cause our results to fluctuate include, but are not limited to: • carriage decisions of cable and satellite service providers; • demand for advertising, advertising rates and offerings of competing media; 15 • changes in the growth rate of cable and satellite subscribers; • cable and satellite service providers’ capital and marketing expenditures and their impact on programming offerings and penetration; • seasonal trends in viewer interests and activities; • pricing, service, marketing and acquisition decisions that could reduce revenues and impair quarterly financial results; • the mix of cable television and satellite-delivered programming products and services sold and the distribution channels for those products and services; • our ability to react quickly to changing consumer trends; • specific economic conditions in the cable television and related industries; and • changing regulatory requirements. Due to the foregoing and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, our revenue and operating results vary from period to period and are difficult to forecast. Our expense levels are based in significant part on our expectations of future revenue. Therefore, our failure to meet revenue expectations would seriously harm our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Further, an unanticipated decline in revenue for a particular calendar quarter may disproportionately affect our profitability because our expenses would remain relatively fixed and would not decrease correspondingly. Changes to financial accounting standards or our accounting estimates may affect our reported operating results. We prepare our financial statements to conform with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), which are subject to interpretations by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in those policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Accounting policies affecting many other aspects of our business, including rules relating to business combinations and employee stock option grants, have recently been revised or are under review. Changes to those rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. In addition, our preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires that we make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the recorded amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of those assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the recorded amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. A change in the facts and circumstances surrounding those estimates, including the interpretation of the terms and conditions of our contractual obligations, could result in a change to our estimates and could impact our future operating results. If we fail to develop and distribute popular programs, our viewership would likely decline, which could cause advertising and subscriber fee revenues to decrease. Our operating results depend significantly upon the generation of advertising revenue. Our ability to generate advertising revenues is largely dependent on our Nielsen ratings, which estimates the number of viewers of The Outdoor Channel, and this directly impacts the level of interest of advertisers and rates we are able to charge. If we fail to program popular shows that maintain or increase our current number of viewers, our Nielsen ratings could decline, which in turn could cause our advertising revenue to decline and adversely impact our business and operating results. In addition, if we fail to program popular shows the number of subscribers to our channel may also decrease, resulting in a decrease in our subscriber fee and advertising revenue. Changes in the methodology used by Nielsen to estimate our subscriber base or television ratings, or inaccuracies in such estimates, could cause our advertising revenue to decrease. Our ability to sell advertising is largely dependent on television ratings and our subscriber base estimated by Nielsen. We do not control the methodology used by Nielsen for these estimates. If Nielsen modifies its methodology or changes the statistical sample it uses for these estimates, such as the demographic characteristics of the households, our ratings could be negatively affected resulting in a decrease in our advertising revenue. 16 The market in which we operate is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively, particularly against competitors with greater financial resources, brand recognition, marketplace presence and relationships with service providers. We compete for viewers with other pay cable television and broadcast networks, including OLN, Spike TV, ESPN2 and others. If these or other competitors, many of which have substantially greater financial and operational resources than us, significantly expand their operations with respect to outdoor-related programming or their market penetration, our business could be harmed. In addition, certain technological advances, including the deployment of fiber optic cable, which are already substantially underway, are expected to allow cable systems to greatly expand their current channel capacity, which could dilute our market share and lead to increased competition for viewers from existing or new programming services. We also compete with television network companies that generally have large subscriber bases and significant investments in, and access to, competitive programming sources. In some cases, we compete with cable and satellite service providers that have the financial and technological resources to create and distribute their own television networks, such as OLN, which is owned and operated by Comcast. In order to compete for subscribers, we may pay either launch fees or marketing support or both for carriage in certain circumstances in the future, which may require significant cash expenditures, harming our operating results and margins. We may also issue our securities from time to time in connection with our attempts for broader distribution of The Outdoor Channel and the number of such securities could be significant. We compete for advertising sales with other pay television networks, broadcast networks, and local over-the-air television stations. We also compete for advertising sales with satellite and broadcast radio and the print media. We compete with other cable television networks for subscriber fees from, and affiliation agreements with, cable and satellite service providers. Actions by the Federal Communications Commission, which we refer to as the FCC, and the courts have removed certain of the impediments to entry by local telephone companies into the video programming distribution business, and other impediments could be eliminated or modified in the future. These local telephone companies may distribute programming that is competitive with the programming provided by us to cable operators. Changes in corporate governance and securities disclosure and compliance practices have increased and may continue to increase our legal compliance and financial reporting costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 required us to change or supplement some of our corporate governance and securities disclosure and compliance practices. The Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq have revised, and continue to revise, their regulations and listing standards. These developments have increased, and may continue to increase, our legal compliance and financial reporting costs. We may not be able to attract new, or retain existing, members in our club organizations, and as a result our revenues and profitability may be harmed. Our ability to attract new members and retain existing members in our club organizations, GPAA and Lost Dutchman’s, depends, in part, upon our marketing efforts, including our programming on The Outdoor Channel and such other efforts as direct mail campaigns, continued sponsorship of expositions dedicated to gold prospecting, treasure hunting and related interests around the country and introductory outings held at our campsites. We cannot assure you that we will successfully attract new members or retain existing members. A decline in membership in our club organizations could harm our business and operating results. Consolidation among cable and satellite distributors may harm our business. Cable and satellite operators continue to consolidate, making The Outdoor Channel increasingly dependent on fewer operators. If these operators fail to carry The Outdoor Channel, use their increased distribution and bargaining power to negotiate less favorable terms of carriage or to obtain additional volume discounts, our business and operating results would suffer. The satellite infrastructure that we use may fail or be preempted by another signal, which could impair our ability to deliver programming to our cable and satellite service providers. Our ability to deliver programming to service providers, and their subscribers, is dependent upon the satellite equipment and software that we use to work properly to distribute our programming. If this satellite system fails, or a signal with a higher priority replaces our signal, which is determined by our agreement with the owner of the satellite, we may not be able to deliver programming to our cable and satellite service provider customers and their subscribers within the time periods advertised. We have negotiated for back-up capability with our satellite provider on an in-orbit spare satellite, which provides us carriage on the back-up satellite in the event that catastrophic failure occurs on the primary satellite. Our contract provides 17 that our main signal is subject to preemption and until the back-up satellite is in position, we could lose our signal for a period of time. A loss of our signal could harm our reputation and reduce our revenues and profits. Natural disasters and other events beyond our control could interrupt our signal. Our systems and operations may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures and similar events. They also could be subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism. Since our production facilities for The Outdoor Channel are all located in Temecula, California, the results of such events could be particularly disruptive because we do not have readily available alternative facilities from which to conduct our business. Our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our facilities could result in interruptions in our services. Interruptions in our service could harm our reputation and reduce our revenues and profits. Seasonal increases or decreases in advertising revenue may negatively affect our business. Seasonal trends are likely to affect our viewership, and consequently, could cause fluctuations in our advertising revenues. Our business reflects seasonal patterns of advertising expenditures, which is common in the broadcast industry. For this reason, fluctuations in our revenues and net income could occur from period to period depending upon the availability of advertising revenues. Due, in part, to these seasonality factors, the results of any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for future periods, and our cash flows may not correlate with revenue recognition. We may be unable to access capital on acceptable terms to fund our future operations. Our future capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including the success of our efforts to increase advertising revenues, the amount of resources devoted to increasing distribution of The Outdoor Channel, and acquiring and producing programming for The Outdoor Channel. As a result, we could be required to raise substantial additional capital through debt or equity financing. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities could result in dilution to existing stockholders. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of debt securities, the debt securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to holders of common stock and the terms of such debt could impose restrictions on our operations. In November 2005, we entered into an aggregate of up to thirteen million dollars in debt financing from a commercial bank. We cannot assure you that additional capital, if required, will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, our current business strategies and plans and ability to fund future operations may be harmed. We may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of the principal members of our sales, marketing, production and management personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. None of our employees are under contract and all of our employees are “at-will.” Any of our officers or key employees could leave at any time, and we do not have “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our employees. The competition for qualified personnel has been strong in our industry. This competition could make it more difficult to retain our key personnel and to recruit new highly qualified personnel. The loss of Perry T. Massie, our President and Chief Executive Officer and Co-President of The Outdoor Channel, Inc., or Thomas H. Massie, our Executive Vice President, or William A. Owen, our Chief Financial Officer, or Andrew J. Dale, the Chief Executive Officer and Co-President of The Outdoor Channel, Inc., or Thomas E. Hornish, our General Counsel, could adversely impact our business. To attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be required to grant large option or other stock-based incentive awards, which may be highly dilutive to existing stockholders. We may also be required to pay significant base salaries and cash bonuses to attract and retain these individuals, which payments could harm our operating results. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel we may not be able to implement our business plan. New video recording technologies may reduce our advertising revenue. A number of new personal video recorders, such as TiVo® in the United States, have emerged in recent years. These recorders often contain features allowing viewers to watch pre-recorded programs without watching advertising. The effect of these recorders on viewing patterns and exposure to advertising could harm our operations and results if our advertisers reduce the advertising rates they are willing to pay because they believe television advertisements are less effective with these technologies. 18 Cable and satellite television programming signals have been stolen or could be stolen in the future, which reduces our potential revenue from subscriber fees and advertising. The delivery of subscription programming requires the use of conditional access technology to limit access to programming to only those who subscribe to programming and are authorized to view it. Conditional access systems use, among other things, encryption technology to protect the transmitted signal from unauthorized access. It is illegal to create, sell or otherwise distribute software or devices to circumvent conditional access technologies. However, theft of cable and satellite programming has been widely reported, and the access or “smart” cards used in cable and satellite service providers’ conditional access systems have been compromised and could be further compromised in the future. When conditional access systems are compromised, we do not receive the potential subscriber fee revenues from the cable and satellite service providers. Further, measures that could be taken by cable and satellite service providers to limit such theft are not under our control. Piracy of our copyrighted materials could reduce our revenue from subscriber fees and advertising and negatively affect our business and operating results. Because we expect to become increasingly dependent upon our intellectual property rights, our inability to protect those rights could negatively impact our ability to compete. We currently license approximately 78% of programs we air on The Outdoor Channel from third-party television and film producers. In order to build a library of programs and programming distribution rights, we must obtain all of the necessary rights, releases and consents from the parties involved in developing a project or from the owners of the rights in a completed program. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary rights on acceptable terms, or at all, or properly maintain and document such rights. In addition, protecting our intellectual property rights by pursuing those who infringe or dilute our rights can be costly and time consuming. If we are unable to protect our portfolio of trademarks, service marks, copyrighted material and characters, trade names and other intellectual property rights, our business and our ability to compete could be harmed. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming, costly to defend and result in our loss of significant rights. Other parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us, and our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time, we receive letters alleging infringement of intellectual property rights of others. Intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay substantial damages to the party claiming infringement or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable or desirable terms, if at all. Our failure to license the proprietary rights on a timely basis would harm our business. Some of our existing stockholders can exert control over us and may not make decisions that are in the best interests of all stockholders. Our current officers, directors and greater than 5% stockholders together currently control approximately 52.5% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, would be able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even when a change may be in the best interests of stockholders. In addition, the interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests as a company or the interests of other stockholders. Accordingly, these stockholders could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that you would not approve. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Our stock has historically been and continues to be traded at relatively low volumes and therefore has been subject to price volatility. Various factors contribute to the volatility of our stock price, including, for example, low trading volume, quarterly variations in our financial results, increased competition and general economic and market conditions. While we cannot predict the individual effect that these factors may have on the market price of our common stock, these factors, either individually or in the aggregate, could result in significant volatility in our stock price during any given period of time. There can be no assurance that a more active trading market in our stock will develop. As a result, relatively small trades may have a significant impact on the price of our common stock. Moreover, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock often are subject to securities class action litigation. If we were the subject of such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. 19 Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and under Delaware law may enable our incumbent management to retain control of us and discourage or prevent a change of control that may be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, these provisions could prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions: • allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors; • establish a classified board of directors, providing that not all members of the board be elected at one time; • require a 66 2/3% stockholder vote to remove a director, and only for cause; • authorize our board of directors to issue without stockholder approval blank check preferred stock that, if issued, could operate as a “poison pill” to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our board of directors; • require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit stockholder action by written consent; • establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our board of directors or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; • except as provided by law, allow only our board of directors to call a special meeting of the stockholders; and • require a 66 2/3% stockholder vote to amend our certificate of incorporation or bylaws. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may, unless certain criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a prescribed period of time. Technologies in the cable and satellite television industry are constantly changing, and our failure to acquire or maintain state-of-the-art technology may harm our business and competitive advantage. The technologies used in the cable and satellite television industry are rapidly evolving. Many technologies and technological standards are in development and have the potential to significantly transform the ways in which programming is created and transmitted. In addition, under some of our MSO contracts, we may be required to encrypt our signal. We cannot accurately predict the effects that implementing new technologies will have on our programming and broadcasting operations. We may be required to incur substantial capital expenditures to implement new technologies, or, if we fail to do so, may face significant new challenges due to technological advances adopted by competitors, which in turn could result in harming our business and operating results. The cable and satellite television industry is subject to substantial governmental regulation for which compliance may increase our costs and expose us to penalties for failure to comply. The cable television industry is subject to extensive legislation and regulation at the federal and local levels, and, in some instances, at the state level, and many aspects of such regulation are currently the subject of judicial proceedings and administrative or legislative proposals. Similarly, the satellite television industry is subject to federal regulation. Operating in a regulated industry increases our cost of doing business as a video programmer. The Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, to which we refer as the 1992 Cable Act, includes provisions that preclude cable operators affiliated with video programmers from favoring their programmers over competitors. The 1992 Cable Act also precludes such programmers from selling their programming exclusively to cable operators. These provisions potentially benefit independent programmers such as us by limiting the ability of cable operators affiliated with programmers from carrying only programming in which they have an ownership interest and from offering exclusive programming arrangements. However, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit vacated the FCC Rule limiting the carriage of affiliated programmers by cable operators. Although the FCC issued further 20 notices of proposed rulemaking in 2001 and 2005 addressing this issue, it has not adopted new rules. The exclusivity provision is scheduled to expire in October 2007 unless the FCC then determines that a further extension is necessary to protect competition and diversity. If these provisions of the 1992 Cable Act expire or become no longer applicable, and if we are still able to increase the number of subscribers to our channel, then the costs associated with doing so may increase significantly. Regulatory carriage requirements also could reduce the number of channels available to carry The Outdoor Channel. The 1992 Cable Act granted television broadcasters a choice of must-carry rights or retransmission consent rights. The rules adopted by the FCC generally provided for mandatory carriage by cable systems of all local full-power commercial television broadcast signals selecting must-carry rights and, depending on a cable system’s channel capacity, non-commercial television broadcast signals. Such statutorily mandated carriage of broadcast stations, coupled with the provisions of the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, which require cable television systems with 36 or more “activated” channels to reserve a percentage of such channels for commercial use by unaffiliated third parties and permit franchise authorities to require the cable operator to provide channel capacity, equipment and facilities for public, educational and government access channels, could reduce carriage of The Outdoor Channel by limiting its carriage in cable systems with limited channel capacity. In 2001, the FCC adopted rules relating to the cable carriage of digital television signals. Among other things, the rules clarify that a digital-only television station can assert a right to analog or digital carriage on a cable system. The FCC initiated a further proceeding to determine whether television broadcasters may assert the rights to carriage of both analog and digital signals during the transition to digital television and to carriage of all digital signals. On February 10, 2005, the FCC decided that television broadcasters do not have such additional must-carry rights. Broadcasters formally have requested that the FCC reconsider this decision and are seeking legislative change to require such carriage. The imposition of such additional must-carry regulation, in conjunction with any limited cable system channel capacity, would increase the likelihood that cable operators may be forced to drop some cable programming services and could reduce carriage of The Outdoor Channel. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 required the FCC to establish rules and an implementation schedule to ensure that video programming is fully accessible to the hearing impaired through closed captioning. The rules adopted by the FCC require substantial closed captioning over a six to ten year phase-in period, which began in 2000, with only limited exemptions. As a result, we will continue to incur additional costs for closed captioning. If we distribute television programming through other types of media, we may be required to obtain federal, state and local licenses or other authorizations to offer such services. We may not be able to obtain licenses or authorizations in a timely manner, or at all, or conditions could be imposed upon licenses and authorizations that may not be favorable to us. In the future, any increased regulation of rates, and in particular the rates for basic cable services, could, among other things, put downward pressure on the rates charged by cable programming services, and affect the ability or willingness of cable system operators to retain or to add The Outdoor Channel network on their cable systems. In response to a request from the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, the FCC’s Media Bureau conducted a study in 2004 regarding, among other things, government-mandated a la carte or mini-tier packaging of programming services in which each subscriber would purchase only those channels that he or she desired instead of the larger bundles of different channels as is typical today. The Media Bureau’s report on November 18, 2004 observed that such packaging would increase the cost of programming to consumers and injure programmers. On February 9, 2006, the Media Bureau released a further report which stated that the 2004 report was flawed and which concluded that a-la-carte sales could be in the best interests of consumers. Although the FCC cannot mandate a-al-carte sales, its endorsement of the concept could encourage Congress to consider proposals to mandate a-ala-carte sales or otherwise seek to impose greater regulatory controls on how cable programming is sold. If, in response to any statue enacted by Congress, or any rate or other government regulation, cable system operators implement channel offerings that require subscribers to affirmatively choose to pay a separate fee to receive The Outdoor Channel, either by itself or in combination with a limited number of other channels, the number of viewers for The Outdoor Channel could be reduced. The regulation of programming services, cable television systems and satellite licensees is subject to the political process and has been in constant flux over the past decade. Further material changes in the law and regulatory requirements are difficult to anticipate and our business may be harmed by future legislation, new regulation, deregulation or court decisions interpreting laws and regulations. We must comply with many local, state, federal and environmental regulations, for which compliance may be costly and may expose us to substantial penalties. Our recreational outdoor activity entities, GPAA and Lost Dutchman’s, share the general risks of all outdoor recreational activities such as personal injury, environmental compliance and real estate and environmental regulation. In addition to the general cable television industry regulations, we are also subject to various local, state and federal regulations, including, without limitation, regulations promulgated by federal and state environmental, health and labor agencies. Our 21 prospecting clubs are subject to various local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, development and other utilization of their properties. We cannot predict what impact current or future regulations may have on these businesses. In addition, failure to maintain required permits or licenses, or to comply with applicable regulations, could result in substantial fines or costs or revocation of our operating licenses, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. If our goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangibles become impaired, we will be required to take a non-cash charge which could have a significant effect on our reported net earnings. A significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, or SFAS 142, we test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year, and on an interim date if factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim test. A significant downward revision in the present value of estimated future cash flows for a reporting unit could result in an impairment of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangibles under SFAS 142 and a non-cash charge would be required. Such a charge could have a significant effect on our reported net earnings. For 2005, no impairment charge was required. Future issuance by us of preferred shares could adversely affect the holders of existing shares, and therefore reduce the value of existing shares. We are authorized to issue up to 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The issuance of any preferred stock could adversely affect the rights of the holders of shares of our common stock, and therefore reduce the value of such shares. No assurance can be given that we will not issue shares of preferred stock in the future. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will also depend on our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Furthermore, we may in the future become subject to contractual restrictions on, or prohibitions against, the payment of dividends. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 22 