ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and the following list should not be considered to be a definitive list of all factors that may affect our business, financial condition and future operating results and should be read in conjunction with the risks and uncertainties, including risk factors, contained in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any forward-looking statements made by us are made with the intention of obtaining the benefits of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Securities Litigation Reform Act and a number of factors, including, but not limited to those discussed below, could cause our actual results and experiences to differ materially from the anticipated results or expectations expressed in any forward-looking statements. We do not control the methodology used by Nielsen to estimate our subscriber base or television ratings, and changes, or inaccuracies, in such estimates could cause our advertising revenue to decrease. Our ability to sell advertising is largely dependent on the size of our subscriber base and television ratings estimated by Nielsen. We do not control the methodology used by Nielsen for these estimates, and estimates regarding The Outdoor Channel’s subscriber base made by Nielsen is theirs alone and does not represent opinions, forecasts or predictions of Outdoor Channel Holdings, Inc. or its management. Outdoor Channel Holdings, Inc. does not by its reference to Nielsen or distribution of the Nielsen Universe Estimate imply its endorsement of or concurrence with such information. In particular, we believe that we may be subject to a wider difference between the number of subscribers as estimated by Nielsen and the number of subscribers reported by our cable and satellite MSOs than is typically expected because we are not fully distributed and are sometimes carried on poorly penetrated tiers. In addition, if Nielsen modifies its methodology or changes the statistical sample it uses for these estimates, such as the demographic characteristics of the households, the size of our subscriber base and our ratings could be negatively affected resulting in a decrease in our advertising revenue. Cable and satellite service providers could discontinue or refrain from carrying The Outdoor Channel, or decide to not renew our distribution agreements, which could substantially reduce the number of viewers and harm our operating results. The success of The Outdoor Channel is dependent, in part, on our ability to enter into new carriage agreements and maintain existing agreements or arrangements with, and carriage by, satellite systems and multiple system operators’, which we refer to as MSOs, affiliated regional or individual cable systems. Although we currently have arrangements or agreements with, and are being carried by, all the largest MSOs and satellite service providers, having such relationship or agreement with a MSO does not ensure that an MSOs affiliated regional or individual cable systems will carry or continue to carry The Outdoor Channel or that the satellite service provider will carry our channel. Under our current contracts and arrangements, The Outdoor Channel typically offers satellite systems and cable MSOs, along with their cable affiliates, the right to broadcast The Outdoor Channel to their subscribers, but such contracts or arrangements do not require that The Outdoor Channel be offered to all subscribers of, or any tiers offered by, the service provider. Because certain carriage arrangements do not specify on which service levels The Outdoor Channel is carried, such as analog versus basic digital, expanded digital or specialty 18 tiers, and in which geographic markets The Outdoor Channel will be offered, we have no assurance that The Outdoor Channel will be carried and available to viewers of any particular MSO or to all satellite subscribers. In addition, if we are unable to fully comply with the terms of such agreements, the service providers could discontinue carrying The Outdoor Channel. Lastly, we are currently not under any long-term contract with some of the service providers that are currently distributing our channel. Our distribution agreements with six of the major service providers, accounting for approximately 59% of our subscriber base as of August 2006, will have terminated as of May 1, 2007. If we are unable to renew these distribution agreements, we could lose a substantial number of subscribers. If cable and satellite service providers discontinue or refrain from carrying The Outdoor Channel, or decide to not renew our distribution agreement with them, this could reduce the number of viewers and harm our operating results. We may not be able to grow our subscriber base at a sufficient rate to offset planned increased costs, decreased revenue or at all, and as a result our revenues and profitability may not increase and could decrease. A major component of our growth strategy is based on increasing the number of subscribers to our channels. Growing our subscriber base depends upon many factors, such as the success of our marketing efforts in driving consumer demand for our channels; overall growth in cable and satellite subscribers; the popularity of our programming; our ability to negotiate new carriage agreements, or amendments to, or renewals of, current carriage agreements, and maintain existing distribution; plus other factors that are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or increase the subscriber base of our channels on cable and satellite systems or that our current carriage will not decrease as a result of a number of factors or that we will be able to maintain our current subscriber fee rates. In particular, negotiations for new carriage agreements, or amendments to, or renewals of, current carriage agreements, are lengthy and complex, and we are not able to predict with any accuracy when such increases in our subscriber base may occur, if at all, of if we can maintain our current subscriber fee rates. If we are unable to grow our subscriber base, our subscriber and advertising revenues may not increase and could decrease. In addition, as we plan and prepare for such projected growth in our subscriber base, we plan to increase our expenses accordingly. If we are not able to increase our revenue to offset these increased expenses, and if our subscriber fee revenue decreases, our profitability could decrease. If we offer favorable terms or incentives to service providers in order to grow our subscriber base, our operating results may be harmed or your percentage of the Company may be diluted. Although we currently have plans to offer incentives to service providers in an attempt to increase the number of our subscribers, we may not be able to do so economically or at all. If we are unable to increase the number of our subscribers on a cost-effective basis, or if the benefits of doing so do not materialize, our business and operating results would be harmed. In particular, it may be necessary to reduce our subscriber fees in order to grow our subscriber base. In addition, if we make any upfront cash payments to service providers for an increase in our subscriber base, our cash flow could be adversely impacted, and we may incur negative cash flow for some time. In addition, if we were to make such upfront cash payments or provide other incentives to service providers, we expect to amortize such amounts ratably over the term of the agreements with the service providers. However, if a service provider terminates any such agreement prior to the expiration of the term of such agreement, then under current accounting rules we may incur a large expense in that quarter in which the agreement is terminated equal to the remaining un-amortized amounts and our operating results could accordingly be adversely affected. In addition, if we offer equity incentives, the terms and amounts of such equity may not be favorable to us or our stockholders. 19 If, in our attempt to increase our number of subscribers, we structure favorable terms or incentives with one service provider in a way that would require us to offer the same terms or incentives to all other service providers, our operating results may be harmed. Many of our existing agreements with cable and satellite service providers contain “most favored nation” clauses. These clauses typically provide that if we enter into an agreement with another service provider on more favorable terms, these terms must be offered to the existing service provider, subject to some exceptions and conditions. Future agreements with service providers may also contain similar “most favored nation” clauses. If, in our attempt to increase our number of subscribers, we reduce our subscriber fees or structure launch support fees or other incentives to effectively offer more favorable terms to any service provider, these clauses may require us to offer similar incentives to other service providers or reduce the effective subscriber fee rates that we receive from other service providers, and this could negatively affect our operating results. If our channels are placed in unpopular program packages by cable or satellite service providers, or if service fees are increased for our subscribers, the number of viewers of our channel may decline which could harm our business and operating results. We do not control the channels with which our channel is packaged by cable or satellite service providers. The placement by a cable or satellite service provider of our channel in unpopular program packages could reduce or impair the growth of the number of our viewers and subscriber fees paid by service providers to us. In addition, we do not set the prices charged by cable and satellite service providers to their subscribers when our channel is packaged with other television channels. The prices for the channel packages in which our channel is bundled may be set too high to appeal to individuals who might otherwise be interested in our network. Further, if our channel is bundled by service providers with networks that do not appeal to our viewers or is moved to packages with fewer subscribers, we may lose viewers. These factors may reduce the number of viewers of our channel, which in turn would reduce our subscriber fees and advertising revenue. Consolidation among cable and satellite operators may harm our business. Cable and satellite operators continue to consolidate, making The Outdoor Channel increasingly dependent on fewer operators. If these operators fail to carry The Outdoor Channel, use their increased distribution and bargaining power to negotiate less favorable terms of carriage or to obtain additional volume discounts, our business and operating results would suffer. We may not be able to effectively manage our future growth, and our growth may not continue, which may substantially harm our business and prospects. We have undergone rapid and significant growth in revenue and subscribers over the last several years. There are risks inherent in rapid growth and the pursuit of new strategic objectives, including among others: investment and development of appropriate infrastructure, such as facilities, information technology systems and other equipment to support a growing organization; hiring and training new management, sales and marketing, production, and other personnel and the diversion of management’s attention and resources from critical areas and existing projects; and implementing systems and procedures to successfully manage growth, such as monitoring operations, controlling costs, maintaining effective quality and service, and implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls. Although we have recently moved into our new Temecula, California broadcast facility, we expect that additional expenditures will be required as we continue to upgrade our facilities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully manage our growth, that future growth will occur or that we will be successful in managing our business objectives. We can provide no assurance that our profitability or revenues will not 20 be harmed by future changes in our business. Our operating results could be harmed if such growth does not occur, or is slower or less profitable than projected. We may not be able to secure additional national advertising accounts, and as a result, our revenues and profitability may be negatively impacted. Our ability to secure additional national advertising accounts, which generally pay higher advertising rates, depends upon the size of our audience, the popularity of our programming and the demographics of our viewers, as well as strategies taken by our competitors, strategies taken by advertisers and the relative bargaining power of advertisers. Competition for national advertising accounts and related advertising expenditures is intense. We face competition for such advertising expenditures from a variety of sources, including other cable network companies and other media. We cannot assure you that our sponsors will pay advertising rates for commercial air time at levels sufficient for us to make a profit or that we will be able to attract new advertising sponsors or increase advertising revenues. If we are unable to attract national advertising accounts in sufficient quantities, our revenues and profitability may be harmed. We have found a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting and we cannot be certain in the future that we will be able to report that our controls are without material weakness or to complete our evaluation of those controls in a timely fashion. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("Section 404"), and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement Section 404, we are required to include in our Form 10-K an annual report by our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. As of December 31, 2006, our internal control over financial reporting was ineffective due to the presence of a material weakness, as more fully described in Item 9A of this Form 10-K. We are actively working to correct this material weakness, which will continue until we are able to hire additional staff in our accounting department and successfully operate and test our controls with such staff in place. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, we may discover material weaknesses that we would then be required to disclose. We may not be able to accurately or timely report on our financial results, and we might be subject to investigation by regulatory authorities. This could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which may have an adverse effect on our stock price. In addition, all internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and presentation of financial statements. Projections of any evaluation of controls effectiveness to future periods are subject to risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. We may be required to pay additional state income taxes for past years. We are required to pay income taxes in various states in which we conduct our business operations. In the past, we had paid state income taxes only in California (where our headquarters is located) and had not paid income taxes to any other state. We have determined that we may have state income tax liability in the eight states other than California in which our gold prospecting properties are located and have filed income tax returns in those states for past years. In general, we believe any income taxes paid to states other than California will be partially offset by a refund from the State of California for income tax amounts we have overpaid to California in past years. We may, however, be limited as to the number of 21 years for which we can receive a refund from California for taxes previously paid, and we cannot predict when we would receive any such refund. In addition, because each state to which we may owe outstanding income taxes has a different methodology for calculating tax owed and a different tax rate, our aggregate state income tax liability could be greater than what we have paid to California in prior years. Our aggregate state income tax liability, on which we may owe accrued interest and penalties, could be material to our results of operations Expenses relating to programming costs are generally increasing and a number of factors can cause cost overruns and delays, and our operating results may be adversely impacted if we are not able to successfully recover the costs of developing and acquiring new programming. The average cost of programming has increased recently for the cable industry and such increases may continue. We plan to build our programming library through the acquisition of long-term broadcasting rights from third party producers, in-house production and outright acquisition of programming, and this may lead to increases in our programming costs. The development, production and editing of television programming requires a significant amount of capital and there are substantial financial risks inherent in developing and producing television programs. Actual programming and production costs may exceed their budgets. Factors such as labor disputes, death or disability of key spokespersons or program hosts, damage to film negatives, master tapes and recordings or adverse weather conditions may cause cost overruns and delay or prevent completion of a project. If we are not able to successfully recover the costs of developing or acquiring programming through increased revenues, whether the programming is produced by us or acquired from third-party producers, our business and operating results will be harmed. Our operating results may be negatively impacted if our Outdoor Channel 2 HD network is not as successful as we anticipate. In July 2005, we launched an all new, all native high definition network called Outdoor Channel 2 HD. There can be no assurance that Outdoor Channel 2 HD will not incur unexpected costs and expenses. Distribution of Outdoor Channel 2 HD will depend on successfully executing new or amended distribution agreements with cable and satellite service providers. There can be no assurance that such agreements can be made, and if they are made, that they will be on terms favorable to us or that they will not require us to grant periods of free service and/or marketing commitments to encourage carriage. The public may not adopt HD consumer television equipment in numbers sufficient to allow profits for an advertiser-supported service. Bandwidth constraints may keep Outdoor Channel 2 HD from achieving sufficient distribution from service providers to reach profitability. Competition for quality HD content may increase the costs of programming for Outdoor Channel 2 HD beyond our control or expectations. All of these factors, combined or separately, could increase costs or restrain revenue and adversely affect our operating results. Our operating results may vary significantly, and historical comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance. Our operations are influenced by many factors. These factors may cause our financial results to vary significantly in the future and our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our stock may decline. Factors that can cause our results to fluctuate include, but are not limited to: · carriage decisions of cable and satellite service providers; · demand for advertising, advertising rates and offerings of competing media; · changes in the growth rate of cable and satellite subscribers; 22 · cable and satellite service providers’ capital and marketing expenditures and their impact on programming offerings and penetration; · seasonal trends in viewer interests and activities; · pricing, service, marketing and acquisition decisions that could reduce revenues and impair quarterly financial results; · the mix of cable television and satellite-delivered programming products and services sold and the distribution channels for those products and services; · our ability to react quickly to changing consumer trends; · specific economic conditions in the cable television and related industries; and · changing regulatory requirements. Due to the foregoing and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, our revenue and operating results vary from period to period and are difficult to forecast. Our expense levels are based in significant part on our expectations of future revenue. Therefore, our failure to meet revenue expectations would seriously harm our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Further, an unanticipated decline in revenue for a particular calendar quarter may disproportionately affect our profitability because our expenses would remain relatively fixed and would not decrease correspondingly. 23 Changes to financial accounting standards or our accounting estimates may affect our reported operating results. We prepare our financial statements to conform to generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), which are subject to interpretations by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in those policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Accounting policies affecting many other aspects of our business, including rules relating to business combinations and employee stock option grants, have recently been revised or are under review. Changes to those rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. In addition, our preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires that we make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the recorded amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of those assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the recorded amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. A change in the facts and circumstances surrounding those estimates, including the interpretation of the terms and conditions of our contractual obligations, could result in a change to our estimates and could impact our operating results. If we fail to develop and distribute popular programs, our viewership would likely decline, which could cause advertising and subscriber fee revenues to decrease. Our operating results depend significantly upon the generation of advertising revenue. Our ability to generate advertising revenues is largely dependent on our Nielsen ratings, which estimates the number of viewers of The Outdoor Channel, and this directly impacts the level of interest of advertisers and rates we are able to charge. If we fail to program popular shows that maintain or increase our current number of viewers, our Nielsen ratings could decline, which in turn could cause our advertising revenue to decline and adversely impact our business and operating results. In addition, if we fail to program popular shows the number of subscribers to our channel may also decrease, resulting in a decrease in our subscriber fee and advertising revenue. The market in which we operate is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively, particularly against competitors with greater financial resources, brand recognition, marketplace presence and relationships with service providers. We compete for viewers with other pay cable television and broadcast networks, including Versus (formerly OLN), Spike TV, ESPN2 and others. If these or other competitors, many of which have substantially greater financial and operational resources than us, significantly expand their operations with respect to outdoor-related programming or their market penetration, our business could be harmed. In addition, certain technological advances, including the deployment of fiber optic cable, which are already substantially underway, are expected to allow cable systems to greatly expand their current channel capacity, which could dilute our market share and lead to increased competition for viewers from existing or new programming services. We also compete with television network companies that generally have large subscriber bases and significant investments in, and access to, competitive programming sources. In some cases, we compete with cable and satellite service providers that have the financial and technological resources to create and distribute their own television networks, such as Versus, which is owned and operated by Comcast. In order to compete for subscribers, we may be required to reduce our subscriber fee rates or pay either launch fees or marketing support or both for carriage in certain circumstances in the future which may harm our operating results and margins. We may also issue our securities from time to time in connection with our attempts for broader distribution of The Outdoor Channel and the number of such securities could be significant. We compete for advertising sales with other pay television networks, 24 broadcast networks, and local over-the-air television stations. We also compete for advertising sales with satellite and broadcast radio and the print media. We compete with other cable television networks for subscriber fees from, and affiliation agreements with, cable and satellite service providers. Actions by the Federal Communications Commission, which we refer to as the FCC, and the courts have removed certain of the impediments to entry by local telephone companies into the video programming distribution business, and other impediments could be eliminated or modified in the future. These local telephone companies may distribute programming that is competitive with the programming provided by us to cable operators. Changes in corporate governance and securities disclosure and compliance practices have increased and may continue to increase our legal compliance and financial reporting costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 required us to change or supplement some of our corporate governance and securities disclosure and compliance practices. The Securities and Exchange Commission and NASDAQ have revised, and continue to revise, their regulations and listing standards. These developments have increased, and may continue to increase, our legal compliance and financial reporting costs. We may not be able to attract new, or retain existing, members in our club organizations, and as a result our revenues and profitability may be harmed. Our ability to attract new members and retain existing members in our club organizations, GPAA and Lost Dutchman’s, depends, in part, upon our marketing efforts, including our programming on The Outdoor Channel and such other efforts as direct mail campaigns, continued sponsorship of expositions dedicated to gold prospecting, treasure hunting and related interests around the country and introductory outings held at our campsites. We cannot assure you that we will successfully attract new members or retain existing members. A decline in membership in our club organizations could harm our business and operating results. The satellite infrastructure that we use may fail or be preempted by another signal, which could impair our ability to deliver programming to our cable and satellite service providers. Our ability to deliver programming to service providers, and their subscribers, is dependent upon the satellite equipment and software that we use to work properly to distribute our programming. If this satellite system fails, or a signal with a higher priority replaces our signal, which is determined by our agreement with the owner of the satellite, we may not be able to deliver programming to our cable and satellite service provider customers and their subscribers within the time periods advertised. We have negotiated for back-up capability with our satellite provider on an in-orbit spare satellite, which provides us carriage on the back-up satellite in the event that catastrophic failure occurs on the primary satellite. Our contract provides that our main signal is subject to preemption and until the back-up satellite is in position, we could lose our signal for a period of time. A loss of our signal could harm our reputation and reduce our revenues and profits. Natural disasters and other events beyond our control could interrupt our signal. Our systems and operations may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures and similar events. They also could be subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism. Since our production facilities for The Outdoor Channel are all located in Temecula, California, the results of such events could be particularly disruptive because we do not have readily available alternative facilities from which to conduct our business. Our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our 25 facilities could result in interruptions in our services. Interruptions in our service could harm our reputation and reduce our revenues and profits. Seasonal increases or decreases in advertising revenue may negatively affect our business. Seasonal trends are likely to affect our viewership, and consequently, could cause fluctuations in our advertising revenues. Our business reflects seasonal patterns of advertising expenditures, which is common in the broadcast industry. For this reason, fluctuations in our revenues and net income could occur from period to period depending upon the availability of advertising revenues. Due, in part, to these seasonality factors, the results of any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for future periods, and our cash flows may not correlate with revenue recognition. We may be unable to access capital, or offer equity as an incentive for increased subscribers, on acceptable terms to fund our future growth and operations. Our future capital and subscriber growth requirements will depend on numerous factors, including the success of our efforts to increase advertising revenues, the amount of resources devoted to increasing distribution of The Outdoor Channel, and acquiring and producing programming for The Outdoor Channel. As a result, we could be required to raise substantial additional capital through debt or equity financing or offer equity as an incentive for increased distribution. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, or offer equity incentives for subscriber growth, the issuance of such securities could result in dilution to existing stockholders. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of debt securities, the debt securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to holders of common stock and the terms of such debt could impose restrictions on our operations. We cannot assure you that additional capital, if required, will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, or must offer equity incentives for subscriber growth, our current business strategies and plans and ability to fund future operations may be harmed. We may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of the principal members of our sales, marketing, production and management personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. Other than our CEO, Roger L. Werner, Jr., none of our employees are under contract and all of our employees are “at-will.” Any of our officers or key employees could leave at any time, and we do not have “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our employees. The competition for qualified personnel has been strong in our industry. This competition could make it more difficult to retain our key personnel and to recruit new highly qualified personnel. The loss of Perry T. Massie, our Chairman of the Board, Roger L. Werner, Jr., our CEO and President, Thomas H. Massie, our Executive Vice President, William A. Owen, our Chief Financial Officer, or Thomas E. Hornish, our COO and General Counsel, could adversely impact our business. To attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be required to grant large option or other share-based incentive awards, which may be highly dilutive to existing stockholders. We may also be required to pay significant base salaries and cash bonuses to attract and retain these individuals, which payments could harm our operating results. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel we may not be able to implement our business plan. New video recording technologies may reduce our advertising revenue. A number of new personal video recorders, such as TiVo® in the United States, have emerged in recent years. These recorders often contain features allowing viewers to watch pre-recorded programs without watching advertising. The effect of these recorders on viewing patterns and exposure to advertising could harm our operations and results if our advertisers reduce the advertising rates they are willing to pay because they believe television advertisements are less effective with these technologies. 26 Cable and satellite television programming signals have been stolen or could be stolen in the future, which reduces our potential revenue from subscriber fees and advertising. The delivery of subscription programming requires the use of conditional access technology to limit access to programming to only those who subscribe to programming and are authorized to view it. Conditional access systems use, among other things, encryption technology to protect the transmitted signal from unauthorized access. It is illegal to create, sell or otherwise distribute software or devices to circumvent conditional access technologies. However, theft of cable and satellite programming has been widely reported, and the access or “smart” cards used in cable and satellite service providers’ conditional access systems have been compromised and could be further compromised in the future. When conditional access systems are compromised, we do not receive the potential subscriber fee revenues from the cable and satellite service providers. Further, measures that could be taken by cable and satellite service providers to limit such theft are not under our control. Piracy of our copyrighted materials could reduce our revenue from subscriber fees and advertising and negatively affect our business and operating results. Because we expect to become increasingly dependent upon our intellectual property rights, our inability to protect those rights could negatively impact our ability to compete. Currently approximately 72% of programs we air (exclusive of infomercials) on The Outdoor Channel are provided by third-party television and film producers. In order to build a library of programs and programming distribution rights, we must obtain all of the necessary rights, releases and consents from the parties involved in developing a project or from the owners of the rights in a completed program. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary rights on acceptable terms, or at all, or properly maintain and document such rights. In addition, protecting our intellectual property rights by pursuing those who infringe or dilute our rights can be costly and time consuming. If we are unable to protect our portfolio of trademarks, service marks, copyrighted material and characters, trade names and other intellectual property rights, our business and our ability to compete could be harmed. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming, costly to defend and result in our loss of significant rights. Other parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us, and our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time, we receive letters alleging infringement of intellectual property rights of others. Intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay substantial damages to the party claiming infringement or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable or desirable terms, if at all. Our failure to license the proprietary rights on a timely basis would harm our business. Some of our existing stockholders can exert control over us and may not make decisions that are in the best interests of all stockholders. Our current officers, directors and greater than 5% stockholders together currently control greater than 50% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, would be able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even when a change may be in the best interests of stockholders. In addition, the interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests as a company or the interests of other stockholders. Accordingly, these stockholders could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that you would not approve. 27 The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Our stock has historically been and continues to be traded at relatively low volumes and therefore has been subject to price volatility. Various factors contribute to the volatility of our stock price, including, for example, low trading volume, quarterly variations in our financial results, increased competition and general economic and market conditions. While we cannot predict the individual effect that these factors may have on the market price of our common stock, these factors, either individually or in the aggregate, could result in significant volatility in our stock price during any given period of time. There can be no assurance that a more active trading market in our stock will develop. As a result, relatively small trades may have a significant impact on the price of our common stock. Moreover, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock often are subject to securities class action litigation. If we were the subject of such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and under Delaware law may enable our incumbent management to retain control of us and discourage or prevent a change of control that may be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, these provisions could prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions: · allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors; · establish a classified board of directors, providing that not all members of the board be elected at one time; · require a 662¤3% stockholder vote to remove a director, and only for cause; · authorize our board of directors to issue without stockholder approval blank check preferred stock that, if issued, could operate as a “poison pill” to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our board of directors; · require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit stockholder action by written consent; · establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our board of directors or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; · except as provided by law, allow only our board of directors to call a special meeting of the stockholders; and · require a 662¤3% stockholder vote to amend our certificate of incorporation or bylaws. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may, unless certain criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a prescribed period of time. 28 Technologies in the cable and satellite television industry are constantly changing, and our failure to acquire or maintain state-of-the-art technology may harm our business and competitive advantage. The technologies used in the cable and satellite television industry are rapidly evolving. Many technologies and technological standards are in development and have the potential to significantly transform the ways in which programming is created and transmitted. We cannot accurately predict the effects that implementing new technologies will have on our programming and broadcasting operations. We may be required to incur substantial capital expenditures to implement new technologies, or, if we fail to do so, may face significant new challenges due to technological advances adopted by competitors, which in turn could result in harming our business and operating results. The cable and satellite television industry is subject to substantial governmental regulation for which compliance may increase our costs and expose us to penalties for failure to comply. The cable television industry is subject to extensive legislation and regulation at the federal and local levels, and, in some instances, at the state level, and many aspects of such regulation are currently the subject of judicial proceedings and administrative or legislative proposals. Similarly, the satellite television industry is subject to federal regulation. Operating in a regulated industry increases our cost of doing business as a video programmer. The Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, to which we refer as the 1992 Cable Act, includes provisions that preclude cable operators affiliated with video programmers from favoring their programmers over competitors. The 1992 Cable Act also effectively precludes such programmers from selling their programming exclusively to cable operators. These provisions potentially benefit independent programmers such as us by limiting the ability of cable operators affiliated with programmers from carrying only programming in which they have an ownership interest and from offering exclusive programming arrangements. However, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit vacated the FCC rule limiting the carriage of affiliated programmers by cable operators. Although the FCC issued further notices of proposed rulemaking in 2001 and 2005 addressing this issue, it has not adopted new rules. The exclusivity provision is scheduled to expire in October 2007, but the FCC has initiated a rulemaking proceeding to determine if a further extension is necessary to protect competition and diversity. Regulatory carriage requirements also could reduce the channel capacity available to carry The Outdoor Channel. The 1992 Cable Act granted television broadcasters a choice of must-carry rights or retransmission consent rights. The rules adopted by the FCC generally provide for mandatory carriage by cable systems of all local full-power commercial television broadcast signals selecting must-carry rights and, depending on a cable system’s channel capacity, non-commercial television broadcast signals. Such statutorily mandated carriage of broadcast stations, coupled with the provisions of the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, which require cable television systems with 36 or more “activated” channels to reserve a percentage of such channels for commercial use by unaffiliated third parties and permit franchise authorities to require the cable operator to provide channel capacity, equipment and facilities for public, educational and government access channels, could reduce carriage of The Outdoor Channel by limiting its carriage in cable systems with limited channel capacity. In 2001, the FCC adopted rules relating to the cable carriage of digital television signals. Among other things, the rules clarify that a digital-only television station can assert a right to analog or digital carriage on a cable system. The FCC initiated a further proceeding to determine whether television broadcasters may assert the rights to carriage of both analog and digital signals during the transition to digital television and to carriage of all digital signals. In 2005, the FCC decided that television broadcasters do not have such additional must-carry rights. Broadcasters formally have requested that the FCC reconsider this decision and are seeking legislative change to require such carriage. In June 2006, this matter was scheduled to be heard by the FCC at its open meeting, but was removed from the agenda without discussion. The imposition of such 29 additional must-carry regulation, in conjunction with any limited cable system channel capacity, would increase the likelihood that cable operators may be forced to drop some cable programming services and could reduce carriage of The Outdoor Channel. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 required the FCC to establish rules and an implementation schedule to ensure that video programming is fully accessible to the hearing impaired through closed captioning. The rules adopted by the FCC require substantial closed captioning over a six to ten year phase-in period, which began in 2000, with only limited exemptions. As a result, we will continue to incur additional costs for closed captioning. Failure to meet these closed captioning requirements could cause a service provider to discontinue carrying The Outdoor Channel and result in regulatory action by the FCC. If we distribute television programming through other types of media, we may be required to obtain federal, state and local licenses or other authorizations to offer such services. We may not be able to obtain licenses or authorizations in a timely manner, or at all, or conditions could be imposed upon licenses and authorizations that may not be favorable to us. In the future, increased regulation of rates could, among other things, put downward pressure on the rates charged by cable programming services, and affect the ability or willingness of cable system operators to retain or to add The Outdoor Channel network on their cable systems. In addition, government-mandated a la carte carriage or small tiers of channels by cable system operators could adversely impact our viewership levels if The Outdoor Channel is sold a la carte or moved to such a tier. In response to a request from the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, the FCC’s Media Bureau conducted a study in 2004 regarding, among other things, government-mandated a la carte or mini-tier packaging of programming services in which each subscriber would purchase only those channels that he or she desired instead of the larger bundles of different channels as is typical today. The Media Bureau’s report in 2004 observed that such packaging would increase the cost of programming to consumers and injure programmers. On February 9, 2006, the Media Bureau released a further report which stated that the 2004 report was flawed and which concluded that a-la-carte sales could be in the best interests of consumers. Although the FCC cannot mandate a-al-carte sales, its endorsement of the concept could encourage Congress to consider proposals to mandate a-ala-carte sales or otherwise seek to impose greater regulatory controls on how cable programming is sold. If, in response to any statue enacted by Congress, or any rate or other government regulation, cable system operators implement channel offerings that require subscribers to affirmatively choose to pay a separate fee to receive The Outdoor Channel, either by itself or in combination with a limited number of other channels, the number of viewers for The Outdoor Channel could be reduced. The regulation of programming services, cable television systems and satellite licensees is subject to the political process and has been in constant flux over the past decade. Further material changes in the law and regulatory requirements are difficult to anticipate and our business may be harmed by future legislation, new regulation, deregulation or court decisions interpreting laws and regulations. We must comply with many local, states, federal and environmental regulations, for which compliance may be costly and may expose us to substantial penalties. Our recreational outdoor activity entities, GPAA and Lost Dutchman’s, share the general risks of all outdoor recreational activities such as personal injury, environmental compliance and real estate and environmental regulation. In addition to the general cable television industry regulations, we are also subject to various local, state and federal regulations, including, without limitation, regulations promulgated by federal and state environmental, health and labor agencies. Our prospecting clubs are subject to various local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, development and other utilization of their properties. We cannot predict what impact current or future regulations may have on these businesses. In addition, failure to maintain required permits or licenses, or 30 to comply with applicable regulations, could result in substantial fines or costs or revocation of our operating licenses, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. If our goodwill becomes impaired, we will be required to take a non-cash charge which could have a significant effect on our reported net earnings. A significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, or SFAS 142, we test goodwill for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year, and on an interim date if factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim test. A significant downward revision in the present value of estimated future cash flows for a reporting unit could result in an impairment of goodwill under SFAS 142 and a non-cash charge would be required. Such a charge could have a significant effect on our reported net earnings. Future issuance by us of preferred shares could adversely affect the holders of existing shares, and therefore reduce the value of existing shares. We are authorized to issue up to 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The issuance of any preferred stock could adversely affect the rights of the holders of shares of our common stock, and therefore reduce the value of such shares. No assurance can be given that we will not issue shares of preferred stock in the future. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will also depend on our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Furthermore, at the time of any potential payment of a cash dividend we may subject to contractual restrictions on, or prohibitions against, the payment of dividends. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 