ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. When evaluating our company and its subsidiaries, you should consider carefully the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report. These risk factors could materially adversely affect our actual results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. We may also be materially harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. If any of the following occurs, our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects could be materially negatively impacted. In addition, the trading price of our securities could substantially decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning our company set forth in the Annual Report, including, without limitation, the information set forth in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” In this section, when we state that a risk or uncertainty may, could or will have a “material adverse effect” on us or may, could or will materially adversely affect us we mean that the risk or uncertainty may, could or will have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition, prospects and/or the market prices of our securities. RISKS RELATING TO THE MERGER The pendency of our agreement to be acquired by Kroenke Sports & Entertainment could have an adverse effect on our business. On March 13, 2013, we entered into the KSE Merger Agreement with Kroenke Sports & Entertainment, LLC and KSE Merger Sub, Inc. Under the terms of the KSE Merger Agreement, at the closing, Merger Sub will merge with and into us, and we will survive the merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of KSE (the “KSE Merger”). Following the closing, our shares will no longer be listed for trading on NASDAQ. 11 Table of Contents The execution of the KSE Merger Agreement followed the determination by our Board of Directors that the terms of the KSE proposal constituted a Superior Proposal under the terms of the InterMedia Merger Agreement by and among Outdoor Channel, InterMedia Outdoors Holdings, LLC, InterMedia Outdoor Holdings, Inc. and certain of its indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries. Prior to entering into the KSE Merger Agreement, we terminated the InterMedia Merger Agreement and paid InterMedia a termination fee of $6.5 million as required by the terms of the InterMedia Merger Agreement. The announcement and pendency of the acquisition by KSE could cause disruption in the business, including experiencing (i) the potential loss or disruption of customer, vendor or other commercial relationships prior to the completion of the merger, including, but not limited to, as a result of the merger or their potential unwillingness to do business with KSE, or (ii) a potential negative effect on our ability to retain management, sales and other key personnel as a result of the announcement of the KSE Merger. Such disruptions may continue to occur through the closing of the KSE Merger. The KSE Merger Agreement generally requires us to operate our business in the ordinary course of business pending consummation of the KSE Merger, but includes certain contractual restrictions on the conduct of our business. In addition, the pendency of the acquisition by KSE and the completion of the conditions to closing could divert the time and attention of our management. All of the matters described above, alone or in combination, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Failure to complete the KSE Merger could negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results. If the KSE Merger is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and we would be subject to a number of risks, including the following: • the current market price of our common stock reflects a market assumption that a business combination will occur, and a failure to complete a transaction with KSE could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock; • matters relating to the KSE Merger may require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management, which would otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us as an independent company; • if the KSE Merger is not consummated under certain circumstances we may be required to pay KSE $1.0 million, and in each circumstance such fees will be in addition to the significant costs, including legal, accounting and advisory fees relating the proposed transaction, which must be paid even if a business combination with KSE is not completed; and • our Board of Directors will likely need to pursue a different strategic path in the near-term prior to pursuing any alternative strategic transaction, which may require raising additional capital. There is no guarantee that capital will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Furthermore, attempting to complete a different strategic transaction could prove to be costly and time-consuming, and we cannot make any assurances that any future strategic transaction will occur on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 12 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that the risks described above will not materialize, and if any of them do, they may adversely affect our business, operating results and stock price. Possible litigation relating to the KSE Merger could prevent or delay the closing of the KSE Merger or otherwise negatively impact our business and operations. Within the last two months, two lawsuits seeking class action status challenging the InterMedia merger were filed in the Superior Court of Riverside County, State of California, against the Company, InterMedia Outdoors Holdings, LLC, InterMedia Outdoor Holdings, Inc. and certain of its indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, and our Board of Directors. The complaints name as primary defendants the members of our Board of Directors and generally allege that the directors violated the fiduciary duties owed to the Company’s stockholders by approving the InterMedia Merger Agreement with InterMedia. The complaints allege that the board members engaged in an unfair process, agreed to unfair deal terms, and agreed to a price that allegedly fails to maximize value for stockholders. The complaints further allege that the other named defendants aided and abetted the purported breach of those fiduciary duties. The complaints seek, various forms of relief, including injunctive relief that would have, if granted, prevented the completion of the InterMedia merger and an award of attorneys’ fees and expenses. Given the Company’s announcement of the KSE Merger Agreement and termination of the InterMedia Merger Agreement, we believe these specific lawsuits have, for all intents and purposes, been rendered moot. It is possible, however, that plaintiffs in these lawsuits may seek to amend their complaints to assert new claims or that additional lawsuits may be filed against us asserting similar or different claims with respect to the KSE Merger Agreement. For more detailed information concerning this litigation, see Item 3 – Legal Proceedings. INDUSTRY RISKS AND RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS Distributors could discontinue or refrain from carrying Outdoor Channel, or decide to not renew our distribution agreements, which could substantially reduce the number of viewers and harm our business and operating results. Consolidation among cable and satellite operators has given the largest operators considerable leverage in their relationships with programmers, including us. The success of Outdoor Channel is dependent, in part, on our ability to enter into new carriage agreements and maintain or renew existing agreements or arrangements with, and carriage by, satellite systems, telephone companies, which we refer to as telcos, and cable multiple system operators, which we refer to as “MSO”s, affiliated regional or individual cable systems. Although we currently have arrangements or agreements with, and are being carried by, all the largest MSOs, satellite and telco service providers, having such relationship or agreement with an MSO does not always ensure that an MSO’s affiliated regional or individual cable systems will carry or continue to carry Outdoor Channel or that the satellite or telco service provider will carry our channel. Under our current contracts and arrangements, our subsidiary TOC typically offers the distributors the right to broadcast Outdoor Channel to their subscribers, but not all such contracts or arrangements require that Outdoor Channel be offered to all subscribers of, or any tiers offered by, the distributor or a specific minimum number of subscribers. Because many of our carriage arrangements do not specify on which service levels Outdoor Channel is carried, such as basic versus digital basic, expanded digital or specialty tiers, or in which geographic markets Outdoor Channel will be offered, in many cases we have no assurance that Outdoor Channel will be carried and available to viewers of any particular distributor. In addition, under the terms of some of our agreements, the distributors could decide to discontinue carrying Outdoor Channel. A failure to secure a renewal of our agreements or a renewal on less favorable terms may result in a loss of a substantial number of subscribers, which in turn would reduce our subscriber fees and advertising revenue and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. If our channel is placed in unpopular program packages by our distributors, or if service fees are increased for our subscribers, the number of viewers of our channel may decline which could harm our business and operating results. We do not control the channels with which our channel is packaged by providers. The placement by a distributor of our channel in unpopular program packages could reduce or impair the growth of the number of our viewers and subscriber fees paid by distributors to us. In addition, we do not set the prices charged by the distributors to their subscribers when our channel is packaged with other television channels or offered by itself. The prices for the channel packages in which our channel is bundled, or the price for our channel by itself, may be set too high to appeal to individuals who might otherwise be interested in our network. Further, if our channel is bundled by distributors with networks that do not appeal to our viewers or is moved to packages with fewer subscribers, we may lose viewers. These factors may reduce the number of subscribers and/or viewers of our channel, which in turn would reduce our subscriber fees and advertising revenue. 13 Table of Contents If our viewership declines for any reason, or we fail to develop and distribute popular programs, our advertising and subscriber fee revenues could decrease. Our viewership is a critical factor affecting both (i) the volume and pricing of advertising revenue that we receive, and (ii) the extent of distribution and subscriber fees we receive under agreements with our distributors. Our advertising revenues are largely dependent on both our ability to consistently create and acquire content and programming that meet the changing preferences of viewers in general and viewers in our target demographic category and our Nielsen ratings, which estimates the number of viewers of Outdoor Channel, thus impacting the level of interest of advertisers and rates we are able to charge. We do not control the methodology used by Nielsen for these estimates, and estimates regarding Outdoor Channel’s subscriber base made by Nielsen is theirs alone and does not represent opinions, forecasts or predictions of Outdoor Channel Holdings or its management. In addition, if Nielsen modifies its methodology or changes the statistical sample it uses for these estimates, such as the demographic characteristics of the households, the size of our subscriber base and our ratings could be negatively affected resulting in a decrease in our advertising revenue. Our viewership and ratings are also affected by the quality and acceptance of competing programs and other content offered by other networks, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, including, general economic conditions, piracy, digital and on-demand distribution and growing competition for consumer discretionary spending. Any decline in our ratings and viewership could cause our advertising revenue to decline and adversely impact our business and operating results. In addition, the number of subscribers to our channel may also decrease, resulting in a decrease in our subscriber fee and advertising revenue. Expenses relating to programming and production costs are generally increasing and a number of factors can cause cost overruns and delays, and our operating results may be adversely impacted if we are not able to successfully recover the costs of developing, acquiring and producing new programming. The average cost of programming has increased for the pay TV industry and production companies, and such increases are likely to continue. We plan to build our programming library through the acquisition of long-term broadcasting rights from third-party producers, in-house production and outright acquisition of programming, and this may lead to increases in our programming costs. The development, production and editing of television programming requires a significant amount of capital and there are substantial financial risks inherent in developing and producing television programs. Actual programming and production costs may exceed their budgets. Factors such as labor disputes, death or disability of key spokespersons or program hosts, damage to master tapes and recordings or adverse weather conditions may cause cost overruns and delay or prevent completion of a project. If we are not able to successfully recover the costs of developing or acquiring programming through increased revenues, whether the programming is produced by us or acquired from third-party producers, our business and operating results will be harmed. We may not be able to grow our subscriber base of Outdoor Channel at a sufficient rate to offset planned increased costs, decreased revenue or at all, and as a result our revenues and profitability may not increase and could decrease. A major component of our financial growth strategy is based on increasing the number of subscribers to our channel. Growing our subscriber base depends upon many factors, such as the success of our marketing efforts in driving consumer demand for our channel; overall growth in cable, satellite and telco subscribers; the popularity of our programming; our ability to negotiate new carriage agreements, or amendments to, or renewals of, current carriage agreements, and maintenance of existing distribution; plus other factors that are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or increase the subscriber base of our channel on cable, satellite and telco systems or that our current carriage will not decrease as a result of a number of factors or that we will be able to maintain our current subscriber fee rates. In particular, negotiations for new carriage agreements, or amendments to, or renewals of, current carriage agreements, are lengthy and complex, and we are not able to predict with any accuracy when such increases in our subscriber base may occur, if at all, or if we can maintain our current subscriber fee rates. If we are unable to grow our subscriber base or we reduce our subscriber fee rates, our subscriber and advertising revenues may not increase and could decrease. In addition, as we plan and prepare for such projected growth in our subscriber base, we plan to increase our expenses accordingly. If we are not able to increase our revenue to offset these increased expenses, and if our subscriber fee revenue decreases, our profitability could decrease. If we offer favorable terms or incentives to distributors in order to grow our subscriber base, our operating results may be harmed. Although we currently have plans to offer incentives to distributors in an attempt to increase the number of our subscribers, we may not be able to do so economically or at all. If we are unable to increase the number of our subscribers on a cost-effective basis, or if the benefits of doing so do not materialize, our business and operating results would be harmed. In particular, it may be necessary to reduce our subscriber fees in order to grow or maintain our subscriber base. Also, if we make any upfront cash payments to distributors for an increase in our subscriber base, our cash flow could be adversely impacted, and we may incur negative cash flow for some time. In addition, if we were to make such upfront cash payments or provide other incentives to distributors, we expect to amortize such amounts ratably over the term of the agreements with the distributors. However, if a distributor terminates any such agreement prior to the expiration of the term of such agreement, then under current accounting rules, we may incur a large expense in the quarter in which the agreement is terminated equal to the remaining un-amortized amounts and our operating results could accordingly be adversely affected. Lastly, if we offer equity incentives, the terms and amounts of such equity may not be favorable to us or our stockholders. 14 Table of Contents We may not be able to secure sufficient or additional advertising revenue, and as a result, our profitability may be negatively impacted. Our ability to secure additional advertising accounts relating to our Outdoor Channel operations depends upon the size of our audience, the popularity of our programming and the demographics of our viewers, as well as strategies taken by our competitors, strategies taken by advertisers and the relative bargaining power of advertisers. Competition for advertising accounts and related advertising expenditures is intense. We face competition for such advertising expenditures from a variety of sources, including other networks and other media. We cannot assure you that our sponsors will pay advertising rates for commercial air time at levels sufficient for us to make a profit or that we will be able to attract new advertising sponsors or increase advertising revenues. If we are unable to attract advertising accounts in sufficient quantities, our revenues and profitability may be harmed. In addition, for some of our third party produced programming, we may enter into agreements to absorb the production costs of a program and retain the rights to sell the advertising in, or sponsorships relating to, such programming. If we are not able to sell sufficient advertising or sponsorships relating to such programs, we may lose money in such project, and our operating results may be significantly harmed. If, in our attempt to increase our number of subscribers, we structure favorable terms or incentives with one distributor in a way that would require us to offer the same terms or incentives to all other distributors, our operating results may be harmed. Many of our existing agreements with distributors contain “most-favored nation” clauses. These clauses typically provide that if we enter into an agreement with another distributor on more favorable terms, these terms must be offered to the existing distributor, subject to some exceptions and conditions. Future agreements with distributors may also contain similar “most-favored nation” clauses. If, in our attempt to increase our number of subscribers, we reduce our subscriber fees or structure launch support fees or other incentives to effectively offer more favorable terms to any distributor, these clauses may require us to offer similar incentives to other distributors or reduce the effective subscriber fee rates that we receive from other distributors, and this could negatively affect our operating results. The market in which we operate has become increasingly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively, particularly against competitors with greater financial resources, brand recognition, marketplace presence and relationships with distributors. The outdoor entertainment and programming genre in which we operate has become increasingly competitive. We compete for viewers, distribution and advertising with other established pay television and broadcast networks, including Pursuit, The Sportsman Channel, Spike TV, NBC Sports, ESPN and others. If these or other competitors, many of which have substantially greater financial and operational resources than us, significantly expand their operations with respect to outdoor-related programming or their market penetration, our business could be harmed. In addition, certain technological advances, including the deployment of fiber optic cable, which are already substantially underway, are expected to allow systems to greatly expand both their current channel and broadband distribution capacities, and increase transmission speed, which could dilute our market share and lead to increased competition for viewers from existing or new programming services. In addition, the satellite and telco operators generally have more bandwidth capacity than cable service operators allowing them to possibly provide more channels offering the type of programming we offer. 15 Table of Contents We also compete with television network companies that generally have large subscriber bases and significant investments in, and access to, competitive programming sources. In some cases, we compete with distributors that have the financial and technological resources to create and distribute their own television networks, such as NBC Sports, which is owned and operated by Comcast. In order to compete for subscribers, we may be required to reduce our subscriber fee rates or pay either launch fees or marketing support or both for carriage in certain circumstances in the future which may harm our operating results and margins. We may also issue our securities from time to time in connection with our attempts for broader distribution of Outdoor Channel and the number of such securities could be significant. We compete for advertising sales with other pay television networks, broadcast networks, and local over-the-air television stations. We also compete for advertising sales with satellite and broadcast radio and the print media. We compete with other networks for subscriber fees from, and affiliation agreements with distributors. In addition, we face competition in our Aerial Cameras operations. In particular, there are a few other domestic and international aerial camera services with which we compete. If any of these competitors were able to invent improved technology, or we are not able to prevent them from obtaining and using our proprietary technology and trade secrets, our business and operating results, as well as our future growth prospects, could be negatively affected. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors, or that increasing competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in consumer behavior resulting from new technologies and distribution platforms may impact the performance of our businesses. Our business is focused on television, and we face emerging competition from other providers of digital media, some of which have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. In particular, programming offered over the Internet has become more prevalent as the speed and quality of broadband networks have improved. Providers such as Hulu, Netflix, Apple TV, Amazon and Google TV are aggressively working to establish themselves as alternative providers of video services. These services and the growing availability of online content, coupled with an expanding market for connected devices and internet-connected televisions, may impact our traditional distribution methods for our services and content. Additionally, devices that allow users to view television programs on a time-shifted basis and technologies that enable users to fast-forward or skip programming have caused changes in consumer behavior that may affect the attractiveness of our offerings to advertisers and could therefore adversely affect our revenues. If we cannot ensure that our distribution methods and content are responsive to our target audiences, our business could be adversely affected. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming, costly to defend and result in our loss of significant rights. Other parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us, and our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time, we receive letters alleging infringement of intellectual property rights of others. Intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay substantial damages to the party claiming infringement or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable or desirable terms, if at all. Our failure to license the proprietary rights on a timely basis would harm our business. Because we expect to become increasingly dependent upon our intellectual property rights, our inability to protect those rights could negatively impact our ability to compete. We currently produce and own approximately 20% of the programs we air annually on Outdoor Channel (exclusive of infomercials). In order to build a library of programs and programming distribution rights, we must obtain all of the necessary rights, releases and consents from the parties involved in developing a project or from the owners of the rights in a completed program. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary rights on acceptable terms, or at all or properly maintain and document such rights. We also possess significant proprietary information relating to our aerial camera services. Protecting our intellectual property rights by pursuing those who infringe or dilute our rights can be costly and time consuming. If we are unable to protect our portfolio of patents, trademarks, service marks, copyrighted material and characters, trade names and other intellectual property rights, our business and our ability to compete could be harmed. 16 Table of Contents We may not be able to maintain sufficient revenue relating to our production business to offset its fixed costs, and as a result, our profitability may decrease. Some of the costs relating to our acquired production operations cannot be immediately reduced for various reasons, particularly because some of such costs relate to long-term contracts. As a result, if the projected revenue from such operations is not generated, we may not be able to react quickly enough to decrease our expenses to sufficiently offset the decreased revenue, and as a result we may not be as profitable as we currently project, if at all. Continued consolidation among distributors may harm our business. Distributors continue to consolidate, making us increasingly dependent on fewer distributors. If these distributors fail to carry Outdoor Channel, use their increased distribution and bargaining power to negotiate less favorable terms of carriage or to obtain additional volume discounts, our business and operating results would suffer. Increased competition and demand in price for the carriage of local broadcast networks may limit our ability to add subscribers. Many of the local broadcast networks that had previously been transmitted free, over-the-air, to the viewers, or provided to the pay television distributors for little to no cost, have recently been demanding substantial increased pricing for the retransmission of their signals by the pay television distributors. If the distributors continue to be required to pay more for the retransmission of such local broadcast networks, this may limit the ability of such distributors to carry other channels such as the Outdoor Channel, thus limiting our ability to add subscribers and possibly even causing a decrease in the number of our subscribers. If our goodwill becomes impaired, we will be required to recognize a noncash charge which could have a significant effect on our reported net earnings. A significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill. We test goodwill for impairment on October 1 of each year, and on an interim date if factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim test. A significant downward revision in the present value of estimated future cash flows for a reporting unit could result in an impairment of goodwill and a noncash charge would be required. Such a charge could have a significant effect on our reported net earnings. Technologies in the pay television industry are constantly changing, and our failure to acquire or maintain state-of-the-art technology or adapt our business model may harm our business and competitive advantage. Technology in the video, telecommunications and data services industry is changing rapidly. Many technologies and technological standards are in development and have the potential to significantly transform the ways in which programming is created and transmitted. We cannot accurately predict the effects that implementing new technologies will have on our programming and broadcasting operations. We may be required to incur substantial capital expenditures to implement new technologies, or, if we fail to do so, may face significant new challenges due to technological advances adopted by competitors, which in turn could result in harming our business and operating results. We could have an aerial camera fall, harming our reputation and possibly causing damage exceeding our liability insurance limits. The cables or rigging supporting our aerial cameras could fail for a variety of reasons, causing an aerial camera to drop onto the venue in which it is suspended. If such an event were to happen, damages could be significant which may have an adverse effect on our ability to continue our aerial camera business. In addition, if the damages caused by such event exceed our liability and property damage insurance, such an event could have a detrimental effect on our financial position and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents The cable, satellite and telco television industry is subject to substantial governmental regulation for which compliance may increase our costs, hinder our growth and possibly expose us to penalties for failure to comply. The pay television industry is subject to extensive legislation and regulation at the federal and local levels, and, in some instances, at the state level, and many aspects of such regulation are currently the subject of judicial proceedings and administrative or legislative proposals. Similarly, the satellite television industry is subject to federal regulation. Operating in a regulated industry increases our cost of doing business as a video programmer, and such regulation may in some cases also hinder our ability to increase our distribution. The regulation of programming services is subject to the political process and has been in constant flux over the past decade. Further, material changes in the law and regulatory requirements are difficult to anticipate and our business may be harmed by future legislation, new regulation, deregulation or court decisions interpreting laws and regulations. A deterioration in general economic conditions along with seasonal increases or decreases in advertising revenue may negatively affect our business. A slowing economy or recession may impact pay television subscriptions, which could lead to a decrease in our subscription fees and may reduce the rates we can charge for advertising. We derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on our network. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical and seasonal, reflecting overall economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. Moreover, seasonal trends are likely to affect our viewership, and consequently, could cause fluctuations in our advertising revenues. For this reason, fluctuations in our revenues and net income could occur from period to period depending upon the availability of advertising revenues and also on economic conditions. Consequently, the results of any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for future periods, and our cash flows may not correlate with revenue recognition. Our expansion into international operations has inherent risks, including currency exchange rate fluctuations, possible governmental seizure of property, and our inability or increased costs associated with enforcing our rights, including intellectual property rights. We have international operations relating to our aerial camera services and our outdoor programming internationally. In some countries, we may be able to do business only in that country’s currency which may cause us to accept the risk relating to that country’s currency exchange rate. In addition, we may not be able to legally enforce our contractual and property (including but not limited to our intellectual property) rights in such countries, and even if a country is party to an international treaty relating to such legal procedures, the cost of doing so may be prohibitive. Cable, satellite and telco television programming signals have been stolen or could be stolen in the future, which reduces our potential revenue from subscriber fees and advertising. The delivery of subscription programming requires the use of conditional access technology to limit access to programming to only those who subscribe to programming and are authorized to view it. Conditional access systems use, among other things, encryption technology to protect the transmitted signal from unauthorized access. It is illegal to create, sell or otherwise distribute software or devices to circumvent conditional access technologies. However, theft of programming has been widely reported, and the access or “smart” cards used in distributors’ conditional access systems have been compromised and could be further compromised in the future. When conditional access systems are compromised, we do not receive the potential subscriber fee revenues from the distributors. Further, measures that could be taken by distributors to limit such theft are not under our control. Piracy of our copyrighted materials could reduce our revenue from subscriber fees and advertising and negatively affect our business and operating results. We may be unable to access capital, or offer equity as an incentive for increased subscribers or for acquisitions, on acceptable terms to fund our future growth and operations. Our future capital and subscriber growth requirements will depend on numerous factors, including the success of our efforts to increase advertising revenues, the amount of resources devoted to increasing distribution of Outdoor Channel, acquiring and producing programming and our aerial camera business. As a result, we could be required to raise substantial additional capital through debt or equity financing or offer equity as an incentive for increased distribution or in connection with an acquisition. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, or offer equity incentives for subscriber growth or acquisitions, the issuance of such securities could result in dilution to existing 18 Table of Contents stockholders. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of debt securities, the debt securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to holders of common stock and the terms of such debt could impose restrictions on our operations. We cannot assure you that additional capital, if required, will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, or offer equity incentives for subscriber growth or acquisitions, our current business strategies and plans and ability to fund future operations may be harmed. The satellite infrastructure that we use may fail or be preempted by another signal, which could impair our ability to deliver programming to our distributors. Our ability to deliver programming to distributors, and their subscribers, is dependent upon the satellite equipment and software that we use to work properly to distribute our programming. If this satellite system fails, or a signal with a higher priority replaces our signal, which is determined by our agreement with the owner of the satellite, we could lose our signal for a period of time. A loss of our signal could harm our reputation and reduce our revenues and profits. RISKS RELATING TO OUR STOCK The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Our stock has historically been and continues to be traded at relatively low volumes and therefore has been subject to price volatility. Various factors contribute to the volatility of our stock price, including, for example, low trading volume, quarterly variations in our financial results, increased competition and general economic and market conditions. While we cannot predict the individual effect that these factors may have on the market price of our common stock, these factors, either individually or in the aggregate, could result in significant volatility in our stock price during any given period of time. There can be no assurance that a more active trading market in our stock will develop. As a result, relatively small trades may have a significant impact on the price of our common stock. Moreover, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock often are subject to securities class action litigation. If we were the subject of such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Some of our existing stockholders can exert control over us and may not make decisions that are in the best interests of all stockholders. Our current officers, directors and greater than 5% stockholders together currently control a very high percentage of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, may be able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even when a change may be in the best interests of stockholders. In addition, the interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests as a company or the interests of other stockholders. Accordingly, these stockholders could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that you would not approve. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and under Delaware law may enable our incumbent management to retain control of us and discourage or prevent a change of control that may be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, these provisions could prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions: • allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors; • establish a classified board of directors, providing that not all members of the board be elected at one time; • require a 66 2/3% stockholder vote to remove a director, and only for cause; • authorize our board of directors to issue without stockholder approval blank check preferred stock that, if issued, could operate as a “poison pill” to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our board of directors; • require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit stockholder action by written consent; 19 Table of Contents • establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our board of directors or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; • except as provided by law, allow only our board of directors to call a special meeting of the stockholders; and • require a 66 2/3% stockholder vote to amend our certificate of incorporation or bylaws. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may, unless certain criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a prescribed period of time. Future issuance by us of preferred shares could adversely affect the holders of existing shares, and therefore reduce the value of existing shares. We are authorized to issue up to 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The issuance of any preferred stock could adversely affect the rights of the holders of shares of our common stock, and therefore reduce the value of such shares. No assurance can be given that we will not issue shares of preferred stock in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 