Item 1a. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves risks. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this report, including our consolidated financial statements with related notes and documents incorporated by reference. If any of the following risks or other risks, which have not been identified or which we may believe are immaterial or unlikely, actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our recent results may not be indicative of future results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not be able to grow our business at all. Various factors, such as poor economic conditions, changes in interest rates, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition may also impede or inhibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to a high percentage of our operating costs being fixed expenses. Our directors and executive officers own a significant portion of our common stock and can influence shareholder decisions. Our directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially owned approximately 53% of the Company’s outstanding common stock as of February 28, 2006. As a result of their ownership, the directors and executive officers have the ability, by voting their shares in concert, to influence the outcome of any matter submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. The directors and executive officers may vote to cause the Company to take actions with which our other shareholders do not agree. Adverse changes in economic conditions, especially in the State of Oklahoma, could have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, and profitability. Our bank subsidiary operates exclusively within the State of Oklahoma, and as a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to changes in the economic conditions in such state. Our continued success is largely dependent upon the continued growth of the communities we serve. A decline in the growth of these communities could negatively impact our net income and profitability. Additionally, declines in the economies of these communities and of the State of Oklahoma in general could affect our ability to generate new loans or to receive repayments of existing loans, adversely affecting our financial condition. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. We face vigorous competition from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies and credit unions. A number of these banks and other financial institutions have substantially greater resources and lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services. To a limited extent, we also compete with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies. When new competitors seek to enter one of our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, they sometimes undercut the pricing and/or credit terms prevalent in that market. This competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking and trust services, reduce our market share and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If Regulation Q is repealed and financial institutions are allowed to pay interest on demand deposits, competitive pressures might cause the Company’s subsidiary bank to pay interest on demand deposits. Since the Company has a higher than average level of demand deposits, paying interest on demand deposits would have a negative impact on the Company’s net interest margin. 14 Table of Contents The Company’s concentration of real estate loans is subject to the local real estate market in which it operates. Loans secured by real estate have been a large portion of the Company’s loan portfolio. In 2005, this percentage was 60.0%. The Company is subject to risk of future market fluctuations in property values relating to these loans. The Company attempts to manage this risk through rigorous loan underwriting standards, training of loan officers and close monitoring of the valuation of individual properties collateralizing the loan. We rely heavily on our management team, and the unexpected loss of key managers may adversely affect our operations. Our success to date has been strongly influenced by our ability to attract and to retain senior management experienced in banking and financial services. Our ability to retain executive officers and the current management teams of each of our lines of business will continue to be important to successful implementation of our strategies. We do not have employment or non-compete agreements with these key employees. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. There can be no assurance that the integration of our acquisitions will be successful or will not result in unforeseen difficulties that may absorb significant management attention. Our completed acquisitions, or any future acquisition, may not produce the revenue, earnings or synergies that we anticipated. The process of integrating acquired companies into our business may also result in unforeseen difficulties. Unforeseen operating difficulties may absorb significant management attention, which we might otherwise devote to our existing business. Also, the process may require significant financial resources that we might otherwise allocate to other activities, including the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations. If we pursue a future acquisition, our management could spend a significant amount of time and effort identifying and completing the acquisition. If we make a future acquisition, we could issue equity securities which would dilute current stockholders’ percentage ownership, incur substantial debt, assume contingent liabilities, incur a one-time charge or be required to record an impairment of goodwill, or any combination of the foregoing. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud could harm our business. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management and our auditors to evaluate and assess the effectiveness of our internal controls. These Sarbanes-Oxley requirements may be modified, supplemented or amended from time to time. Implementing these changes may take a significant amount of time and may require specific compliance training of our personnel. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. If we or our auditors discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. We may not be able to effectively and timely implement necessary control changes and employee training to ensure continued compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other regulatory and reporting requirements. Our historic growth and our planned expansion through acquisitions present challenges to maintain the internal control and disclosure control standards applicable to public companies. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and sanctions, our ability to recognize revenue could be impaired and investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. We cannot assure you that we will be able to fully comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or that management or our auditors will conclude that our internal controls are effective in future periods. 15 Table of Contents Maintaining or increasing our market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and consumer demand. There is increasing pressure on financial services companies to provide products and services at lower prices. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including Internet-based services, could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our existing products or services. A failure to achieve market acceptance of any new products we introduce, or a failure to introduce products that the market may demand, could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability, or growth prospects. We have businesses other than banking. In addition to commercial banking services, we provide life and other insurance products, as well as other business and financial services. We may in the future develop or acquire other non-banking businesses. As a result of other such businesses, our earnings could be subject to risks and uncertainties that are different from those to which our commercial banking services are subject. We have a continuing need for technological change. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations as we continue to grow and expand our market area. Many of our larger competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. As a result, they may be able to offer additional or superior products to those that we will be able to offer, which would put us at a competitive disadvantage. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing such products and services to our customers. Our stockholder rights plan, amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as well as provisions of Oklahoma law, could make it difficult for a third party to acquire our company. We have a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited takeover proposals. The rights issued under the stockholder rights plan would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our board of directors. In addition, Oklahoma corporate law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contain provisions that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company or our management. Together, these provisions may discourage transactions that otherwise could provide for the payment of a premium over prevailing market prices of our common stock, and also could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industry Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability. We realize income primarily from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-earning assets will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. Changes in market interest rates could either positively or negatively affect our net interest income and our profitability, depending on the magnitude, direction and duration of the change. 16 Table of Contents We are unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by, among other factors, changes in inflation rates, economic growth, money supply, government debt, domestic and foreign financial markets and political developments, including terrorist acts and acts of war. Our asset-liability management strategy, which is designed to mitigate our risk from changes in market interest rates, may not be able to mitigate changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If a significant number of customers fail to perform under their loans, our business, profitability, and financial condition would be adversely affected. As a lender, we face the risk that a significant number of our borrowers will fail to pay their loans when due. If borrower defaults cause losses in excess of our allowance for loan losses, it could have an adverse effect on our business, profitability, and financial condition. We have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. While this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the establishment of loan losses are dependent to a great extent on our experience and judgment. We cannot assure you that our allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, profitability or financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal or state legislation could have a substantial impact on us and our results of operations. Additional legislation and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect our powers, authority and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of regulatory power may have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Recent changes in laws and regulations may cause us to incur additional costs. Recently enacted and proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules recently adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc., could cause us to incur increased costs as we evaluate the implications of new rules and respond to new requirements. We continue to evaluate and monitor developments with respect to these new and proposed rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs, if any, we may incur or the timing of such costs. Changes in monetary policies may have an adverse effect on our business. Our results of operations are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve. Actions by monetary and fiscal authorities, including the Federal Reserve, could have an adverse effect on our deposit levels, loan demand or business earnings. See “Business-Supervision and Regulation.” Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 