D. Risk Factors Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our ordinary shares. Our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected due to any of the following risks. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We have a history of losses, and may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. In the year ended December 31, 2008 we recorded a net loss of $576,000 and we have incurred losses in four out of the last five years. As of December 31, 2008 our accumulated deficit was $62.9 million. We may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us. Our working capital requirements and the cash flow from our operating activities are likely to vary greatly from quarter to quarter, depending on the timing of orders and deliveries, the build-up of inventories, and the payment terms offered to our customers. As a consequence of our significant losses, we incurred significant bank debt and sold equity and debt securities in private placements in the years 1997 through 2008. We may need to raise additional funds for a number of uses, including: · Working capital and operating activities; · Implementing marketing and sales activities for our products; · Maintaining and expanding research and development programs; · Hiring additional qualified personnel; and · Supporting an increased level of operations. 5 We may not be able to obtain additional funds on favorable terms. If we cannot raise needed funds on favorable terms, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate some aspects of our operations and we may not be able to: · Develop new products; · Enhance our existing products; · Remain current with evolving industry standards; · Fulfill our contractual obligations; · Take advantage of future opportunities; · Respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements; or · Retain our listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If adequate funds are not available to us, our business, and results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Any equity or debt financings may cause dilution to our then-existing shareholders and may increase our financing expenses. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the net tangible book value per share of our ordinary shares would decrease and the percentage ownership of then current shareholders would be diluted. We may not be able to implement our growth strategy which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In line with our growth strategy, we have entered into teaming agreements and other co-operation agreements with General Electric Aviation Systems (formerly Smiths Aerospace Electronic Systems) or GE Aviation to increase our penetration into the aviation market. We are currently investing and intend to continue to invest significant resources to develop this relationship. Should our relationship fail to materialize into significant agreements or should we fail to work efficiently with such party, we may lose sales and marketing opportunities and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our growth is partially dependant on the development of new products, based on internal research and development. Although we carefully analyze the market needs before we invest in the development of a new product, we cannot be sure that the needs we identify are true, we might face difficulties or delays in the development process that will result in changes of the market needs and competing products may emerge during the development and certification process. Recent worldwide credit market turmoil may adversely affect our customers, which directly impacts our business and results of operations. Our operations and performance depend on our customers, including those from the governmental sector, having adequate resources to purchase our products and services. The unprecedented turmoil in the credit markets and the global economic downturn generally adversely impact our customers and potential customers. These economic conditions have continued to deteriorate despite government intervention globally, and may remain volatile and uncertain for the foreseeable future. Customers have altered and may continue to alter their purchasing activities in response to lack of credit, economic uncertainty and concern about the stability of markets in general, and have reduced or delayed purchases of our products and services or other sales activities that affect purchases of our products and services. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in demand resulting from deteriorating economic conditions, our financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. Competition in the market for defense electronics is intense. Our products may not achieve market acceptance which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market for our products is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively in our market. Our principal competitors in the defense electronics market are GE, Rockwell Collins, Honeywell, Elbit Systems, Israel Aircraft Industries Ltd., Goodrich (thru the acquisition of TEAC Aerospace), the Zodiac group (thru the acquisition of Enertec), Astronautics C.A., AITech Defense Systems, and others. We expect to continue to face competition from these and other competitors. Most of our competitors are far larger, have substantially greater resources including financial, technological, marketing and distribution capabilities, and enjoy greater market recognition than we have. These competitors may be able to achieve greater economies of scale and may be less vulnerable to price competition than us. We may not be able to offer our products as part of integrated systems to the same extent as our competitors or successfully develop or introduce new products that are more cost effective or offer better performance than those of our competitors. Failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 Our initiative of providing manufacturing services may not succeed, and as a result, we may be unable to achieve profitability in our Beit-She’an production facility and may be forced to shut down its operations. In June 2000, we began to provide manufacturing services to original equipment manufacturers in Israel and the United States, using the manufacturing capabilities of our Beit-She’an plant. The market for our manufacturing services is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively in this market. The cost of labor and the efficiency of the production equipment and production processes are crucial to our success in this market. Consequently, should we fail to maintain low labor costs, enhance our production equipment and develop new and more efficient production methods, we may have to shut down the operations of our Beit-She’an plant, which may harm our competitiveness and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Reduction in defense budgets worldwide may cause a reduction in our revenues, which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The vast majority of our revenues is derived from the sale of products with military applications. These revenues, on a consolidated basis, totaled approximately $15.3 million or 86% of revenues in 2008, $11.6 million, or 83% of revenues in 2007 and$11.6 million, or 89 % of revenues in 2006. The defense budgets of a number of countries may be reduced in the future. Declines in defense budgets may result in reduced demand for our products and manufacturing services. This would result in reduction in our core business’ revenues and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Sales of our products are subject to governmental procurement procedures and practices; termination, reduction or modification of contracts with our customers, and especially with the Government of Israel, or a substantial decrease in our customers’ budgets may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our products are sold primarily to government agencies and authorities and government-owned companies, many of which have complex and time-consuming procurement procedures. A long period of time often elapses from the time we begin marketing a product until we actually sell that product to a particular customer. In addition, our sales to government agencies, authorities and companies are directly affected by these customers’ budgetary constraints and the priority given in their budgets to the procurement of our products. Further, our business with the State of Israel and other governmental entities is, in general, subject to delays in funding and performance of contracts and the termination of contracts or subcontracts for convenience, among others. The termination, reduction or modification of our contracts or subcontracts with the Government of Israel in the event of change in requirements, policies or budgetary constraints would have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we do not receive the governmental approvals necessary for the export of our products, our revenues may decrease. Similarly if our suppliers and partners do not receive government approvals necessary to export their products or designs to us, our revenues may decrease and we may fail to implement our growth strategy. Under Israeli law, the export of our products and know-how is subject to approval by the Israeli Ministry of Defense. To initiate sales proposals with regard to exports of our products and know-how and to export such products or know-how, we must obtain permits from the Ministry of Defense. We may not be able to receive in a timely manner all the required permits for which we may apply in the future. Similarly, under foreign laws the export of certain military products, technical designs and spare parts require the prior approval of, or export license from, such foreign governments. In order to maintain our third party production, certain co-development activities and procurements required for the performance of certain contracts, we must receive detailed technical designs, products or products’ parts samples from our strategic partners or suppliers. We may not be able to receive all the required permits and/or licenses in a timely manner. Consequently, our revenues may decrease and we may fail to implement our growth strategy. 7 We depend on sales to key customers and the loss of one or more of our key customers would result in a loss of a significant amount of our revenues, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from a small number of customers. Our major customers during the three years ended December 31, 2008 were as follows: Percentage of Revenues 2006 2007 2008 GE Aviation 38 % 17 % 16 % Israeli Ministry of Defense 5 % 5 % 15 % Israel Aerospace Industries 20 % 17 % 11 % RAFAEL Advanced Defense Systems 2 % 10 % 9 % Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd 10 % 14 % 29 % We anticipate that a significant portion of our future revenues will continue to be derived from sales to a small number of customers. If our principal customers do not continue to purchase products from us at current levels or if such customers are not retained and we are not able to derive sufficient revenues from sales to new customers to compensate for their loss, our revenues would be reduced and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a limited number of suppliers of components for our products and if we are unable to obtain these components when needed, we would experience delays in manufacturing our products and our financial results could be adversely affected. We acquire most of the components for the manufacturing of our products from a limited number of suppliers and subcontractors, most of whom are located in Israel and the United States. Certain of these suppliers are currently the sole source of one or more components upon which we are dependent. Suppliers of some of the components for manufacturing require us to place orders with significant lead-time to assure supply in accordance with our manufacturing requirements. Inadequacy of operating funds may cause us to delays placement of such orders and may result in delays in supply. Delays in supply may significantly hurt our ability to fulfill our contractual obligations and may significantly hurt our business and result of operations. We may not be able to continue to obtain such components from these suppliers on satisfactory commercial terms. Temporary disruptions of our manufacturing operations would ensue if we were required to obtain components from alternative sources, which may have an adverse effect on our financial results. Rapid technological changes may adversely affect the market acceptance of our products and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The defense electronics market in which we compete is subject to technological changes, introduction of new products, change in customer demands and evolving industry standards. Our future success will depend upon our ability to keep pace with technological developments and to timely address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers by supporting existing and new technologies and by developing and introducing enhancements to our current products and new products. We may not be successful in developing and marketing enhancements to our products that will respond to technological change, evolving industry standards or customer requirements. In addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and sale of such enhancements and such enhancements may not adequately meet the requirements of the market and may not achieve any significant degrees of market acceptance. If release dates of our new products or enhancements are delayed or, if when released, they fail to achieve market acceptance, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. 8 We may encounter difficulties with our international operations and sales. Exports accounted for 55% of our sales in 2008, 61% of our sales in 2007 and 67% of our sales in 2006. This subjects us to many risks inherent in engaging in export international business, including: · Limitations and disruptions resulting from the imposition of government controls; · Changes in regulatory requirements; · Export license requirements; · Economic or political instability; · Trade restrictions; · Changes in tariffs; · Currency fluctuations; · Longer receivable collection periods and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; · Greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property; · Difficulties in managing overseas subsidiaries and international operations; and · Potential adverse tax consequences. We may not be able to sustain or increase revenues from international operations and may encounter significant difficulties in connection with the sale of our products in international markets. Any of those events will have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Currency exchange rate fluctuations in the world markets in which we conduct business could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. While our revenues are generally denominated in U.S. dollars, a significant portion of our expenses is incurred in NIS. We do not currently engage in any currency hedging transactions intended to reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations. If we were to determine that it was in our best interests to enter into any hedging transactions in the future, we may not be able to do so. Furthermore, such transactions, if entered into, may not materially reduce the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our results of operations. In addition, if for any reason exchange or price controls or other restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies into NIS were imposed, our business could be adversely affected. In the future, such fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on revenues from international sales, operating expenses and consequently, on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are dependent on our senior management and key personnel, in particular Herzle Bodinger, the chairman of our Board of Directors, and our president, and Mr. Zvi Alon our chief executive officer, whose loss could adversely affect our business. Our future success depends in large part on the continued services of our senior management and key personnel. In particular, we are dependent on the services of Herzle Bodinger, the chairman of our Board of Directors and our president, and Mr. Zvi Alon our chief executive officer. Any loss of their services other members of senior management or other key personnel could negatively and materially affect our business. Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us or claims that we have violated a patent or infringed on a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. In addition, any infringement claim, even one without merit, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources to defend. 9 The status of our Chinese subsidiary and its joint venture with Beijing Tianzu Forestry Company is uncertain and we may be required to initiate litigation in order to enforce our rights. Beijing Huarui Aircraft Components Maintenance and Services Co., Ltd. or CACS, our Chinese subsidiary, conducts its business in an approximately 16,000 square foot facility in Beijing that includes offices and test and repair facilities. The land for this facility was leased by Beijing Tianzu Forestry Company or Tianzu, the minority shareholder in CACS, from the Chinese government for 30 years. Under a joint venture agreement, and in consideration for its equity investment in CACS, Tianzu granted CACS usage rights in the land, constructed the buildings and granted CACS the ownership of these buildings. However, the transfer of the title to the land and the buildings has not been completed. Although Tianzu is legally obligated to complete such transfer of title to the land and the buildings, such transfer may not be completed and we may be required to initiate litigation in order to enforce our rights to receive title to the land and buildings. We have reached an understanding with our Chinese partner pursuant to which the Chinese partner will surrender its shares in CACS in consideration for retaining title to the land and the building. The agreement between the parties has not been finalized yet and it is subject to approval from the various Chinese regulatory authorities and other legal procedures. We may fail to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and the market price of our ordinary shares. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 governing internal controls and procedures for financial reporting, which started in connection with this Annual Report on Form 20-F, have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. To comply with this statute, we will be required to document and test our internal control procedures, and our management will be required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal controls over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal controls over financial reporting are relatively new and complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. We may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our assessments of our internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information and the market price of our ordinary shares may suffer. Risk Factors Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has been volatile in the past and may decline in the future. Our ordinary shares have experienced significant market price and volume fluctuations in the past and may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: · Quarterly variations in our operating results; · Operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; · Changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; · Announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · Announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · Changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; · Announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; · Additions or departures of key personnel; 10 · Future sales of our ordinary shares; · Delisting of our shares from the NASDAQ Capital Market; and · Stock market price and volume fluctuations. Domestic and international stock markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events or hostilities in or surrounding Israel, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources both of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Substantial future sales of our ordinary shares may depress our share price. If our principal shareholders sell substantial amounts of their ordinary shares, including shares registered under effective registration statements and shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants, or convertible notes, or if the perception exists that our principal shareholders may sell a substantial number of our ordinary shares, the market price of our ordinary shares may fall. Any substantial sales of our shares in the public market also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity related securities in the future at a time, in a place and on terms we deem appropriate. We may be delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market if we fail to meet its listing maintenance requirements. Our shares have traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market since 1985 and on the Nasdaq Capital Market since June 10, 2002. During the last twelve months, we have from time to time not been in compliance with Nasdaq’s continued listing requirement that the share price of our ordinary shares exceed $1.00. While we met this requirement as of December 31, 2008 and March, 2009, we cannot assure you that our share price will continue to be greater than $1.00 per share or that we will be able to satisfy the other listing maintenance requirements. Should we fail to satisfy such requirements, our ordinary shares may be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market and transferred to the OTC Bulletin Board. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations which generally define Penny Stocks to be an equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. If we were delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market we would lose our exemption. As a Penny Stock, our ordinary shares may become subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), or the Penny Stock Rule. This rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouses). For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. As a result, this rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of purchasers to sell any of our securities in the secondary market. We do not intend to pay dividends. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our ordinary shares and do not expect to do so in the foreseeable future. The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on various factors, including our operating results, financial condition, future prospects and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. You should not rely on an investment in our company if you require dividend income from your investment in our company. The success of your investment will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation of the market price of our ordinary shares, which is uncertain and unpredictable. There is no guarantee that our ordinary shares will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased your ordinary shares. 11 Risks Relating to Our Location in Israel Political, economic and military instability in Israel may disrupt our operations and negatively affect our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect our share price. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel, and our principal executive offices and manufacturing and research and development facilities are located in Israel. Political, economic and security conditions in Israel directly influence us. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, Israel and its Arab neighbors have engaged in a number of armed conflicts. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Major hostilities between Israel and its neighbors may hinder Israel’s international trade and lead to economic downturn. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business. There has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity in Israel, which began in September 2000 and which has continued with varying levels of severity through 2008. In December of 2008 the IDF has operated in Gaza strip in response to continuing attacks over the Southern settlements of Israel by Hamas activists. The operation has ended in the beginning of 2009, however, the cease fire has not entered into effect to this time. Ongoing violence between Israel and the Palestinians as well as tension between Israel and the neighboring Syria and Lebanon may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Many of our employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty and are subject to being called for active duty under emergency circumstances. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our business. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may affect our operating results. A significant portion of the cost of our operations, mainly personnel and facility-related, is incurred in NIS. Therefore, our NIS related costs, as expressed in U.S. dollars, are influenced by the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the NIS. In addition, if the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar, or if the timing of such devaluations were to lag considerably behind inflation, our cost as expressed in U.S. dollars may increase. NIS linked balance sheet items may create foreign exchange gains or losses, depending upon the relative dollar values of the NIS at the beginning and end of the reporting period, affecting our net income and earnings per share. Although we may use hedging techniques we may not be able to eliminate the effects of currency fluctuations. Thus, exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and share price. Service and enforcement of legal process on us and our directors and officers may be difficult to obtain. Service of process upon our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named herein, most of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, since substantially all of our assets, most of our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named in this annual report are located outside the U.S., any judgment obtained in the United States against us or these individuals or entities may not be collectible within the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations and other conditions, Israeli courts may enforce final judgments of United States courts for liquidated amounts in civil matters, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of those Acts. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from those of a typical U.S. corporation. Because we are an Israeli company, the rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by our articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in a typical U.S. corporation. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith towards the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his, her or its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable to shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholders’ vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness towards the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revisions in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. 12 As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of The NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of such requirements, must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or on its website each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. As a foreign private issuer listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, we may follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, composition of the board of directors, director nomination procedure, compensation of officers, and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we may follow our home country law, instead of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, which require that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. 