ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The business of the Company faces numerous risks, including those set forth below or those described elsewhere in this Form 10-K Annual Report or in the Company’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The risks described below are not the only risks that the Company faces, nor are they necessarily listed in order of significance. Other risks and uncertainties may also affect the Company’s business. Any of these risks may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Table of Contents 17 The industries in which the Company operates are undergoing technological changes, and the Company’s business could suffer if the Company is unable to adjust to these changes. The Company’s operating results could be negatively affected by the Company’s inability to maintain and increase its technological and manufacturing capability and expertise. Rapid technological advances in semiconductors and electronic equipment have placed rigorous demands on the printed circuit materials manufactured by the Company and used in printed circuit board production. The industries in which the Company operates are very competitive. Certain of the Company’s principal competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial resources than the Company, and the Company’s operating results will be affected by its ability to maintain its competitive positions in these industries. The printed circuit materials and advanced composite materials industries are intensely competitive and the Company competes worldwide in the markets for such materials. The Company is vulnerable to an increase in the cost of gas or electricity. Changes in the cost or availability of gas or electricity could materially increase the Company’s cost of operations. The Company’s production processes require the use of substantial amounts of gas and electricity, the cost and available supply of which are beyond the control of the Company. The Company is vulnerable to an increase in the price of certain raw materials. There are a limited number of qualified suppliers of the principal materials used by the Company in its manufacture of printed circuit materials and advanced composite materials products. Substitutes for these materials are not readily available, and in the past there have been shortages in the market for certain of these materials. These shortages could materially increase the Company’s cost of operations. The Company’s customer base is highly concentrated, and the loss of one or more customers could affect the Company’s business. A loss of one or more key customers could affect the Company’s profitability. The Company’s customer base is concentrated, in part, because the Company’s business strategy has been to develop long-term relationships with a select group of customers. During the Company’s fiscal year ended February 26, 2006, the Company’s ten largest customers accounted for approximately 72% of net sales. The Company expects that sales to a relatively small number of customers will continue to account for a significant portion of its net sales for the foreseeable future. See “Business–Printed Circuit Materials Operations–Customers and End Markets” and “Business–Advanced Composite Materials–Customers and End Markets” in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 of Part I of this Report and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of Part II of this Report for discussions of the loss of a key customer early in the 1999 fiscal year. Table of Contents 18 The Company’s business is dependent on the electronics industry which is cyclical in nature. The electronics industry is cyclical and has experienced recurring downturns. The downturns, such as occurred in the electronics industry during the first quarter of the Company’s fiscal year ended March 2, 1997 and in the first quarter of the Company’s fiscal year ended March 3, 2002, and which continues to a lesser extent at the present time, can be unexpected and have often reduced demand for, and prices of, printed circuit materials and advanced composite materials. This potential reduction in demand and prices could have a negative impact on the Company’s business. The Company relies on short-term orders from its customers. A variety of conditions, both specific to the individual customer and generally affecting the customer’s industry, can cause a customer to reduce or delay orders previously anticipated by the Company, which could negatively impact the Company’s business. The Company typically does not obtain long-term purchase orders or commitments. Instead, it relies primarily on continual communication with its customers to anticipate the future volume of purchase orders. The Company faces extensive capital expenditure costs. The Company’s business is capital intensive and, in addition, the introduction of new technologies could substantially increase the Company’s capital expenditures. In order to remain competitive the Company must continue to make significant investments in capital equipment and expansion of operations, which could affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s international operations are subject to different and additional risks than the Company’s domestic operations. The Company’s international operations are subject to various risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, foreign currency exchange rates, tariffs and other barriers, political and economic instability, potentially adverse tax consequences, and any impact on economic and financial conditions around the world resulting from geopolitical conflicts or acts of terrorism, all of which could negatively impact the Company’s business. A portion of the sales and costs of the Company’s international operations are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and may be affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The Company is subject to a variety of environmental regulations. The Company’s production processes require the use, storage, treatment and disposal of certain materials which are considered hazardous under applicable environmental laws, and the Company is subject to a variety of regulatory requirements relating to the handling of such materials and the release of emissions and effluents into the environment, non-compliance with which could have a negative impact on the Company. Other possible developments, such as the enactment or adoption of additional environmental laws, could result in substantial costs to the Company. Table of Contents 19 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 