ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The business of the Company faces numerous risks, including those set forth below or those described elsewhere in this Form 10-K Annual Report or in the Company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The risks described below are not the only risks that the Company faces, nor are they necessarily listed in order of significance. Other risks and uncertainties may also affect the Company’s business. Any of these risks may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. The industries in which the Company operates are undergoing technological changes, and the Company's business could suffer if the Company is unable to adjust to these changes. The Company's operating results could be negatively affected by the Company's inability to maintain and increase its technological and manufacturing capability and expertise. Rapid technological advances in semiconductors and electronic equipment have placed rigorous demands on the printed circuit materials manufactured by the Company and used in printed circuit board production. The industries in which the Company operates are very competitive. Certain of the Company's principal competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial resources than the Company, and the Company's operating results will be affected by its ability to maintain its competitive positions in these industries. The printed circuit materials, advanced composite materials and composite parts and assemblies industries are intensely competitive and the Company competes worldwide in the markets for such materials. The Company is vulnerable to an increase in the cost of gas or electricity. Changes in the cost or availability of gas or electricity could materially increase the Company's cost of operations. The Company's production processes require the use of substantial amounts of gas and electricity, the cost and available supply of which are beyond the control of the Company. The Company’s cost of sales and results of operations were affected by increases in utility costs in the Company’s fiscal year ended March 1, 2009. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of Part II of this Report. The Company is vulnerable to an increase in the price of certain raw materials. There are a limited number of qualified suppliers of the principal materials used by the Company in its manufacture of printed circuit materials, advanced composite materials and composite parts and assemblies. Substitutes for these materials are not readily available, and in the past there have been shortages in the market for certain of these materials. These shortages could materially increase the Company's cost of operations. Raw material substitutions for certain aircraft related products may require governmental (such as Federal Aviation Administration) approval. 17 During the first and second quarters of the Company’s 2008 fiscal year and the second quarter of the 2010 fiscal year, the Company incurred significant increases in the cost of copper foil, one of the Company’s primary raw materials, and the Company passed a substantial portion of such increases through to its customers. See “Business—Printed Circuit Materials—Materials and Sources of Supply” in Item 1 of Part I of this Report and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of Part II of this Report. The Company's customer base is highly concentrated, and the loss of one or more customers could adversely affect the Company's business. A loss of one or more key customers could adversely affect the Company's profitability. The Company's customer base is concentrated, in part, because the Company's business strategy has been to develop long-term relationships with a select group of customers. During the Company's fiscal year ended February 28, 2010, the Company's ten largest customers accounted for approximately 66% of net sales. The Company expects that sales to a relatively small number of customers will continue to account for a significant portion of its net sales for the foreseeable future. See "Business—Printed Circuit Materials—Customers and End Markets” and “Business—Advanced Composite Materials—Customers and End Markets” in Item 1 of Part I of this Report. The Company's business is dependent on the electronics and aerospace industries which are cyclical in nature. The electronics and aerospace industries are cyclical and have experienced recurring cycles. The downturns, such as occurred in the electronics industry during the first quarter of the Company's fiscal year ended March 3, 2002, can be unexpected and have often reduced demand for, and prices of, printed circuit materials, advanced composite materials and composite parts and assemblies. This potential reduction in demand and prices could have a negative impact on the Company’s business. In addition, the Company is subject to the effects of general regional and global economic and financial conditions, such as the worldwide economic and financial crises that occurred in the second half of the Company’s fiscal year ended March 1, 2009 and that continued in the first and second quarters of the Company’s fiscal year ended February 28, 2010. The Company relies on short-term orders from its customers. A variety of conditions, both specific to the individual customer and generally affecting the customer’s industry, can cause a customer to reduce or delay orders previously anticipated by the Company, which could negatively impact the Company’s business. In the electronic materials market, the Company typically does not obtain long-term purchase orders or commitments. Instead, it relies primarily on continual communication with its customers to anticipate the future volume of purchase orders. The Company faces extensive capital expenditure costs. The Company’s business is capital intensive and, in addition, the introduction of new technologies could substantially increase the Company’s capital expenditures. In order to remain competitive the Company must continue to make significant investments in capital equipment and expansion 18 of operations, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s international operations are subject to different and additional risks than the Company’s domestic operations. The Company’s international operations are subject to various risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, foreign currency exchange rates, tariffs and other barriers, political and economic instability, potentially adverse tax consequences, and any impact on economic and financial conditions around the world resulting from geopolitical conflicts or acts of terrorism, all of which could negatively impact the Company’s business. A portion of the sales and costs of the Company’s international operations are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and may be affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The Company is subject to a variety of environmental regulations. The Company’s production processes require the use, storage, treatment and disposal of certain materials which are considered hazardous under applicable environmental laws, and the Company is subject to a variety of regulatory requirements relating to the handling of such materials and the release of emissions and effluents into the environment, non-compliance with which could have a negative impact on the Company. Other possible developments, such as the enactment or adoption of additional environmental laws, could result in substantial costs to the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 