Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. These risks are not the only ones we face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. The industries in which we operate are cyclical and are affected by the economy in general. We sell products to customers in industries that experience cyclicality (expectancy of recurring periods of economic growth and slowdown) in demand for products, and may experience substantial increases and decreases in business volume throughout economic cycles. Industries we serve, including the automotive and vehicle parts, heavy-duty truck, industrial equipment, steel, rail, electrical distribution and controls, aerospace and defense, power sports/fitness equipment, HVAC, electrical components, appliance and semiconductor equipment industries, are affected by consumer spending, general economic conditions and the impact of international trade. A downturn in any of the industries we serve, particularly the domestic automotive or heavy-duty truck industry, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Because a significant portion of our sales is to the automotive and heavy-duty truck industries, a decrease in the demand of these industries or the loss of any of our major customers in these industries could adversely affect our financial health. Demand for certain of our products is affected by, among other things, the relative strength or weakness of the automotive and heavy-duty truck industries. The domestic automotive and heavy-duty truck industries are highly cyclical and may be adversely affected by international competition. In addition, the automotive and heavy-duty truck industries are significantly unionized and subject to work slowdowns and stoppages resulting from labor disputes. We derived 24% and 11% of our net sales during the year ended December 31, 2007 from the automobile and heavy-duty truck industries, respectively. International Truck, our largest customer, accounted for approximately 7% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2007. The loss of a portion of business to International Truck or any of our other major automotive or heavy-duty truck customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will maintain or improve our relationships in these industries or that we will continue to supply this customer at current levels. Our Supply Technologies customers are generally not contractually obligated to purchase products and services from us. Most of the products and services are provided to our Supply Technologies customers under purchase orders as opposed to long-term contracts. When we do enter into long-term contracts with our customers, many of them only establish pricing terms and do not obligate our customers to buy required minimum amounts from us or to buy from us exclusively. Accordingly, many of our Supply Technologies customers may decrease the amount of products and services that they purchase from us or even stop purchasing from us altogether, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and profitability. We are dependent on key customers. We rely on several key customers. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our top seven customers accounted for approximately 21% of our net sales and our top customer, International Truck, accounted for approximately 7% of our net sales. Many of our customers place orders for products on an as-needed basis and operate in cyclical industries and, as a result, their order levels have varied from period to period in the past and may vary significantly in the future. Due to competitive issues, we have lost key customers in the past and may again in the future. Customer orders are dependent upon their markets and may be subject to 7 Table of Contents delays or cancellations. As a result of dependence on our key customers, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations if any of the following were to occur: • the loss of any key customer, in whole or in part; • the insolvency or bankruptcy of any key customer; • a declining market in which customers reduce orders or demand reduced prices; or • a strike or work stoppage at a key customer facility, which could affect both their suppliers and customers. If any of our key customers become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover accounts receivable from that customer would be adversely affected and any payments we received in the preference period prior to a bankruptcy filing may be potentially recoverable, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Three of our substantial customers filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code during 2005 and 2006. Delphi Corp. and Dana Corporation, which are primarily customers of our Manufactured Products and Aluminum Products segments, filed in 2005, while Werner Ladder, which is primarily a customer of the Supply Technologies segment, filed in 2006. Collectively, these bankruptcies reduced our operating income in the aggregate by $1.8 million during 2005 and 2006. We operate in highly competitive industries. The markets in which all three of our segments sell their products are highly competitive. Some of our competitors are large companies that have greater financial resources than we have. We believe that the principal competitive factors for our Supply Technologies segment are an approach reflecting long-term business partnership and reliability, sourced product quality and conformity to customer specifications, timeliness of delivery, price and design and engineering capabilities. We believe that the principal competitive factors for our Aluminum Products and Manufactured Products segments are product quality and conformity to customer specifications, design and engineering capabilities, product development, timeliness of delivery and price. The rapidly evolving nature of the markets in which we compete may attract new entrants as they perceive opportunities, and our competitors may foresee the course of market development more accurately than we do. In addition, our competitors may develop products that are superior to our products or may adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. We expect competitive pressures in our markets to remain strong. These pressures arise from existing competitors, other companies that may enter our existing or future markets and, in some cases, our customers, which may decide to internally produce items we sell. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with our competitors. Failure to compete successfully could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The loss of key executives could adversely impact us. Our success depends upon the efforts, abilities and expertise of our executive officers and other senior managers, including Edward Crawford, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Matthew Crawford, our President and Chief Operating Officer, as well as the president of each of our operating units. An event of default occurs under our revolving credit facility if Messrs. E. Crawford and M. Crawford or certain of their related parties own less than 15% of our outstanding common stock, or if they own less than 15% of such stock, then if either Mr. E. Crawford or Mr. M. Crawford ceases to hold the office of chairman, chief executive officer or president. The loss of the services of Messrs. E. Crawford and M. Crawford, senior and executive officers, and/or other key individuals could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents We may encounter difficulty in expanding our business through targeted acquisitions. We have pursued, and may continue to pursue, targeted acquisition opportunities that we believe would complement our business, such as the acquisitions of NABS in 2006 and PPG in 2005. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in consummating any acquisitions. Any targeted acquisitions will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of businesses. We may not successfully overcome these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any of our acquisitions, including the possible inability to integrate an acquired business’ operations, IT technologies, services and products into our business, diversion of management’s attention, the assumption of unknown liabilities, increases in our indebtedness, the failure to achieve the strategic objectives of those acquisitions and other unanticipated problems, some or all of which could materially and adversely affect us. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, our activities. Any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with any acquisition and the integration of our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects of our business. Our Supply Technologies business depends upon third parties for substantially all of our component parts. Supply Technologies purchases substantially all of its component parts from third-party suppliers and manufacturers. Our business is subject to the risk of price fluctuations and periodic delays in the delivery of component parts. Failure by suppliers to continue to supply us with these component parts on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, would have a material adverse effect on us. We depend upon the ability of these suppliers, among other things, to meet stringent performance and quality specifications and to conform to delivery schedules. Failure by third-party suppliers to comply with these and other requirements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The raw materials used in our production processes and by our suppliers of component parts are subject to price and supply fluctuations that could increase our costs of production and adversely affect our results of operations. Our supply of raw materials for our Aluminum Products and Manufactured Products businesses could be interrupted for a variety of reasons, including availability and pricing. Prices for raw materials necessary for production have fluctuated significantly in the past and significant increases could adversely affect our results of operations and profit margins. While we generally attempt to pass along increased raw materials prices to our customers in the form of price increases, there may be a time delay between the increased raw materials prices and our ability to increase the price of our products, or we may be unable to increase the prices of our products due to pricing pressure or other factors. Our suppliers of component parts, particularly in our Supply Technologies business, may significantly and quickly increase their prices in response to increases in costs of the raw materials, such as steel, that they use to manufacture our component parts. We may not be able to increase our prices commensurate with our increased costs. Consequently, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. The energy costs involved in our production processes and transportation are subject to fluctuations that are beyond our control and could significantly increase our costs of production. Our manufacturing process and the transportation of raw materials, components and finished goods are energy intensive. Our manufacturing processes are dependent on adequate supplies of electricity and natural gas. A substantial increase in the cost of transportation fuel, natural gas or electricity could have a material adverse effect on our margins. We experienced widely fluctuating natural gas costs in 2006 and in 2007. We may experience higher than anticipated gas costs in the future, which could adversely affect our 9 Table of Contents results of operations. In addition, a disruption or curtailment in supply could have a material adverse effect on our production and sales levels. Potential product liability risks exist from the products which we sell. Our businesses expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and sale of our products and products of third-party vendors that we use or resell. While we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable and adequate product liability insurance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms or that our insurance will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. In the event of a claim against us, a lack of sufficient insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Moreover, even if we maintain adequate insurance, any successful claim could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Some of our employees belong to labor unions, and strikes or work stoppages could adversely affect our operations. As of December 31, 2007, we were a party to seven collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions that covered approximately 550 full-time employees. Our inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by the affected workers and increased operating costs as a result of higher wages or benefits paid to union members. If the unionized workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, or other employees were to become unionized, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and higher ongoing labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate and source internationally, which exposes us to the risks of doing business abroad. Our operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, including the following: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings; • transportation delays and interruptions; • political, social and economic instability and disruptions; • government embargoes or foreign trade restrictions; • the imposition of duties and tariffs and other trade barriers; • import and export controls; • labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments; • the potential for nationalization of enterprises; • difficulties in staffing and managing multinational operations; • limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our operations in the future by reducing the demand for our products and services, decreasing the prices at which we can sell our products or otherwise having an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will continue to operate in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject. We also cannot assure you that these laws will not be modified. 10 Table of Contents Unexpected delays in the shipment of large, long-lead industrial equipment could adversely affect our results of operations in the period in which shipment was anticipated. Long-lead industrial equipment contracts are a significant and growing part of our business. We primarily use the percentage of completion method to account for these contracts. Nevertheless, under this method, a large proportion of revenues and earnings on such contracts are recognized close to shipment of the equipment. Unanticipated shipment delays on large contracts could postpone recognition of revenue and earnings into future periods. Accordingly, if shipment was anticipated in the fourth quarter of a year, unanticipated shipment delays could adversely affect results of operations in that year. We are subject to significant environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and related compliance expenditures and liabilities. Our businesses are subject to many foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, particularly with respect to the use, handling, treatment, storage, discharge and disposal of substances and hazardous wastes used or generated in our manufacturing processes. Compliance with these laws and regulations is a significant factor in our business. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant expenditures to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations and permit requirements could result in civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or remedial actions. We are currently, and may in the future be, required to incur costs relating to the investigation or remediation of property, including property where we have disposed of our waste, and for addressing environmental conditions. Some environmental laws and regulations impose liability and responsibility on present and former owners, operators or users of facilities and sites for contamination at such facilities and sites without regard to causation or knowledge of contamination. In addition, we occasionally evaluate various alternatives with respect to our facilities, including possible dispositions or closures. Investigations undertaken in connection with these activities may lead to discoveries of contamination that must be remediated, and closures of facilities may trigger compliance requirements that are not applicable to operating facilities. Consequently, we cannot assure you that existing or future circumstances, the development of new facts or the failure of third parties to address contamination at current or former facilities or properties will not require significant expenditures by us. We expect to continue to be subject to increasingly stringent environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. It is difficult to predict the future interpretation and development of environmental and health and safety laws and regulations or their impact on our future earnings and operations. We anticipate that compliance will continue to require increased capital expenditures and operating costs. Any increase in these costs, or unanticipated liabilities arising for example out of discovery of previously unknown conditions or more aggressive enforcement actions, could adversely affect our results of operations, and there is no assurance that they will not exceed our reserves or have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. If our information systems fail, our business will be materially affected. We believe that our information systems are an integral part of the Supply Technologies segment and, to a lesser extent, the Aluminum Products and Manufactured Products segments. We depend on our information systems to process orders, manage inventory and accounts receivable collections, purchase products, maintain cost-effective operations, route and re-route orders and provide superior service to our customers. We cannot assure you that a disruption in the operation of our information systems used by Supply Technologies, including the failure of the supply chain management software to function properly, or those used by Aluminum Products and Manufactured Products will not occur. Any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Operating problems in our business may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The occurrence of material operating problems at our facilities may have a material adverse effect on our operations as a whole, both during and after the period of operational difficulties. We are subject to the usual hazards associated with manufacturing and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and waste, including explosions, fires, leaks, discharges, inclement weather, natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime and transportation interruption or calamities. Our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and our President and Chief Operating Officer collectively beneficially own a significant portion of our company’s outstanding common stock and their interests may conflict with yours. As of February 29, 2008, Edward Crawford, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and Matthew Crawford, our President and Chief Operating Officer, collectively beneficially owned approximately 26% of our common stock. Mr. E. Crawford is Mr. M. Crawford’s father. Their interests could conflict with your interests. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of Messrs. E. Crawford and M. Crawford may conflict with your interests as a shareholder. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 