ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The contract drilling, project management and engineering services, and rental tools and construction businesses involve a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information included in this Form 10-K, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, before deciding to invest in our securities. While these are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider, you should know that they are not the only risks or uncertainties facing us or which may adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business Volatile oil and natural gas prices impact demand for our drilling and related services. A decrease in demand for crude oil and natural gas or other factors may reduce demand for our services and substantially reduce our profitability or result in losses. The success of our operations is significantly dependent upon the exploration and development activities of the major, independent and national oil and gas companies that comprise our customer base. Oil and natural gas prices and market expectations regarding potential changes in these prices can be extremely volatile, and therefore, the level of exploration and production activities can be extremely volatile. Increases or decreases in oil and natural gas prices and expectations of future prices could have an impact on our customers’ long-term exploration and development activities, which in turn could materially affect our business and financial performance. Higher commodity prices do not necessarily result in increased drilling activity because our customers’ expectations of future commodity prices typically drive demand for our drilling services. 14 Table of Contents Commodity prices and demand for our drilling and related services also depends upon other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • the demand for oil and natural gas; • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; • expectations regarding future energy prices; • advances in exploration, development and production technology; • the adoption or repeal of laws and government regulations, both in the United States and other countries; • the imposition or lifting of economic sanctions against foreign countries; • the number of ongoing and recently completed rig construction projects which may create overcapacity; • local and worldwide military, political and economic events, including events in the oil producing countries in Africa, the Middle East, Russia, Central Asia, Southeast Asia and Americas; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to set and maintain production levels and prices; • the level of production by non-OPEC countries; • weather conditions; • expansion or contraction of worldwide economic activity, which affects levels of consumer and industrial demand; • the rate of discovery of new oil and natural gas reserves; • domestic and foreign tax policies; • acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere; • the development and use of alternative energy sources; and • the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and natural gas reserves. Our operations were impacted by the 2010 drilling rig accident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and its consequences and could be adversely affected in the future On April 22, 2010, the Deepwater Horizon, a deepwater drilling rig owned by another contractor that was operating in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, sank after an apparent blowout and fire (Macondo well blowout). In response to the incident, on May 30, 2010, the BOEMRE, of the U.S. Department of the Interior, at the time known as the Minerals Management Service implemented a moratorium on certain drilling activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico (GOM). On October 12, 2010, the BOEMRE announced that it was lifting the moratorium subject to certain specified conditions. During the pendency of the moratorium, the BOEMRE implemented various environmental, technological and safety measures intended to improve offshore safety systems and environmental protection. Among other things, each operator is required to conduct a specific review of its operations and to certify to the BOEMRE that it is in compliance with the new requirements and current regulations. Operators are also required to submit independent third-party reports on the design and operation of certain pieces of drilling equipment, including blowout preventers (BOPs) and other well control systems and to conduct tests on the functionality of various rig parts and to submit the results of those tests to the BOEMRE. Additional regulations address new standards for certain equipment involved in the construction of offshore wells, especially BOPs, and require operators to implement and enforce a safety and environmental management system including regular third-party audits of safety procedures and drilling equipment to insure that offshore rig personnel and equipment remain in compliance with the new regulations. With respect to operations that were subject to the moratorium, the reports and certifications are required to be provided to the BOEMRE prior to commencement of operations following expiration of the moratorium. 15 Table of Contents As a consequence of the Macondo well blowout, the resulting moratorium, increased regulation and longer times to obtain required permits, offshore drilling operations in the GOM have been significantly reduced. Although we had no ongoing drilling operations directly subject to the now lifted moratorium, our Rental Tools segment has customers with operations that were negatively affected. In addition, some contract drillers and operators with floating rigs located in the region have chosen to relocate the units to other international drilling areas. We cannot currently predict the rate at which new well permits will be issued or the rate at which rigs will be allowed to return to work once compliance with the new regulations has been demonstrated. The process followed by the BOEMRE to review and approve well permit applications is likely to continue to be protracted relative to past experience, resulting in significant delays in the resumption of drilling in deepwater GOM that could persist through 2011. Significant continuing delay in the issuance of drilling permits or the resumption of operations, the possibility of additional regulations and government oversight and the possibility of increased legal liability could cause additional floating rigs to depart the U.S. GOM, with fewer customers operating in the region. If this were to occur, the market for our rental tools could be further adversely affected. Continued effects of the economic recession may result in lower demand for our drilling rigs and rental tools business, which could have a material adverse effect on our drilling, project management and engineering services and rental tool business. Continued effects of the economic recession or a further slowdown in economic activity could lead to uncertainty in corporate credit availability and capital market access and could reduce worldwide demand for energy and result in lower crude oil and natural gas prices. Our business depends to a significant extent on the level of international onshore drilling activity and GOM inland and offshore drilling activity for oil and natural gas. Depressed oil and gas prices will reduce the level of exploration, development and production activity which could cause our revenues and margins to decline, decrease daily rates and utilization of our rigs and limit our future growth prospects. Any significant decrease in daily rates or utilization of our rigs could materially reduce our revenue and profitability. In addition, current and potential customers who depend on financing for their drilling projects may be forced to curtail or delay projects and may also experience an inability to pay suppliers and service providers, including us. Likewise, continued effects of the economic recession also could impact our vendors’ and suppliers’ ability to meet obligations to provide materials and services in general. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Rig upgrade, refurbishment and construction projects are subject to risks and uncertainties, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. We regularly make significant expenditures in connection with upgrading and refurbishing our rig fleet. These activities include planned upgrades to maintain quality standards, routine maintenance and repairs, changes made at the request of customers, and changes made to comply with environmental or other regulations. Rig upgrade, refurbishment and construction projects are subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project, including the following: • shortages of equipment or skilled labor; • unforeseen engineering problems; • unanticipated change orders; • work stoppages; • adverse weather conditions; • unexpectedly long delivery times for manufactured rig components; • unanticipated repairs to correct defects in construction not covered by warranty; • failure or delay of third-party equipment vendors or service providers; • unforeseen increases in the cost of equipment, labor or raw materials, particularly steel; 16 Table of Contents • disputes with customers, shipyards or suppliers; • latent damages or deterioration to hull, equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions; • financial or other difficulties with current customers at shipyards and suppliers; • loss of revenue associated with downtime to remedy malfunctioning equipment not covered by warranty; • unanticipated cost increases; • loss of revenue and payments of liquidated damages for downtime to perform repairs associated with defects, unanticipated equipment refurbishment and delays in commencement of operations; and • inability to obtain the required permits or approvals, including import/export documentation. Any one of the above risks could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Delays in the delivery of rigs being constructed or undergoing upgrade, refurbishment or repair may, in many cases, delay commencement of a drilling contract resulting in a loss of revenue to us, and may also cause our customer to renegotiate the drilling contract for the rig or terminate or shorten the term of the contract under applicable late delivery clauses, if any. If one of these contracts is terminated, we may not be able to secure a replacement contract on as favorable terms, if at all. Additionally, capital expenditures for rig upgrade, refurbishment or construction projects could exceed our planned capital expenditures, impairing our ability to service our debt obligations. Failure to retain skilled and experienced personnel could affect our operations. We require highly skilled and experienced personnel to provide our customers with the highest quality technical services and support for our drilling operations. We compete with other oilfield services businesses and other employers to attract and retain qualified personnel with the technical skills and experience we require. Competition for skilled labor and other labor required for our operations intensifies as the number of rigs activated or added to worldwide fleets or under construction increases, creating upward pressure on wages. In periods of high utilization, we have found it more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. A shortage in the available labor pool of skilled workers or other general inflationary pressures or changes in applicable laws and regulations could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain personnel and could require us to enhance our wage and benefits packages. Increases in our operating costs could adversely affect our business and financial results. Moreover, the shortages of qualified personnel or the inability to obtain and retain qualified personnel could negatively affect the quality, safety and timeliness of our operations. Our debt levels and debt agreement restrictions may limit our liquidity and flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. As of December 31, 2010, we had: • $460.9 million of long-term debt and $9.1 million of unamortized debt discount which is included in equity pursuant to applicable accounting standards for convertible debt instruments; • $12.0 million of current portion of long-term debt; • $31.5 million of operating lease commitments; and • $16.3 million of standby letters of credit. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations depends on our ability to generate positive cash flows from operations. We have in the past, and may in the future, incur negative cash flows from one or more segments of our operating activities. Our future cash flows from operating activities will be influenced by the demand for our drilling services, the utilization of our rigs, the dayrates that we receive for our rigs, demand for our rental tools, general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. 17 Table of Contents If we are unable to service our debt obligations, we may have to take one or more of the following actions: • delay spending on capital projects, including maintenance projects and the acquisition or construction of additional rigs, rental tools and other assets; • sell equity securities, sell assets; or • restructure or refinance our debt. Additional indebtedness or equity financing may not be available to us in the future for the refinancing or repayment of existing indebtedness, or if available, such additional indebtedness or equity financing may not be available on a timely basis, or on terms acceptable to us and within the limitations specified in our then existing debt instruments. In addition, in the event we decide to sell assets, we can provide no assurance as to the timing of any asset sales or the proceeds that could be realized by us from any such asset sale. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness is subject to certain market conditions and other factors which are beyond our control. Increases in the level of our debt and restrictions in the covenants contained in the instruments governing our debt could have important consequences to you. For example, they could: • result in a reduction of our credit rating, which would make it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operating activities to the repayment of our debt and the interest associated with our debt; • limit our operating flexibility due to financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on incurring additional debt, and create liens on our properties; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have relatively less debt; and • make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business. Our current operations and future growth may require significant additional capital, and the amount of our indebtedness could impair our ability to fund our capital requirements. Our business requires substantial capital. Currently, we anticipate that our capital expenditures in 2011 will be approximately $160 to $175 million, including approximately $75 to $85 million for maintenance projects and investments in rental tool equipment. We may require additional capital in the event of significant departures from our current business plan or unanticipated expenses. Sources of funding for our future capital requirements may include any or all of the following: • cash on hand; • funds generated from our operations; • public offerings or private placements of equity and debt securities; • commercial bank loans; • capital leases; and • sales of assets. Additional financing may not be available on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us and within the limitations contained in the indentures governing the 9.125% Senior Notes and the 2.125% Convertible Senior Notes and the documentation governing our senior secured credit facility. Failure to obtain appropriate financing, should the need for it develop, could impair our ability to fund our capital expenditure requirements and meet our debt service requirements and could have an adverse effect on our business. 18 Table of Contents Certain of our contracts are subject to cancellation or delay by our customers without penalty and with little or no notice. Certain of our contracts are subject to cancellation by our customers without penalty and with relatively little or no notice. When drilling market conditions are depressed, a customer may no longer need a rig that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable rig at a lower daily rate. Further, due to government actions, a customer may no longer be able to operate in, or it may not be economical to operate in, certain regions. As a result, customers may leverage their termination rights in an effort to renegotiate contract terms. Our customers may also seek to terminate drilling contracts if we experience operational problems. If our equipment fails to function properly and cannot be repaired promptly, we will not be able to engage in drilling operations, and customers may have the right to terminate the drilling contracts. In our construction operations, if a rig is not timely delivered to a customer or does not pass acceptance testing, a customer may in certain circumstances have the right to terminate the contract. Even the payment of a termination fee may not fully compensate us for the loss of the contract. Early termination of a contract may result in a rig being idle for an extended period of time. The likelihood that a customer may seek to terminate a contract is increased during periods of market weakness. The cancellation or renegotiation of a number of our drilling contracts could materially reduce our revenue and profitability. In November 2010, BP suspended construction on the Liberty extended-reach drilling rig in Alaska, which is the sole project in our construction contract segment, and our construction contract has expired. In addition, our O&M contract with respect to the Liberty rig is scheduled to expire on June 1, 2011. BP has identified several areas of concern for which it has asked us to provide explanation and documentation, and we have done so. It is not possible to predict when or if BP will resume construction on the Liberty rig, or what additional actions it may request that we take with respect to the areas of concern it has raised. For more information about the status of the Liberty project, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Other Matters — “Liberty Project Status.” We rely on a small number of customers and the loss of a significant customer could adversely affect us. A substantial percentage of our revenues are generated from a relatively small number of customers and the loss of a major customer could adversely affect us. In 2010, our two largest customers, BP and ExxonMobil (including subsidiaries and joint ventures) accounted for approximately 12.4 percent and 11.6 percent of our total revenues, respectively. Our revenues associated with BP are primarily for the construction of the BP-owned Liberty rig. Our revenues from ExxonMobil are primarily for drilling-related services. Our ten most significant customers collectively accounted for approximately 58.0 percent of our total revenues in 2010. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if any of our significant customers terminate their contracts with us, fail to renew our existing contracts or refuse to award new contracts to us. The contract drilling and the rental tools businesses are highly competitive and cyclical, with intense price competition. The contract drilling and rental tools markets are highly competitive and although we believe no single competitor is dominant, many of our competitors in both the contract drilling and rental tools business may possess greater financial resources than we do. Some of our competitors also are incorporated in countries that may provide them with significant tax advantages that are not available to us as a U.S. company and which may impair our ability to compete with them for many projects. Contract drilling companies compete primarily on a regional basis, and competition may vary significantly from region to region at any particular time. Many drilling and workover rigs can be moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity, provided market conditions warrant, which may result in an oversupply of rigs in an area. Many competitors have constructed numerous rigs during the previous period of high energy prices and, consequently, the number of rigs available in some of the markets in which we operate has exceeded the demand for rigs for extended periods of time, resulting in intense price competition. Most drilling and workover contracts are awarded on the basis of competitive bids, which also results in price competition. Historically, the drilling service industry has been highly cyclical, with periods of high demand, limited rig supply and high dayrates often followed by periods of low demand, excess rig supply and low dayrates. Periods of 19 Table of Contents low demand and excess rig supply intensify the competition in the industry and often result in rigs being idle for long periods of time. During periods of decreased demand we typically experience significant reductions in dayrates and utilization. If we experience reductions in dayrates or if we cannot keep our rigs operating, our financial performance will be adversely impacted. Prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates could result in the recognition of impairment charges on certain of our rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable. Our international operations are also subject to governmental regulation and other risks. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from our international operations. In 2010, we derived approximately 45 percent of our revenues from operations in countries outside the United States. Our international operations are subject to the following risks, among others: • political, social and economic instability, war, terrorism and civil disturbances; • limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk coverage, in certain areas; • expropriation, confiscatory taxation and nationalization of our assets; • foreign laws and governmental regulation, including inconsistencies and unexpected changes in laws or regulatory requirements, and changes in interpretations or enforcement of existing laws or regulations; • increases in governmental royalties; • import-export quotas or trade barriers; • hiring and retaining skilled and experienced workers, many of whom are represented by foreign labor unions; • work stoppages; • damage to our equipment or violence directed at our employees, including kidnapping; • piracy of vessels transporting our people or equipment; • unfavorable changes in foreign monetary and tax policies; • solicitation by government officials for improper payments or other forms of corruption; • foreign currency fluctuations and restrictions on currency repatriation; • repudiation, nullification, modification or renegotiation of contracts; and • other forms of governmental regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control. We currently have operations in 12 countries. Our operations are subject to interruption, suspension and possible expropriation due to terrorism, war, civil disturbances, political and capital instability and similar events, and we have previously suffered loss of revenue and damage to equipment due to political violence. Recent civil and political disturbances in Tunisia, Egypt, Libya and other North African countries may affect our operations. We currently have 2 rigs in Algeria. To the extent that Algeria experiences similar events, our operations in Algeria could be adversely affected. We may not be able to obtain insurance policies covering risks associated with these types of events, especially political violence coverage, and such policies may only be available with premiums that are not commercially justifiable. Our international operations are subject to the laws and regulations of a number of foreign countries whose political, regulatory and judicial systems and regimes may differ significantly from those in the United States. Our ability to compete in international contract drilling markets may be adversely affected by foreign governmental regulations and/or policies that favor the awarding of contracts to contractors in which nationals of those foreign countries have substantial ownership interests or by regulations requiring foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. Furthermore, our foreign subsidiaries may face governmentally imposed restrictions or fees from time to time on the transfer of funds to us. 20 Table of Contents In addition, tax and other laws and regulations in some foreign countries are not always interpreted consistently among local, regional and national authorities, which often results in good faith disputes between us and governing authorities. The ultimate outcome of these disputes is never certain, and it is possible that the outcomes could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. A portion of the workers we employ in our international operations are members of labor unions or otherwise subject to collective bargaining. We may not be able to hire and retain a sufficient number of skilled and experienced workers for wages and other benefits that we believe are commercially reasonable. We may experience currency exchange losses where revenues are received or expenses are paid in nonconvertible currencies or where we do not take protective measures against exposure to a foreign currency. We may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. Given the international scope of our operations, we are exposed to risks of currency fluctuation and restrictions on currency repatriation. We attempt to limit the risks of currency fluctuation and restrictions on currency repatriation where possible by obtaining contracts payable in U.S. dollars or freely convertible foreign currency. In addition, some parties with which we do business could require that all or a portion of our revenues be paid in local currencies. Foreign currency fluctuations therefore could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations and financial condition. The shipment of goods, services and technology across international borders subjects us to extensive trade laws and regulations. Our import activities are governed by the unique customs laws and regulations in each of the countries where we operate. Moreover, many countries, including the U.S., control the export and re-export of certain goods, services and technology and impose related export recordkeeping and reporting obligations. Governments may also impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons and other entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons and entities. The laws and regulations concerning import activity, export recordkeeping and reporting, export control and economic sanctions are complex and constantly changing. These laws and regulations can cause delays in shipments and unscheduled operational downtime. Moreover, any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory trading obligations could result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from governmental contracts, seizure of shipments and loss of import and export privileges. We are subject to hazards customary for drilling operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance if we are not adequately indemnified or insured. Substantially all of our operations are subject to hazards that are customary for oil and natural gas drilling operations, including blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of well control, cratering, oil and natural gas well fires and explosions, natural disasters, pollution and mechanical failure. Our offshore operations also are subject to hazards inherent in marine operations, such as capsizing, sinking, grounding, collision and damage from severe weather conditions. Any of these risks could result in damage to or destruction of drilling equipment, personal injury and property damage, suspension of operations or environmental damage. We have had accidents in the past demonstrating some of these hazards. To the extent that we are unable to insure against these risks or to obtain indemnification agreements to adequately protect us against liability from all of the consequences of the hazards and risks described above, then the occurrence of an event not fully insured or for which we are not indemnified against, or the failure of a customer or insurer to meet its indemnification or insurance obligations, could result in substantial losses. In addition, insurance may not continue to be available to cover any or all of these risks. For example, pollution, reservoir damage and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Even if such insurance is available, insurance premiums or other costs may rise significantly in the future, so as to make the cost of such insurance prohibitive. For a description of our indemnification obligations and insurance, please read Item 1. “Business — Insurance and Indemnification.” Certain areas in and near the GOM are subject to hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions. When operating in the GOM, our drilling rigs and rental tools may be located in areas that could cause them to be susceptible to damage or total loss by these storms. In addition, damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas to 21 Table of Contents our rigs, our shore bases and our corporate infrastructure could potentially cause us to curtail operations for significant periods of time until the effects of the damages can be repaired. The oil and natural gas industry has sustained several catastrophic losses in recent years, including damage from hurricanes in the GOM. As a result, insurance underwriters have increased insurance premiums and restricted certain insurance coverage such as for losses arising from a named windstorm. Although not a hazard specific to our drilling operations, we could incur significant liability in the event of loss or damage to proprietary data of operators or third parties during our transmission of this valuable data. Government regulations and environmental risks, which reduce our business opportunities and increase our operating costs, might become more stringent in the future. Government regulations control and often limit access to potential markets and impose extensive requirements concerning employee safety, environmental protection, pollution control and remediation of environmental contamination. Environmental regulations, in particular, prohibit access to some markets locations and make others less economical, increase equipment and personnel costs, and often impose liability without regard to negligence or fault. In addition, governmental regulations, such as those related to climate change, may discourage our customers’ activities, reducing demand for our products and services. We may be liable for damages resulting from pollution of offshore waters and, under United States regulations, must establish financial responsibility in order to drill offshore. See Part I, Business, “Environmental Considerations.” Regulation of greenhouse gases and climate change could have a negative impact on our business. Some scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases” (GHGs) and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. In response to such studies, the issue of climate change and the effect of GHG emissions, in particular emissions from fossil fuels, is attracting increasing attention worldwide. Legislative and regulatory measures to address concerns that emissions of GHGs are contributing to climate change are in various phases of discussions or implementation at the international, national, regional and state levels. In 2005, the Kyoto Protocol to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which establishes a binding set of emission targets for GHGs, became binding on the countries that had ratified it. International discussions are underway to develop a treaty to replace the Kyoto Protocol after its expiration in 2012. In the United States, federal legislation imposing restrictions on GHGs is under consideration. In addition, the EPA is taking steps that would result in the regulation of GHGs as pollutants under the Clean Air Act (the CAA). To date, the EPA has issued (i) a “Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases” final rule, effective December 29, 2009, which establishes a new comprehensive scheme requiring operators of stationary sources in the United States emitting more than established annual thresholds of carbon dioxide-equivalent GHGs to inventory and report their GHG emissions annually; (ii) an “Endangerment Finding” final rule, effective January 14, 2010, which states that current and projected concentrations of six key GHGs in the atmosphere, as well as emissions from new motor vehicles and new motor vehicle engines, threaten public health and welfare, which allowed the EPA to finalize motor vehicle GHG standards (the effect of which could reduce demand for motor fuels refined from crude oil); and (iii) a final rule, effective August 2, 2010, to address permitting of GHG emissions from stationary sources under the CAA’s Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) and Title V programs. This final rule “tailors” the PSD and Title V programs to apply to certain stationary sources of GHG emissions in a multi-step process, with the largest sources first subject to permitting. Finally, on November 8, 2010, the EPA finalized new GHG reporting requirements for upstream petroleum and natural gas systems, which will be added to the EPA’s GHG reporting rule. Facilities containing petroleum and natural gas systems that emit 25,000 metric tons or more of CO2 equivalent per year will now be required to report annual GHG emissions to EPA, with the first report due on March 31, 2012. Because our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, existing or future laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements related to GHGs and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, could have a negative impact on our business if such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements reduce the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or otherwise result in reduced economic activity generally. In addition, such laws, regulations, treaties or international 22 Table of Contents agreements could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, which may have a negative impact on our business. In addition to potential impacts on our business directly or indirectly resulting from climate-change legislation or regulations, our business also could be negatively affected by climate-change related physical changes or changes in weather patterns. An increase in severe weather patterns could result in damages to or loss of our rigs, impact our ability to conduct our operations and/or result in a disruption of our customers’ operations. We are regularly involved in litigation, some of which may be material. We are regularly involved in litigation, claims and disputes incidental to our business, which at times involve claims for significant monetary amounts, some of which would not be covered by insurance. We undertake all reasonable steps to defend ourselves in such lawsuits. Nevertheless, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such lawsuits and any resolution which is adverse to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. See Note 11, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a discussion of the material legal proceedings affecting us. We are currently conducting an investigation into possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and other laws concerning our international operations. The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice are conducting parallel investigations into possible FCPA violations. If we are found to have violated the FCPA or other legal requirements, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, which could materially harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. As previously disclosed, we received requests from the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) in July 2007 and the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) in January 2008 relating to our utilization of the services of a customs agent. The DOJ and the SEC are conducting parallel investigations into possible violations of U.S. law by the Company, including the FCPA. In particular, the DOJ and the SEC are investigating our use of customs agents in certain countries in which we currently operate or formerly operated, including Kazakhstan and Nigeria. The Company is fully cooperating with the DOJ and SEC investigations and is conducting an internal investigation into potential customs and other issues in Kazakhstan and Nigeria. The internal investigation identified issues relating to potential non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including the FCPA with respect to operations in Kazakhstan and Nigeria. At this point, we are unable to predict the duration, scope or result of the DOJ or the SEC investigation or whether either agency will commence any legal action. Further, in connection with our internal investigation, we also have learned that an individual who may be considered a foreign official under the FCPA owns in trust a substantial stake in a foreign subcontractor with whom we formerly conducted business through a joint venture relationship in Kazakhstan. The joint venture no longer does business with the foreign subcontractor. The DOJ and the SEC have a broad range of civil and criminal sanctions under the FCPA and other laws and regulations, which they may seek to impose against corporations and individuals in appropriate circumstances including, but not limited to, injunctive relief, disgorgement, fines, penalties and modifications to business practices and compliance programs. These authorities have entered into agreements with, and obtained a range of sanctions against, several public corporations and individuals arising from allegations of improper payments and deficiencies in books and records and internal controls, whereby civil and criminal penalties were imposed. Recent civil and criminal settlements have included multi-million dollar fines, deferred prosecution agreements, guilty pleas, and other sanctions, including the requirement that the relevant corporation retain a monitor to oversee its compliance with the FCPA. In addition, corporations may have to end or modify existing business relationships. Any of these remedial measures, if applicable to us, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 23 Table of Contents We are subject to laws and regulations concerning our international operations, including export restrictions, U.S. economic sanctions and other activities that we conduct abroad. We have conducted an internal review concerning our compliance with these legal requirements and have voluntarily disclosed the results of our review to the U.S. government. If we are not in compliance with applicable legal requirements, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and other remedial measures, which could materially harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We are subject to laws and regulations restricting our international operations, including activities involving restricted countries, organizations, entities and persons that have been identified as unlawful actors or that are subject to U.S. economic sanctions. Pursuant to an internal review, we have identified certain shipments of equipment and supplies that were routed through Iran as well as other activities, including drilling activities, which may have violated applicable U.S. laws and regulations. We have reviewed these shipments, transactions and drilling activities to determine whether the timing, nature and extent of such activities or other conduct may have given rise to violations of these laws and regulations, and we voluntarily disclosed the results of our review to the U.S. government. At this point, we are unable to predict whether the government will initiate an investigation or any proceedings against us, or the ultimate outcome that may result from our voluntary disclosure. If U.S. enforcement authorities determine that we were not in compliance with export restrictions, U.S. economic sanctions or other laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and other remedial measures, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, which could adversely impact the demand for rental tools. Hydraulic fracturing is a process sometimes used in the completion of oil and gas wells whereby water, sand and chemicals are injected under pressure into subsurface formations to stimulate gas and, to a lesser extent, oil production. The EPA recently initiated a study to investigate the potential adverse impacts that fracturing may have on water quality and public health. Legislation has also been introduced in the U.S. Congress and some states that would require the disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process. If enacted, the legislation could cause operational delays or increased costs in exploration and production, which could adversely affect the demand for our rental tools. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate in response to various factors and events, most of which are beyond our control, including the following: • the other risk factors described in this Form 10-K, including changes in oil and natural gas prices; • a shortfall in rig utilization, operating revenue or net income from that expected by securities analysts and investors; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of the financial performance of us or our competitors or the financial performance of companies in the oilfield service industry generally; • changes in actual or market expectations with respect to the amounts of exploration and development spending by oil and gas companies; • general conditions in the economy and in energy-related industries; • general conditions in the securities markets; • political instability, terrorism or war; and • the outcome of pending and future legal proceedings, investigations, tax assessments and other claims. 24 Table of Contents A hostile takeover of our company would be difficult. Some of the provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and of the Delaware General Corporation Law may make it difficult for a hostile suitor to acquire control of our company and to replace our incumbent management. For example, our Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides for a staggered Board of Directors and permits the Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to issue additional shares of common stock or a new series of preferred stock. Risks Related to our Debt Securities We may not be able to repurchase our 9.125% Senior Notes upon a change of control. Upon the occurrence of specific change of control events affecting us, the holders of our 9.125% Senior Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase our notes at 101 percent of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Our ability to repurchase our notes upon such a change of control event would be limited by our access to funds at the time of the repurchase and the terms of our other debt agreements. Upon a change of control event, we may be required immediately to repay the outstanding principal, any accrued interest on and any other amounts owed by us under our senior secured credit facilities, our notes and other outstanding indebtedness. The source of funds for these repayments would be our available cash or cash generated from other sources. However, we may not have sufficient funds available upon a change of control to make any required repurchases of this outstanding indebtedness. In addition, the change of control provisions in the indenture governing our 9.125% Senior Notes may not protect the holders of our notes from certain important corporate events, such as a leveraged recapitalization (which would increase the level of our indebtedness), reorganization, restructuring, merger or other similar transaction, unless such transaction constitutes a “Change of Control” under the indenture. Such a transaction may not involve a change in voting power or beneficial ownership or, even if it does, may not involve a change that constitutes a “Change of Control” as defined in the indenture that would trigger our obligation to repurchase the notes. Therefore, if an event occurs that does not constitute a “Change of Control” as defined in the indenture, we will not be required to make an offer to repurchase the notes and the holders may be required to continue to hold their notes despite the event. We may not have sufficient cash to repurchase the 2.125% Convertible Senior Notes at the option of the holder upon a fundamental change or to pay the cash payable upon a conversion. Upon the occurrence of a fundamental change as defined in the indenture governing our 2.125% Convertible Senior Notes, subject to certain conditions, we will be required to make an offer to repurchase for cash all outstanding notes at 100 percent of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, including additional amounts, if any, up to but not including the date of repurchase. In addition, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation entirely in shares of our common stock, upon a conversion, we will be required to make a cash payment of up to $1,000 for each $1,000 in principal amount of notes converted. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of tendered notes or settlement of converted notes. Additionally, any credit facility in place at the time of a repurchase or conversion of the notes may also limit our ability to use borrowings under that credit facility to pay for a repurchase or conversion of the notes and may prohibit us from making any cash payments on the repurchase or conversion of the notes if a default or event of default has occurred under that facility without the consent of the lenders under that credit facility. Our failure to repurchase tendered notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture or to pay any cash payable on a conversion of the notes would constitute a default under the indenture. A default under the indenture or the fundamental change itself could lead to a default under the other existing and future agreements governing our indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the notes or make cash payments upon conversion thereof. 25 Table of Contents The indenture for our 9.125% Senior Notes and our senior secured credit agreement impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some actions. The indenture governing our 9.125% Senior Notes and the agreement governing our senior secured credit facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to: • make investments and other restricted payments, including dividends; • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens; • engage in sale leaseback transactions; • sell our assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies; and • engage in transactions with affiliates. These limitations are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions. Our senior secured credit agreement also requires us to maintain ratios for consolidated leverage, consolidated interest coverage and consolidated senior secured leverage. These covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations and capital needs and to pursue available business opportunities. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default with respect to the related indebtedness. If a default were to occur, the holders of our 9.125% Senior Notes and the lenders under our senior secured credit facility could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable. If the repayment of the indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness. DISCLOSURE NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Form 10-K contains statements that are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. All statements contained in this Form 10-K, other than statements of historical facts, are forward-looking statements for purposes of these provisions, including any statements regarding: • stability of prices and demand for oil and natural gas; • levels of oil and natural gas exploration and production activities; • demand for contract drilling and drilling-related services and demand for rental tools; • our future operating results and profitability; • our future rig utilization, dayrates and rental tools activity; • entering into new, or extending existing, drilling contracts and our expectations concerning when our rigs will commence operations under such contracts; • growth through acquisitions of companies or assets; • construction or upgrades of rigs and expectations regarding when these rigs will commence operations; • capital expenditures for acquisition of rigs, construction of new rigs or major upgrades to existing rigs; • scheduled delivery of drilling rigs for operation in Alaska under the terms of our agreement with BP Exploration (Alaska) Inc.; • entering into joint venture agreements; • our future liquidity; • availability and sources of funds to reduce our debt and expectations of when debt will be reduced; 26 Table of Contents • the outcome of pending or future legal proceedings, investigations, tax assessments and other claims; • the availability of insurance coverage for pending or future claims; • the enforceability of contractual indemnification in relation to pending or future claims; • compliance with covenants under our senior secured credit facility and indentures for our senior notes; and • organic growth of our operations. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “outlook,” “may,” “should,” “will” and “would” or similar words. Forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions and analyses made by our management in light of their experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe are relevant. Although our management believes that their assumptions are reasonable based on information currently available, those assumptions are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. The following factors, as well as any other cautionary language included in this Form 10-K, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements: • worldwide economic and business conditions that adversely affect market conditions and/or the cost of doing business; • our inability to access the credit markets; • the U.S. economy and the demand for natural gas; • worldwide demand for oil; • fluctuations in the market prices of oil and natural gas; • imposition of unanticipated trade restrictions; • unanticipated operating hazards and uninsured risks; • political instability, terrorism or war; • governmental regulations, including changes in accounting rules or tax laws or ability to remit funds to the U.S., that adversely affect the cost of doing business; • changes in the tax laws that would allow double taxation on foreign sourced income; • the outcome of our investigation and the parallel investigations by the SEC and the Department of Justice into possible violations of U.S. law, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • contemplated U.S. legislation on carbon emissions; • potential new “employer” taxes on U.S. health care plans; • adverse environmental events; • adverse weather conditions; • global health concerns; • changes in the concentration of customer and supplier relationships; • ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing for their operations; • unexpected cost increases for new construction and upgrade and refurbishment projects; • delays in obtaining components for capital projects and in ongoing operational maintenance and equipment certifications; • shortages of skilled labor; 27 Table of Contents • unanticipated cancellation of contracts by operators; • breakdown of equipment; • other operational problems including delays in start-up of operations; • changes in competition; • the effect of litigation and contingencies; and • other similar factors , some of which are discussed in documents referred to or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and our other reports and filings with the SEC. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this Form 10-K, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Before you decide to invest in our securities, you should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-K could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 