Item 1A Risk Factors. Our Strategy Our strategy is to maintain and leverage our position as a leading provider of drilling, project management and rental tools services to the energy industry. Our goal is to position our Company as the “contractor of choice” by providing dependable drilling performance, innovative drilling solutions and high-quality rental tools services. We manage our operations in accordance with a long-term strategic growth plan. Key elements in our strategy include: Pursuing Strategic Growth Opportunities. We are in the process of growing a fleet of preferred rigs that will be utilized regardless of the position in the energy business cycle. In 2006, we completed the construction of a 3,000 HP barge rig for use in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Two of four new 2,000 HP international land rigs were delivered early in 2007 for drilling operations in Algeria. The remaining two rigs under construction are expected to be delivered in the second and third quarters of 2007. The scope of our joint venture in Saudi Arabia has expanded from four rigs to six, with four of the 1,500 HP land rigs in country and rigging up for expected spud dates in the first half of 2007. Our new rental tools facility will open in March of 2007 and will include a new storage and inspection location. Sustaining the High Utilization of Our Barge and Land Rigs. Another one of our strategic objectives is to sustain the high utilization of our barge and land rigs with strategic placement in areas which evidence long term development opportunities. Our preventive maintenance program allows dependable operating efficiency, minimizing down time and creating “contractor of choice” mentality for contract extensions or renewals. 2 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS (continued) Our Strategy (continued) Focusing on an Efficiency-Based Operating Philosophy for Operating Costs, Preventive Maintenance and Capital Expenditures. We continue to be vigilant in minimizing embedded administration and operations costs. During 2006, we implemented planning and forecasting tools that facilitate the review of all costs. Our operating philosophy emphasizes continuous improvement of processes, equipment standardization and global quality, safety and supply chain management. In early 2007, we implemented new supply chain management and reporting systems. Capital expenditures are aligned with core objectives and aggressive preventive maintenance programs. Continuing to Reduce Our Debt to Capitalization Ratio and Enhance Our Liquidity. Our long-term goal is to reduce our debt to capitalization ratio to be in the 30 percent range. Since the establishment of this goal, we have reduced our debt to capitalization ratio to 42 percent from a high of 76 percent. We expect to achieve our long-term goal by reducing our debt and interest costs and reporting strong earnings in the next few years. Our Competitive Strengths Our competitive strengths have historically contributed to our operating performance and we believe the following strengths enhance our outlook for the future: Geographically Diverse Operations and Assets. We currently operate in Algeria, Bangladesh, China, Colombia, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Libya, Mexico, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Russia, Saudi Arabia and the United States. Since our founding in 1934, we have operated in 53 foreign countries and the United States, making us among the most geographically diverse drilling contractors in the world. Our international revenues constituted approximately 47 percent of our total revenues in 2006. Our core international land drilling operations focus primarily on the CIS region, where we have eight land rigs; the Asia Pacific region, where we have nine land rigs, including seven helicopter transportable rigs; and Latin America, where we are operating two land rigs and one land rig in the Middle East. Our international offshore drilling operations focus on the Caspian Sea, where we own and operate the world’s largest arctic-class barge rig; and Mexico, where we have one barge rig. We currently have 17 drilling and workover barge rigs in the shallow water transition zones of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, and three land rigs in the U.S. domestic region. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. Outstanding Safety, Preventive Maintenance, Inventory Control and Training Programs. We have an outstanding safety record. In 2006, we achieved the lowest Total Recordable Incident Rate (“TRIR”) in our history. Our safety record, as evidenced by our low TRIR, has made us a leader in occupational injury prevention for the last nine years. This, along with integrated quality and safety management systems, preventive maintenance, and supply chain management programs, has contributed to our success in obtaining drilling contracts, as well as contracts to manage and provide labor resources to drilling rigs owned by third parties. Our training center provides safety and technical training curriculums in four different languages and provides regulatory compliance training throughout the world. Strong and Experienced Senior Management Team. Our management team has extensive experience in the contract drilling industry. Our chairman, Robert L. Parker Jr. joined Parker Drilling in 1973 and has served as our president and chief executive officer since 1991 and chairman of the board since April 2006. Under the leadership of Mr. Parker Jr., we have sustained a reputation as a leading worldwide provider of contract drilling services. David C. Mannon joined our senior management team in late 2004 as senior vice president and chief operating officer. Prior to joining Parker Drilling, Mr. Mannon served in various managerial positions, culminating with his appointment as president and chief executive officer for Triton Engineering Services Company, a subsidiary of Noble Drilling. He brings a broad range of over 25 years of experience to our drilling operations which enhances our ability to achieve our goals of increased utilization and profitable growth. Our chief financial officer, W. Kirk Brassfield, joined Parker Drilling in 1998 and has served in 3 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS (continued) Our Competitive Strengths (continued) several executive positions including vice president, controller and principal accounting officer. He brings 27 years of experience to the management team, including 15 years in the oil and gas industry. Project Management We are active in managing and providing labor resources for drilling rigs owned by third parties. In Russia, we designed, constructed and sold a rig to Exxon Neftegas Limited (“ENL”) and currently manage drilling operations under a five-year Operations and Maintenance (“O&M”) contract that began in June 2003. We also supervised construction of a second rig to drill from the Orlan platform and began a five-year O&M contract for ENL offshore Sakhalin, Russia in September 2005. Throughout 2006, we managed two projects in Papua New Guinea under full O&M contracts that began the third quarter of 2005. We are currently assisting with the construction of an operator-owned helicopter rig for the Papua New Guinea market and will provide operation and maintenance services once the rig is mobilized. We also provided labor services on third party-owned drilling rigs in Kuwait, China, Peru and Colombia in 2006. Competition The contract drilling industry is a highly competitive business characterized by high capital requirements and challenges in securing and retaining qualified field personnel. We are one of two major contractors that compete in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico barge drilling market. In international land markets, we compete with a number of international drilling contractors as well as smaller local contractors. National drilling contractors have increased competition in international markets in recent years. These national drilling contractors can typically operate at lower costs due to reduced labor and import costs. However, we are generally able to distinguish ourselves from these national companies based on our technical expertise, quality of our equipment, repair and maintenance, our experience and our safety record. In international land and offshore markets, our experience in operating in challenging environments has been a factor in securing contracts. We believe that the market for drilling contracts, both land and offshore, will continue to be highly competitive for the foreseeable future. Our management believes that Quail Tools is one of the leading rental tools companies in the offshore Gulf of Mexico and other major U.S. energy producing markets. See Item 1A for additional information. Customers We have developed a reputation for providing efficient, safe, environmentally conscious and innovative drilling services. An increasing trend indicates that a number of our customers have been seeking to establish exploration or development drilling programs based on partnering relationships or alliances with a limited number of preferred drilling contractors. Such relationships or alliances can result in longer-term work and higher efficiencies that increase profitability for drilling contractors at a lower overall well cost for oil and gas operators. We are currently a preferred contractor for operators in certain U.S. and international locations which our management believes is a result of our quality of equipment, personnel, safety program, service and experience. Our drilling and rental tools customer base consists of major, independent and national-owned oil and gas companies and integrated service providers. In 2006, ExxonMobil accounted for approximately 14 percent of our total revenues, and Chevron accounted for approximately 8 percent of our total revenues. Our ten most significant customers collectively accounted for approximately 52 percent of our total revenues in 2006. 4 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS (continued) Contracts Most drilling contracts are awarded based on competitive bidding. The rates specified in drilling contracts are generally on a dayrate basis, and vary depending upon the type of rig employed, equipment and services supplied, geographic location, term of the contract, competitive conditions and other variables. Our contracts generally provide for a basic dayrate during drilling operations, with lower rates for periods of equipment breakdown, adverse weather or other conditions, or no payment if the conditions continue beyond a certain time. When a rig mobilizes to or demobilizes from an operating area, the contract typically provides for a different dayrate or specified fixed payments, during the mobilization or demobilization. The terms of most of our contracts are based on either a specified period of time or the time required to drill a specified number of wells. The contract term in some instances may be extended by the customer exercising options for the drilling of additional wells or for an additional time period, or by exercising a right of first refusal. Most of our contracts may be terminated by the customer prior to the end of the term without penalty under certain circumstances, such as the loss or major damage to the drilling unit or other events that cause the suspension of drilling operations beyond a specified period of time. In certain cases we are able to obtain an early termination fee if the operator terminates a contract before the end of the term without cause. Rental tools contracts are typically on a dayrate basis with rates based on type of equipment, investment and competition. Insurance and Indemnification In our drilling contracts, we generally seek to obtain indemnification from our customers for some of the risks related to our drilling services. To the extent that we are unable to transfer such risks to customers by contract or indemnification agreements, we generally seek protection through insurance. To address the hazards inherent in our business, we maintain insurance coverage that includes physical damage coverage, third party general liability coverage, employer’s liability, environmental and pollution coverage and other coverage. We believe that our insurance coverage is customary for the industry and adequate for our business. However, there are risks that such insurance will not adequately protect us against or not be available to cover all the liability from all of the consequences and hazards we may encounter in our drilling operations. Employees The following table sets forth the composition of our employees: December 31, 2006 2005 International drilling (1) 1,574 2,113 U.S. drilling 631 564 Rental tools 217 175 Corporate and other 206 188 Total employees 2,628 3,040 (1) Declines relate primarily to sale of rigs in Nigeria and contract completions in Mexico, Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan. Environmental Considerations Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Numerous governmental agencies, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), issue regulations to implement and enforce such laws, which often require difficult and costly compliance measures that carry substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties or may result in injunctive relief for failure to comply. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the 5 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS (continued) Environmental Considerations (continued) types, quantities and concentrations of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities, limit or prohibit construction or drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, ecologically sensitive and other protected areas, require remedial action to prevent pollution from former operations, and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent and costly compliance could adversely affect our operations and financial position, as well as those of similarly situated entities operating in the Gulf Coast market. While our management believes that we are in substantial compliance with current applicable environmental laws and regulations, there is no assurance that compliance can be maintained in the future. The drilling of oil and gas wells is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations. As an owner or operator of both onshore and offshore facilities, including mobile offshore drilling rigs in or near waters of the United States, we may be liable for the costs of removal and damages arising out of a pollution incident to the extent set forth in the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended by the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA”), the Clean Water Act (“CWA”), the Clean Air Act (“CAA”), the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (“OCSLA”), the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”), and comparable state laws, each as may be amended from time to time. In addition, we may also be subject to applicable state law and other civil claims arising out of any such incident. The OPA and regulations promulgated pursuant thereto impose a variety of regulations on “responsible parties” related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages resulting from such spills. A “responsible party” includes the owner or operator of a vessel, pipeline or onshore facility, or the lessee or permittee of the area in which an offshore facility is located. The OPA assigns liability of oil removal costs and a variety of public and private damages to each responsible party. The OPA liability for a mobile offshore drilling rig is determined by whether the unit is functioning as a vessel or is in place and functioning as an offshore facility. If operating as a vessel, liability limits of $600 per gross ton or $0.5 million, whichever is greater, apply. If functioning as an offshore facility, the mobile offshore drilling rig is considered a “tank vessel” for spills of oil on or above the water surface, with liability limits of $1,200 per gross ton or $10.0 million, whichever is greater. To the extent damages and removal costs exceed this amount, the mobile offshore drilling rig will be treated as an offshore facility and the offshore lessee will be responsible up to higher liability limits for all removal costs plus $75.0 million. The party must reimburse all removal costs actually incurred by a governmental entity for actual or threatened oil discharges associated with any Outer Continental Shelf facilities, without regard to the limits described above. A party also cannot take advantage of liability limits if the spill was caused by gross negligence or willful misconduct or resulted from violation of a federal safety, construction or operating regulation. If the party fails to report a spill or to cooperate fully in the cleanup, liability limits likewise do not apply. Few defenses exist to the liability imposed by the OPA. The OPA also imposes ongoing requirements on a responsible party, including proof of financial responsibility for offshore facilities and vessels in excess of 300 gross tons (to cover at least some costs in a potential spill) and preparation of an oil spill contingency plan for offshore facilities and vessels. The OPA requires owners and operators of offshore facilities that have a worst case oil spill potential of more than 1,000 barrels to demonstrate financial responsibility in amounts ranging from $10.0 million in specified state waters to $35.0 million in federal Outer Continental Shelf waters, with higher amounts, up to $150.0 million, in certain limited circumstances where the U.S. Minerals Management Service believes such a level is justified by the risks posed by the quantity or quality of oil that is handled by the facility. For “tank vessels,” as our offshore drilling rigs are typically classified, the OPA requires owners and operators to demonstrate financial responsibility in the amount of their largest vessel’s liability limit, as those limits are described in the preceding paragraph. A failure to comply with ongoing requirements or inadequate cooperation in a spill may even subject a responsible party to civil or criminal enforcement actions. 6 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS (continued) Environmental Considerations (continued) In addition, the OCSLA authorizes regulations relating to safety and environmental protection applicable to lessees and permittees operating on the Outer Continental Shelf. Specific design and operational standards may apply to Outer Continental Shelf vessels, rigs, platforms, vehicles and structures. Violations of environmentally related lease conditions or regulations issued pursuant to the OCSLA can result in substantial civil and criminal penalties as well as potential court injunctions curtailing operations and the cancellation of leases. Such enforcement liabilities can result from either governmental or citizen prosecution. All of our operating U.S. barge drilling rigs have zero-discharge capabilities as required by law, e.g. CWA. In addition, in recognition of environmental concerns regarding dredging of inland waters and permitting requirements, we conduct negligible dredging operations, with approximately two-thirds of our offshore drilling contracts involving directional drilling, which minimizes the need for dredging. However, the existence of such laws and regulations (e.g., Section 404 of the CWA, Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act, etc.) has had and will continue to have a restrictive effect on us and our customers. Our operations are also governed by laws and regulations related to workplace safety and worker health, primarily the Occupational Safety and Health Act and regulations promulgated thereunder. In addition, various other governmental and quasi-governmental agencies require us to obtain certain miscellaneous permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. The kind of permits, licenses and certificates required in our operations depend upon a number of factors. We believe that we have all such miscellaneous permits, licenses and certificates that are material to the conduct of our existing business. CERCLA (also known as “Superfund”) and comparable state laws impose liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a “hazardous substance” into the environment. While CERCLA exempts crude oil from the definition of hazardous substances for purposes of the statute, our operations may involve the use or handling of other materials that may be classified as hazardous substances. CERCLA assigns strict liability to each responsible party for all response and remediation costs, as well as natural resource damages. Few defenses exist to the liability imposed by CERCLA. We have received an information request under CERCLA designating a subsidiary of Parker Drilling as a potentially responsible party with respect to the Gulfco Marine Maintenance, Inc. Superfund site in Freeport, Texas (EPA No. TXD055144539). We are continuing to evaluate our relationship to the site and have not yet estimated the amount or impact on our operations, financial position or cash flows of any costs related to the site. RCRA generally does not regulate most wastes generated by the exploration and production of oil and gas. RCRA specifically excludes from the definition of hazardous waste “drilling fluids, produced waters, and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of crude oil, natural gas or geothermal energy.” However, these wastes may be regulated by EPA or state agencies as solid waste. Moreover, ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents, laboratory wastes, and waste oils, may be regulated as hazardous waste. Although the costs of managing solid and hazardous wastes may be significant, we do not expect to experience more burdensome costs than similarly situated companies involved in drilling operations in the Gulf Coast market. The drilling industry is dependent on the demand for services from the oil and gas exploration and development industry, and accordingly, is affected by changes in laws relating to the energy business. Our business is affected generally by political developments and by federal, state, local and foreign regulations that may relate directly to the oil and gas industry. The adoption of laws and regulations, both U.S. and foreign, that curtail exploration and development drilling for oil and gas for economic, environmental and other policy reasons may adversely affect our operations by limiting available drilling opportunities. 7 Table of Contents ITEM 1. BUSINESS (continued) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC AREAS We operate in three segments, U.S. drilling, international drilling and rental tools. Information about our business segments and operations by geographic areas for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 is set forth in Note 11 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The contract drilling and rental tools businesses involve a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information included in this Form 10-K, including the financial statements and related notes, before deciding to invest in our securities. While these are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider, you should know that they are not the only risks or uncertainties facing us or which may adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Rig upgrade, refurbishment and construction projects are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. We often have to make upgrade and refurbishment expenditures for our rig fleet to comply with our quality management and preventive maintenance system or contractual requirements or when repairs are required in response to an inspection by a governmental authority. We may also make significant expenditures when we move rigs from one location to another. Additionally, we are making substantial expenditures for the construction of new rigs consistent with our strategy to construct a fleet of preferred rigs that will operate continuously despite market fluctuations. Rig upgrade, refurbishment and construction projects are subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project, including the following: • shortages of material or skilled labor; • unforeseen engineering problems; • unanticipated change orders; • work stoppages; • adverse weather conditions; • long lead times for manufactured rig components; • unanticipated cost increases; and • inability to obtain the required permits or approvals. Significant cost overruns or delays could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, capital expenditures for rig upgrade, refurbishment or construction projects could exceed our planned capital expenditures, impairing our ability to service our debt obligations. Risk Factors Related to Our Business Failure to retain skilled and experienced personnel could hurt our operations. We require highly skilled and experienced personnel to provide technical services and support for our drilling operations. Although we use our training center to train personnel and promote from within, as the demand for drilling services and the size of the worldwide rig fleet has recently increased, it has become more difficult to retain existing personnel and shortages of qualified personnel have arisen, which could create upward pressure on wages and prevent us from retaining or attracting qualified personnel in a cost-effective manner. 8 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued) Risk Factors Related to Our Business (continued) Our ability to service our debt obligations is primarily dependent upon our future financial performance. As of December 31, 2006, we had stockholders’ equity of $459.1 million compared to: • $329.4 million of long-term debt; • $11.0 million of operating lease commitments; and • $23.1 million of standby letters of credit. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations depends on our ability to generate positive cash flows from operations. Cash flows from operating activities were $166.9 million in 2006, $122.6 million in 2005 and $28.8 million in 2004. However, we have in the past, and may in the future, incur negative cash flows from one or more segments of our operating activities. Our future cash flows from operating activities will be influenced by the demand for our drilling services, the utilization of our rigs, the dayrates that we receive for our rigs, general economic conditions and by financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control, and some of which are specified below. If we are unable to service our debt obligations, we may have to: • delay spending on capital projects, including the acquisition or construction of additional rigs, rental tools and other assets; • sell equity securities; • sell assets; or • restructure or refinance our debt. Our debt, and the covenants contained in the instruments governing our debt could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: • result in a reduction of our credit rating, which would make it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operating activities to the repayment of our debt and the interest associated with our debt; • limit our operating flexibility due to financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on incurring additional debt and creating liens on our properties; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have relatively less debt; • expose us to interest rate risk because certain of our borrowings, including our Senior Floating Rate Notes, are at variable rates of interest; and • make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business. We cannot give you any assurances that, if we are unable to service our debt obligations, we will be able to sell equity securities, sell additional assets or restructure or refinance our debt. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness is subject to certain market conditions and other factors which are beyond our control. Our current operations and future growth may require significant additional capital, and our indebtedness could impair our ability to fund our capital requirements. Our business requires substantial capital (we anticipate that our capital expenditures in 2007 will be approximately $200.0 million, including approximately $32.9 million for maintenance projects). We may 9 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued) Risk Factors Related to Our Business (continued) require additional capital in the event of significant departures from our current business plan or unanticipated expenses. Sources of funding for our future capital requirements may include any or all of the following: • funds generated from our operations; • public offerings or private placements of equity and debt securities; • commercial bank loans; • capital leases; and • sales of assets. Due to our leveraged capital structure, additional financing may not be available on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us and within the limitations contained in the indentures governing the 9.625% Senior Notes and our Senior Floating Rate Notes and the documentation governing our senior secured credit facility. Failure to obtain appropriate financing, should the need for it develop, could impair our ability to fund our capital expenditure requirements and meet our debt service requirements and could have an adverse effect on our business. Volatile oil and natural gas prices impact demand for our drilling and related services. The success of our drilling operations is materially dependent upon the exploration and development activities of the major, independent and national oil and gas companies that comprise our customer base. Oil and natural gas prices and market expectations can be extremely volatile, and therefore, the level of exploration and production activities can be extremely volatile. Increases or decreases in oil and natural gas prices and expectations of future prices could have an impact on our customers’ long-term exploration and development activities, which in turn could materially affect our business and financial performance. Generally, changes in the price of oil have a greater impact on our international operations while changes in the price of natural gas have a greater impact on our operations in the Gulf of Mexico. Demand for our drilling and related services also depends upon other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • the cost of producing and delivering oil and natural gas; • advances in exploration, development and production technology; • laws and government regulations, both in the United States and other countries; • the imposition or lifting of economic sanctions against foreign countries; • new rig construction projects begun in the last eighteen months; • local and worldwide military, political and economic events, including events in the oil producing countries in the Middle East, Southeast Asia, Latin America and Commonwealth of Independent States (“CIS”); • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries “OPEC” to set and maintain production levels; • the level of production by non-OPEC countries; • weather conditions; • expansion or contraction of economic activity, which affects levels of consumer demand; • the rate of discovery of new oil and gas reserves; 10 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued) Risk Factors Related to Our Business (continued) • the availability of pipeline capacity; and • the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves. Most of our contracts are subject to cancellation by our customers without penalty with little or no notice. Most of our contracts are subject to cancellation by our customers without penalty with relatively little or no notice. Although drilling conditions are currently favorable, in the event the market becomes depressed, customers may seek renegotiation of contract terms or to exercise their termination rights. Our customers may also seek to terminate drilling contracts if we experience operational problems. If our equipment fails to function properly and cannot be repaired promptly, we will not be able to engage in drilling operations, and customers may have the right to terminate the drilling contracts. The cancellation or renegotiation of a number of our drilling contracts could adversely affect our financial performance. We rely on a small number of customers, and the loss of a significant customer could adversely affect us. A substantial percentage of our revenues are generated from a relatively small number of customers, and the loss of a major customer would adversely affect us. In 2006, ExxonMobil accounted for approximately 14 percent of our total revenues, and Chevron, for approximately 8 percent of our total revenues. Our ten most significant customers collectively accounted for approximately 52 percent of our total revenues in 2006. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if any of our major customers terminate their contracts with us, fail to renew our existing contracts or refuse to award new contracts to us. Contract drilling and the rental tools business are highly competitive. The contract drilling and rental tools markets are highly competitive, and no single competitor is dominant. Although the drilling market is currently experiencing a strong upward trend, during periods of decreased demand we historically experience significant reductions in utilization. We anticipate that current demand for oil and gas will result in strong demand for our rental tools for the foreseeable future. However, if commodity prices decline or other factors adversely affect demand for drilling activity, our utilization rates and financial performance will be adversely affected. Contract drilling companies compete primarily on a regional basis, and competition may vary significantly from region to region at any particular time. Many drilling and workover rigs can be moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity, provided market conditions warrant, which may result in an oversupply of rigs in an area. Many competitors have begun new rig construction programs in response to recent energy price levels. In many markets in which we operate, the number of rigs available has historically exceeded the demand for rigs for extended periods of time, resulting in intense price competition. Most drilling and workover contracts are awarded on the basis of competitive bids, which also results in price competition. Despite high commodity prices at present, we believe that competition for drilling contracts will continue to be intense for the foreseeable future. If we cannot keep our rigs utilized, our financial performance will be adversely impacted. The rental tools market is also characterized by vigorous competition among existing and emerging competitors. Many of our competitors in both the contract drilling and rental tools business possess significantly greater financial resources than we do. The improved industry conditions due to increased demand for oil and natural gas and drilling services has spurred a significant increase in the construction of drilling rigs. As the supply of rigs increases over the next few years, there is a significant risk that this could result in a reduction of utilization and dayrates, which would adversely affect our business and financial performance. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued) Risk Factors Related to Our Business (continued) Our international operations could be adversely affected by terrorism, war, civil disturbances, political instability and similar events. We have operations in 13 foreign countries. Our international operations are subject to interruption, suspension and possible expropriation due to terrorism, war, civil disturbances, political instability and similar events and we have previously suffered loss of revenue and damage to equipment due to political violence. We may not be able to obtain insurance policies covering such risks, especially political violence coverage, or such policies may only be available with premiums that are not commercially justifiable. Our international operations are also subject to governmental regulation and other risks. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from our international operations. In 2006, we derived approximately 47 percent of our revenues from operations in countries outside the United States. Our international operations are subject to the following risks, among others: • foreign laws and governmental regulation; • expropriation, confiscatory taxation and nationalization of our assets located in areas in which we operate; • hiring and retaining skilled and experienced workers, many of which are represented by foreign labor unions; • unfavorable changes in foreign monetary and tax policies and unfavorable and inconsistent interpretation and application of foreign tax laws; and • foreign currency fluctuations and restrictions on currency repatriation. Our international operations are subject to the laws and regulations of a number of foreign countries. Additionally, our ability to compete in international contract drilling markets may be adversely affected by foreign governmental regulations or other policies that favor the awarding of contracts to contractors in which nationals of those foreign countries have substantial ownership interests. Furthermore, our foreign subsidiaries may face governmentally imposed restrictions or fees from time to time on the transfer of funds to us. While we have been successful in most cases in contractually limiting these risks by transferring the risk of loss to the operators, we cannot completely eliminate such risk. A significant portion of the workers we employ in our international operations are members of labor unions or otherwise subject to collective bargaining. We may not be able to hire and retain a sufficient number of skilled and experienced workers for wages and other benefits that we believe are commercially reasonable. We have historically been successful in limiting the risks of currency fluctuation and restrictions on currency repatriation by obtaining contracts providing for payment in U.S. dollars or freely convertible foreign currencies. However, some countries in which we may operate could require that all or a portion of our revenues be paid in local currencies that are not freely convertible. In addition, some parties with which we do business may require that all or a portion of our revenues be paid in local currencies. To the extent possible, we limit our exposure to potentially devaluating currencies by matching the acceptance of local currencies to our expense requirements in those currencies. Although we have done this in the past, we may not be able to obtain such contractual terms in the future, thereby exposing us to foreign currency fluctuations that could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations and financial condition. Our international operations are also subject to disruption due to risks associated with worldwide health concerns. In particular, although we have no evidence to believe this will occur, it is possible that concerns due to the transmission of avian flu could result in cancellations or delays in international flights and/or the quarantine of drilling crews in foreign locations, which could materially impair our international operations 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued) Risk Factors Related to Our Business (continued) and consequently have an adverse effect on our business and financial results for the operations that are affected. Compliance with foreign tax and other laws may adversely affect our operations. Tax and other laws and regulations are not always interpreted consistently among local, regional and national authorities. For example, we currently have a case pending in the Supreme Court involving an assessment of US$61.9 million in income taxes based on $99 million of reimbursements received to upgrade Rig 257 prior to its importation into Kazakhstan. The Supreme Court of Kazakhstan has on two previous occasions ruled that this reimbursement is not income to Parker and thus not subject to tax in Kazakhstan, but the Ministry of Finance (“MinFin”) of Kazakhstan continues to re-assess taxes on the same amount. The latest assessment of MinFin was in October 2005, which was appealed to the Supreme Court. Contrary to its two earlier rulings, in May 2006 the Supreme Court ruled in favor of MinFin. Parker received an immediate stay of execution of this ruling pending a determination of the Supreme Court whether or not to grant supervisory review of this ruling. The Supreme Court has delayed any action on supervisory review pending a meeting of the Competent Authorities of MinFin and the U.S. Treasury, which is a tax treaty procedure to resolve disputes as to which country may tax income covered under the treaty. The Competent Authorities are currently scheduled to meet on March 20, 2007. The Supreme Court is scheduled to meet on March 31, 2007. See Note 12 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements. The ultimate outcome of these disputes is not certain, and it is possible that the outcome could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. It is also possible that in the future we will be subject to similar disputes concerning taxation and other matters in Kazakhstan and other countries in which we do business, and these disputes could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. We are subject to hazards customary for drilling operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance if we are not adequately indemnified or insured. Substantially all of our operations are subject to hazards that are customary for oil and gas drilling operations, including blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of well control, cratering, oil and gas well fires and explosions, natural disasters, pollution and mechanical failure. Our offshore operations also are subject to hazards inherent in marine operations, such as capsizing, grounding, collision and damage from severe weather conditions. Our international operations are also subject to risks of terrorism, war, civil disturbances and other political events. Any of these risks could result in damage to or destruction of drilling equipment, personal injury and property damage, suspension of operations or environmental damage. We have had accidents in the past demonstrating some of these hazards. For example, in June 2005, a well control incident resulted in a fire and damage to a rig in Bangladesh, resulting in a total loss of the drilling unit. In July 2005, we suffered damage to a deep drilling barge rig which ran aground and overturned and in November 2005 we sustained a well control incident in Turkmenistan. Generally, drilling contracts provide for the division of responsibilities between a drilling company and its customer, and we generally obtain indemnification from our customers by contract for some of these risks. However, the laws of certain countries place significant limitations on the enforceability of indemnification provisions that allow a contractor to be indemnified for damages resulting from the drilling contractor’s fault. To the extent that we are unable to transfer such risks to customers by contract or indemnification agreements, we generally seek protection through insurance. However, we have a significant amount of self-insured retention or deductible for certain losses relating to workers’ compensation, employers’ liability, general liability (for onshore liability), protection and indemnity (for offshore liability), and property damage. For further information, see Note 12 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. There is no assurance that such insurance or indemnification agreements will adequately protect us against liability from all of the consequences of the hazards and risks described above. The occurrence of an event not fully insured or for which we are not indemnified against, or the failure of a customer or insurer to meet its indemnification or insurance obligations, could result in substantial losses. In addition, there can be no assurance that insurance will continue to be available to cover any or all of these risks, or, even if available, 13 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued) Risk Factors Related to Our Business (continued) that insurance premiums or other costs will not rise significantly in the future, so as to make the cost of such insurance prohibitive. Government regulations and environmental risks, which reduce our business opportunities and increase our operating costs, might worsen in the future. Government regulations control and often limit access to potential markets and impose extensive requirements concerning employee safety, environmental protection, pollution control and remediation of environmental contamination. Environmental regulations, in particular, prohibit access to some markets and make others less economical, increase equipment and personnel costs and often impose liability without regard to negligence or fault. In addition, governmental regulations may discourage our customers’ activities, reducing demand for our products and services. We may be liable for damages resulting from pollution of offshore waters and, under United States regulations, must establish financial responsibility in order to drill offshore. We are regularly involved in litigation, some of which may be material. We are regularly involved in litigation, claims and disputes incidental to our business, which at times involve claims for significant monetary amounts, some of which would not be covered by insurance. We undertake all reasonable steps to defend ourselves in such lawsuits. However, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of such lawsuits, in which case the Company could suffer material adverse consequences. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Market prices of our common stock could change significantly. The market prices of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events, including the following: • the other risk factors described in this Form 10-K, including changes in oil and gas prices; • a shortfall in rig utilization, operating revenue or net income from that expected by securities analysts and investors; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of the financial performance of us or our competitors or the financial performance of companies in the oilfield service industry generally; • changes in actual or market expectations with respect to the amounts of exploration and development spending by oil and gas companies; • general conditions in the economy and in the oil and gas or oilfield service industries; • general conditions in the securities markets; • political instability, terrorism or war; and • the outcome of pending and future legal proceedings, tax assessments and other claims, including the outcome of our dispute with the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan. See Note 12 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Most of these factors are beyond our control. A hostile takeover of our Company would be difficult. We have adopted a stockholders’ rights plan. Some of the provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and of the Delaware General Corporation Law may make it difficult for a hostile suitor to acquire control of our Company and to replace our incumbent management. For example, our Restated 14 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued) Risks Related to Our Common Stock (continued) Certificate of Incorporation provides for a staggered Board of Directors and permits the Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to issue additional shares of common stock or a new series of preferred stock. Risks Related to our Debt Securities Payment of principal and interest on our notes will be effectively subordinated to our senior secured debt to the extent of the value of the assets securing that debt. Our 9.625% Senior Notes and our Senior Floating Rate Notes and the guarantees related to those notes are senior unsecured obligations of Parker Drilling and certain of our subsidiaries that rank senior in right of payment to all current and future subordinated debt. Holders of our secured obligations, including obligations under our senior secured credit facility, will have claims that are prior to claims of the holders of our notes with respect to the assets securing those obligations. In the event of a liquidation, dissolution, reorganization, bankruptcy or any similar proceeding, our assets and those of our subsidiaries would be available to pay obligations on the notes and the guarantees only after holders of our senior secured debt have been paid the value of the assets securing such debt. Accordingly, there may not be sufficient funds remaining to pay amounts due on all or any of the notes. We have granted the lenders under our senior secured credit facility a security interest in (i) all accounts receivable, and certain deposit accounts, of (a) Parker Drilling Company and (b) substantially all of our material direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries; and (ii) substantially all of the rental tool assets of our rental tools business. In the event of a default on secured indebtedness, the parties granted security interests will have a prior secured claim on such assets. If the parties should attempt to foreclose on their collateral, our financial condition and the value of the notes would be adversely affected. We are a holding company and conduct substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries, which may affect our ability to make payments on our notes. We conduct substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries. As a result, our cash flows and our ability to service our debt, including our notes, is dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries. In addition, we are dependent on the distribution of earnings, loans or other payments from our subsidiaries to us. Any payment of dividends, distributions, loans or other payments from our subsidiaries to us could be subject to statutory restrictions. In addition, payment of dividends or distributions from our joint ventures are subject to contractual restrictions. Payments to us by our subsidiaries also will be contingent upon the profitability of our subsidiaries. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries we may not be able to pay interest or principal on the notes when due, or to redeem our notes upon a change of control, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the necessary funds from other sources. Our notes are guaranteed by certain of our direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2006, our non-guarantor subsidiaries and joint ventures collectively owned approximately 11.6 percent of our consolidated total assets and held approximately $17.8 million of our consolidated cash and cash equivalents of approximately $92.2 million. See Note 5 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements. The subsidiary guarantees of our notes could be deemed fraudulent conveyances under certain circumstances, and a court may try to subordinate or void the subsidiary guarantees. Under the federal bankruptcy laws and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer laws, a guarantee could be voided, or claims in respect of a guarantee could be subordinated to all other debts of that guarantor if, among other things, the guarantor, at the time it incurred the indebtedness evidenced by its guarantee: • received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the incurrence of such guarantee; or 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued) • was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of such incurrence; or • was engaged in a business or transaction for which the guarantor’s remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or • intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature. In addition, any payment by that guarantor pursuant to its guarantee could be voided and required to be returned to the guarantor, or to a fund for the benefit of the creditors of the guarantor. The measures of insolvency for purposes of these fraudulent transfer laws will vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer has occurred. Generally, however, a guarantor would be considered insolvent if: • the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair saleable value of all of its assets; • the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability, including contingent liabilities, on its existing debts, as they become absolute and mature; or • it could not pay its debts as they become due. We may not be able to repurchase our notes upon a change of control. Upon the occurrence of specific change of control events affecting us, the holders of our notes will have the right to require us to repurchase our notes at 101 percent of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Our ability to repurchase our notes upon such a change of control event would be limited by our access to funds at the time of the repurchase and the terms of our other debt agreements. Upon a change of control event, we may be required immediately to repay the outstanding principal, any accrued interest on and any other amounts owed by us under our senior secured credit facilities, our notes and other outstanding indebtedness. The source of funds for these repayments would be our available cash or cash generated from other sources. However, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient funds available upon a change of control to make any required repurchases of this outstanding indebtedness. In addition, the change of control provisions in the indentures governing our notes may not protect the holders of our notes from certain important corporate events, such as a leveraged recapitalization (which would increase the level of our indebtedness), reorganization, restructuring, merger or other similar transaction, unless such transaction constitutes a “Change of Control” under the indenture. Such a transaction may not involve a change in voting power or beneficial ownership or, even if it does, may not involve a change that constitutes a “Change of Control” as defined in the indenture that would trigger our obligation to repurchase the notes. Therefore, if an event occurs that does not constitute a “Change of Control” as defined in the indenture, we will not be required to make an offer to repurchase the notes and the holders may be required to continue to hold their notes despite the event. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued) DISCLOSURE NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Form 10-K contains statements that are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. All statements contained in this Form 10-K, other than statements of historical facts, are “forward-looking statements” for purposes of these provisions, including any statements regarding: • stability of prices and demand for oil and natural gas; • levels of oil and natural gas exploration and production activities; • demand for contract drilling and drilling related services and demand for rental tools; • our future operating results and profitability; • our future rig utilization, dayrates and rental tools activity; • entering into new, or extending existing, drilling contracts and our expectations concerning when our rigs will commence operations under such contracts; • growth through acquisitions of companies or assets; • construction or upgrades of rigs; • entering into joint venture agreements with local companies; • our future capital expenditures and investments in the acquisition and refurbishment of rigs and equipment; • our future liquidity; • availability and sources of funds to reduce our debt and expectations of when debt will be reduced; • the outcome of pending and future legal proceedings, tax assessments and other claims; • the availability of insurance coverage for pending future claims; • the enforceability of contractual indemnification in relation to pending or future claims; • compliance with covenants under our senior credit facility and indentures for our senior notes; and • organic growth of our operations. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “outlook,” “may,” “should,” “will” and “would” or similar words. Forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions and analyses made by our management in light of their experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe are relevant. Although our management believes that their assumptions are reasonable based on information currently available, those assumptions are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. The following factors, as well as any other cautionary language included in this Form 10-K, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our “forward-looking statements.” • worldwide economic and business conditions that adversely affect market conditions and/or the cost of doing business; • the U.S. economy and the demand for natural gas; • fluctuations in the market prices of oil and gas; • imposition of unanticipated trade restrictions; 17 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued) DISCLOSURE NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS (continued) • unanticipated operating hazards and uninsured risks; • political instability, terrorism or war; • governmental regulations, including changes in tax laws or ability to remit funds to the U.S., that adversely affect the cost of doing business; • adverse environmental events; • adverse weather conditions; • changes in the concentration of customer and supplier relationships; • unexpected cost increases for upgrade and refurbishment projects; • delays in obtaining components for capital projects; • shortages of skilled labor; • unanticipated cancellation of contracts by operators without cause; • breakdown of equipment and other operational problems; • changes in competition; and • other similar factors (some of which are discussed in documents referred to in this Form 10-K). Each “forward-looking statement” speaks only as of the date of this Form 10-K, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Before you decide to invest in our securities, you should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-K could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 