ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued) DISCLOSURE NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS (continued) In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “outlook,” “may,” “should,” “will” and “would” or similar words. Forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions and analyses made by our management in light of their experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors they believe are relevant. Although our management believes that their assumptions are reasonable based on information currently available, those assumptions are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. The following factors, as well as any other cautionary language included in this Form 10-K, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our “forward-looking statements.” • worldwide economic and business conditions that adversely affect market conditions and/or the cost of doing business; • the U.S. economy and the demand for natural gas; • fluctuations in the market prices of oil and natural gas; • imposition of unanticipated trade restrictions; • unanticipated operating hazards and uninsured risks; • political instability, terrorism or war; • governmental regulations, including changes in tax laws or ability to remit funds to the U.S., that adversely affect the cost of doing business; • adverse environmental events; • adverse weather conditions; • changes in the concentration of customer and supplier relationships; • unexpected cost increases for upgrade and refurbishment projects; • delays in obtaining components for capital projects; • shortages of skilled labor; • unanticipated cancellation of contracts by operators without cause; • breakdown of equipment and other operational problems; • changes in competition; and • other similar factors (some of which are discussed in documents referred to in this Form 10-K). Each “forward-looking statement” speaks only as of the date of this Form 10-K, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Before you decide to invest in our securities, you should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-K could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 Table of Contents 