ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Corporation’s business is subject to many risks and uncertainties. Although the Corporation seeks ways to manage these risks and develop programs to control those that management can, the Corporation ultimately cannot predict the extent to which these risks and uncertainties could affect results. Actual results may differ materially from management's expectations. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Corporation are discussed below. Economic conditions may adversely affect the Corporation’s financial performance. As a consequence of the economic slowdown that the United States experienced, business activity across a wide range of industries continues to face serious difficulties due to reduced consumer spending, the weakened financial condition of some borrowers and employment levels. A continued weakness or further weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which the Corporation does business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on the Corporation’s business: (i) a decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services; (ii) a decrease in the value of the Corporation’s loans or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; (iii) an impairment of certain of the Corporation’s intangible assets, such as goodwill; and (iv) an increase in the number of borrowers and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to the Corporation. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provision for loan losses. Commercial real estate and business loans increase the Corporation’s exposure to credit risks. At December 31, 2010, the Corporation’s portfolio of commercial real estate and business loans totaled $247.8 million or 40.4% of total loans. The Corporation’s plans are to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans, which generally expose the Corporation to a greater risk of nonpayment and loss than residential real estate or consumer loans because repayment of such loans often depends on the successful operations and income stream of the borrower’s business. Additionally, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate and consumer loans. Also, some of the Corporation’s borrowers have more than one commercial loan outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Corporation to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to residential real estate and consumer loans. The Corporation targets its business lending and marketing strategy towards small to medium-sized businesses. These small to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses, the Corporation’s results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Increases to the allowance for loan losses may cause the Corporation’s earnings to decrease. The Corporation’s customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. Hence, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of its borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, management relies on loan quality reviews, past loss experience, and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in the Corporation’s loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease net income. The Corporation’s emphasis on the origination of commercial loans is one of the more significant factors in evaluating its allowance for credit losses. As the Corporation continues to increase the amount of these loans, additional or increased provisions for loan losses may be necessary and as a result could result in a decrease in earnings. 12 Bank regulators periodically review the Corporation’s allowance for loan losses and may require the Corporation to increase its provision for loan losses or loan charge-offs. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and/or financial condition. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Corporation’s results of operations and financial condition. The Corporation’s results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Our financial results depend substantially on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities. If the Corporation’s interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than its interest-bearing liabilities in a given period as a result of decreasing interest rates, net interest income may decrease. Likewise, net interest income may decrease if interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets in a given period as a result of increasing interest rates. The Corporation has taken steps to mitigate this risk, such as holding fewer longer-term residential mortgages, as well as investing excess funds in shorter-term investments. Changes in interest rates also affect the fair value of the Corporation’s interest-earning assets and, in particular, its investment securities available for sale. Generally, the fair value of investment securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Decreases in the fair value of investment securities available for sale, therefore, could have an adverse effect on our shareholders’ equity or earnings if the decrease in fair value is deemed to be other than temporary. Changes in interest rates may also affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, the Corporation is subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that it is unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on its existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Strong competition within our industry and market area could limit the Corporation’s growth and profitability. The Corporation faces substantial competition in all phases of its operations from a variety of different competitors. Future growth and success will depend on the ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. The Corporation competes for deposits, loans and other financial services with a variety of banks, thrifts, credit unions and other financial institutions as well as other entities which provide financial services. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as the Corporation. Many competitors have been in business for many years, have established customer bases, are larger, and have substantially higher lending limits. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties. The Corporation’s growth strategy may not prove to be successful and our market value and profitability may suffer. As part of the Corporation's strategy for continued growth, we may open additional branches. New branches do not initially contribute to operating profits due to the impact of overhead expenses and the start-up phase of generating loans and deposits. To the extent that additional branches are opened, the Corporation may experience the effects of higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations, which may have an adverse effect on the Corporation's levels of net income, return on average equity and return on average assets. In addition, the Corporation may acquire banks and related businesses that it believes provide a strategic fit with its business, such as the pending acquisition of Fort Orange Financial Corp. To the extent that the Corporation grows through acquisitions, it cannot provide assurance that such strategic decisions will be accretive to earnings. 13 The Corporation operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Currently, the Corporation and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by regulatory authorities. For example, the Corporation is regulated by the Federal Reserve and the Bank is regulated by the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC") and the New York State Banking Department. Such regulators govern the activities in which the Corporation and its subsidiaries may engage. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank, and the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on the Corporation and its operations. The Corporation believes that it is in substantial compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and applicable regulations are subject to regular modification and change. There can be no assurance that proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other law, rule or regulation, will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. Recent legislative reforms may result in the Corporation’s business becoming subject to significant and extensive additional regulations and/or can adversely affect the Corporation’s results of operations and financial condition. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"). This new law will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations, and to prepare various studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting such rules and regulations. With that discretion, market litigation, and continued legislative efforts, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for months or years. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term impact on the Corporation. Among other things, these provisions: (i) abolish the Office of Thrift Supervision and transfer its functions to other federal banking agencies; (ii) relax rules regarding interstate branching; (iii) allow financial institutions to pay interest on business checking accounts; (iv) change the scope of federal deposit insurance coverage; and (v) impose new capital requirements on bank holding companies. It is difficult to predict at this time with specificity the full range of the impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on the Corporation. The Dodd-Frank Act substantially increases regulation of the financial services industry and imposes restrictions on the operations and general ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices. The Corporation will have to apply resources to ensure that it is in compliance with all applicable provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and any implementing rules, which may increase its costs of operations and adversely impact its earnings. The Corporation is a holding company and depends on its subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. The Corporation is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank and other subsidiaries. Its principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to its shareholders, is dividends from the Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by the Bank to the Corporation, as well as by the Corporation to its shareholders. Federal Reserve regulations affect the ability of the Bank to pay dividends and other distributions and to make loans to the Corporation. If the Bank is unable to make dividend payments to the Corporation and sufficient capital is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common shareholders. 14 The Corporation holds certain intangible assets that could be classified as impaired in the future. If these assets are considered to be either partially or fully impaired in the future, our earnings and the book values of these assets would decrease. The Corporation is required to test its goodwill and core deposit intangible assets for impairment on a periodic basis. The impairment testing process considers a variety of factors, including the current market price of its common stock, the estimated net present value of its assets and liabilities, and information concerning the terminal valuation of similarly situated insured depository institutions. If an impairment determination is made in a future reporting period, our earnings and the book value of these intangible assets would be reduced by the amount of the impairment. If an impairment loss is recorded, it will have little or no impact on the tangible book value of our common shares or our regulatory capital levels, but such an impairment loss could significantly restrict the Bank from paying a dividend to the Corporation. The Corporation continually encounters technological change and the failure to understand and adapt to these changes could adversely effect our business. The banking industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The Corporation's future success will depend, in part, on the ability to address the needs of customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in operations. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. There can be no assurance that the Corporation will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing such products and services to customers. The Corporation is subject to security and operational risks relating to its use of technology. Despite instituted safeguards, the Corporation cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. The Corporation relies on the services of a variety of vendors to meet its data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and the Corporation could be exposed to claims from customers. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Risk factors related to the Corporation’s pending acquisition of Fort Orange Financial Corporation, ("FOFC"), the parent company of Capital Bank & Trust Company ("Capital Bank"). The Corporation may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. The success of the merger will depend on, among other things, the Corporation’s ability to realize anticipated cost savings and to combine the businesses of the Bank and Capital Bank in a manner that permits growth opportunities and does not materially disrupt the existing customer relationships of Capital Bank or result in decreased revenues due to loss of customers. If the Corporation is not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. The Merger Agreement may be terminated in accordance with its terms and the merger may not be completed. While required regulatory approvals have been received, the Merger Agreement remains subject to a number of conditions which must be fulfilled in order to complete the merger. Those conditions include: (i) approval of the Merger Agreement by FOFC shareholders; (ii) approval of the Merger by the Corporation’s shareholders; (iii) absence of court orders prohibiting the completion of the Merger; (iv) the continued accuracy of the representations and warranties by both parties; (v) the performance by both parties of their covenants and agreements; and (vi) the receipt by both parties of legal opinions from their respective tax counsels. In addition, certain circumstances exist whereby the Corporation or FOFC may choose to terminate the Merger Agreement. There can be no assurance that the conditions to closing of the merger will be fulfilled or that the merger will be completed. 15 A lawsuit challenging the merger has been filed against FOFC, the FOFC board of directors and the Corporation, and an adverse judgment in this lawsuit or any future similar lawsuits may prevent the merger from becoming effective or from becoming effective within the expected timeframe. FOFC, the FOFC board of directors and the Corporation have been named as defendants in a purported class action lawsuit in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of Albany, challenging the proposed merger and seeking, among other things, to enjoin the defendants from completing the merger on the agreed-upon terms and rescission of the merger to the extent it has been completed. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” hereof. One of the conditions to the closing of the merger is that no order, injunction or decree that enjoins or prohibits the completion of the merger be in effect. If any plaintiff were successful in obtaining an injunction prohibiting the FOFC or the Corporation defendants from completing the merger on the agreed upon terms, then such injunction may prevent the merger from becoming effective or from becoming effective within the expected timeframe. The pending acquisition of FOFC may distract our management from their other responsibilities. The pending acquisition of FOFC could cause our management to focus their time and energies on matters related to the acquisition that otherwise would be directed to our business and operations. Management has considered this possibility and is confident that it has the resources necessary to manage this process effectively. Nonetheless, any such distraction on the part of management, if significant, could affect management's ability to service existing business and develop new business and otherwise adversely affect us following the acquisition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 