ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or future results. Any one of these factors could cause the Company’s actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. The markets in which we operate are subject to competitive pressures that could affect selling prices, and therefore could adversely affect our operating results. Our businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive, and we compete on the basis of price, quality, service and/or brand name across the industries and markets served. Some of our competitors for certain products, primarily in the Lighting Segment, have greater sales, assets and financial resources than we have. Some of our competitors are based in foreign countries and have cost structures and prices in foreign currencies. Accordingly, currency fluctuations could cause our U.S. dollar-priced products to be less competitive than our competitors’ products which are priced in other currencies. Competitive pressures could affect prices we charge our customers or demand for our products, which could adversely affect our operating results. Additionally, customers for our products are attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to reduce the size and diversity of their inventories and their transaction costs. To remain competitive, we will need to invest continuously in manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support, and our distribution networks. We may not have sufficient resources to continue to make such investments and we may be unable to maintain our competitive position. Lower levels of economic activity in our end markets could adversely affect our operating results. Our businesses operate in several market segments including commercial, industrial, retail, petroleum / convenience store and entertainment. Operating results can be negatively impacted by volatility in these markets. Future downturns in any of the markets we serve could adversely affect our overall sales and profitability. - 8 - Table of Contents Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. Economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in our industry at large, as well as to the specific segments and markets in which we operate. When combined with ongoing customer consolidation activity and periodic manufacturing and inventory initiatives, the current uncertain macro-economic climate, including but not limited to the effects of weakness in credit markets, could lead to reduced demand from our customers and increased price competition for our products, increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories and higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue. If the markets in which we participate experience further economic downturns, as well as a slow recovery period, this could negatively impact our sales and revenue generation, margins and operating expenses, and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Price increases or significant shortages of raw materials and components could adversely affect our operating margin. The Company purchases large quantities of raw materials and components — mainly steel, aluminum, ballasts, sockets, wire, plastic, lenses, glass, vinyls, inks, LEDs, and corrugated cartons. Materials comprise the largest component of costs, representing nearly 62% and 60% of the cost of sales in 2009 and 2008, respectively. While we have multiple sources of supply for each of our major requirements, significant shortages could disrupt the supply of raw materials. Further increases in the price of these raw materials and components could further increase the Company’s operating costs and materially adversely affect margins. Although the Company attempts to pass along increased costs in the form of price increases to customers, the Company may be unsuccessful in doing so for competitive reasons. Even when price increases are successful, the timing of such price increases may lag significantly behind the incurrence of higher costs. We have a concentration of net sales to the petroleum / convenience store market, and any substantial change could have an adverse affect on our business. Approximately 23% of our net sales in fiscal year 2009 are concentrated in the petroleum / convenience store market. Sales to this market segment are dependent upon the general conditions prevailing in and the profitability of the petroleum and convenience store industries and general market conditions. Our petroleum market business is subject to reactions by the petroleum industry to world political events, particularly those in the Middle East, and to the price and supply of oil. Major disruptions in the petroleum industry generally result in a curtailment of retail marketing efforts, including expansion and refurbishing of retail outlets, by the petroleum industry and adversely affect our business. Any substantial change in purchasing decisions by one or more of our largest customers, whether due to actions by our competitors, customer financial constraints, industry factors or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our business. Difficulties with integrating acquisitions could adversely affect operating costs and expected benefits from those acquisitions. We have pursued and will continue to seek potential acquisitions to complement and expand our existing businesses, increase our revenues and profitability, and expand our markets through acquisitions. We cannot be certain that we will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional companies or successfully integrate such additional companies without substantial costs, delays or other problems. Also, companies acquired recently and in the future may not achieve revenues, profitability or cash flows that justify our investment in them. We expect to spend significant time and effort in expanding our existing businesses and identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions. We expect to face competition for acquisition candidates which may limit the number of acquisition opportunities available to us, possibly leading to a decrease in the rate of growth of our revenues and profitability, and may result in higher acquisition prices. The success of these acquisitions we do make will depend on our ability to integrate these businesses into our operations. We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions into our operations and in managing strategic investments. Therefore, we may not realize the degree or timing of the benefits anticipated when we first enter into a transaction. - 9 - Table of Contents If acquisitions are made in the future and goodwill and intangible assets are recorded on the balance sheet, circumstances could arise in which the goodwill and intangible assets could become impaired and therefore would be written off. We have pursued and will continue to seek potential acquisitions to complement and expand our existing businesses, increase our revenues and profitability, and expand our markets through acquisitions. As a result of acquisitions, we have significant goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. We will continue to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying amount of our goodwill and intangible assets on an ongoing basis, and we may incur substantial non-cash impairment charges, which would adversely affect our financial results. There can be no assurance that the outcome of such reviews in the future will not result in substantial impairment charges. Impairment assessment inherently involves judgment as to assumptions about expected future cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. Future events and changing market conditions may impact our assumptions as to prices, costs, holding periods or other factors that may result in changes in our estimates of future cash flows. Although we believe the assumptions we used in testing for impairment are reasonable, significant changes in any one of our assumptions could produce a significantly different result. If there were to be a decline in our market capitalization and a decline in estimated forecasted discounted cash flows, there could be an impairment of the goodwill and intangible assets. A non-cash impairment charge could be material to the net income of the reporting period in which it is recorded. If customers do not accept new products, we could experience a loss of competitive position which could adversely affect future revenues. The Company is committed to product innovation on a timely basis to meet customer demands. Development of new products for targeted markets requires the Company to develop or otherwise leverage leading technologies in a cost-effective and timely manner. Failure to meet these changing demands could result in a loss of competitive position and seriously impact future revenues. Products or technologies developed by others may render the Company’s products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. A fundamental shift in technologies in key product markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results and competitive position within the industry. More specifically, the development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring the anticipation of technological and market trends. We may experience design, manufacturing, marketing or other difficulties, such as an inability to attract a sufficient number of experienced engineers, that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new products or enhancements and result in unexpected expenses. Such difficulties could cause us to lose business from our customers and could adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, added expenses could decrease the profitability associated with those products that do not gain market acceptance. Our business is cyclical and seasonal, and in downward economic cycles our operating profits and cash flows could be adversely affected. Historically, sales of our products have been subject to cyclical variations caused by changes in general economic conditions. Our revenues in our third quarter ending March 31 are also affected by the impact of weather on construction and installation programs and the annual budget cycles of major customers. The demand for our products reflects the capital investment decisions of our customers, which depend upon the general economic conditions of the markets that our customers serve, including, particularly, the petroleum and convenience store industries. During periods of expansion in construction and industrial activity, we generally have benefited from increased demand for our products. Conversely, downward economic cycles in these industries result in reductions in sales and pricing of our products, which may reduce our profits and cash flow. During economic downturns, customers also tend to delay purchases of new products. The cyclical and seasonal nature of our business could at times adversely affect our liquidity and financial results. - 10 - Table of Contents A loss of key personnel or inability to attract qualified personnel could have an adverse affect on our operating results. The Company’s future success depends on the ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing and finance personnel, and, to a significant extent, upon the efforts and abilities of senior management. The Company’s management philosophy of cost-control results in a very lean workforce. Future success of the Company will depend on, among other factors, the ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel, particularly management, research and development engineers and technical sales professionals. The loss of the services of any key employees or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The costs of litigation and compliance with environmental regulations, if significantly increased, could have an adverse affect on our operating profits. We are, and may in the future be, a party to any number of legal proceedings and claims, including those involving patent litigation, product liability, employment matters, and environmental matters, which could be significant. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we can offer no assurance that existing litigation or a future adverse development will not have a material adverse impact. We are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment, and it could potentially be possible we could incur substantial costs as a result of the noncompliance with or liability for clean up or other costs or damages under environmental laws. Uncertainties inherent in certain tax and accounting matters could adversely affect our operating results. The discussion of goodwill impairment and tax matters in Notes 6, 8 and 12 to our consolidated financial statements beginning on page F-35 is incorporated by reference. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. - 11 - Table of Contents 