ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Corporation’s business is subject to many risks and uncertainties. Although the Corporation seeks ways to manage these risks and develop programs to control those that management can, the Corporation ultimately cannot predict the extent to which these risks and uncertainties could affect results. Actual results may differ materially from management's expectations. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Corporation are discussed below. You should consider all of the following risks together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Economic conditions may adversely affect the Corporation’s financial performance. As a consequence of the economic slowdown that the United States experienced, business activity across a wide range of industries continues to face serious difficulties due to reduced consumer spending, the weakened financial condition of some borrowers and employment levels. A continued weakness or further weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which the Corporation does business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on the Corporation’s business: (i) a decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services; (ii) a decrease in the value of the Corporation’s loans or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; (iii) an impairment of certain of the Corporation’s intangible assets, such as goodwill; and (iv) an increase in the number of borrowers and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to the Corporation. Additionally, in light of economic conditions, the Corporation’s ability to assess the creditworthiness of its customers may be impaired if the models and approaches that it uses to select, manage and underwrite loans become less predictive of future behaviors. Further, competition in the Corporation’s industry may intensify as a result of consolidation of financial services companies in response to current market conditions and the Corporation may face increased regulatory scrutiny which may increase its costs and limit its ability to pursue business opportunities. 14 Commercial real estate and business loans increase the Corporation’s exposure to credit risks. At December 31, 2012, the Corporation’s portfolio of commercial real estate and business loans totaled $454 million or 50.8% of total loans. The Corporation’s plans are to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans, which generally expose the Corporation to a greater risk of nonpayment and loss than residential real estate or consumer loans because repayment of commercial real estate and business loans often depends on the successful operations and income stream of the borrower’s business. Additionally, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate and consumer loans. Also, some of the Corporation’s borrowers have more than one commercial loan outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Corporation to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to residential real estate and consumer loans. The Corporation targets its business lending and marketing strategy towards small to medium-sized businesses. These small to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses, the Corporation’s results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Increases to the allowance for loan losses may cause the Corporation’s earnings to decrease. The Corporation’s customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. Hence, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of its borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, management relies on loan quality reviews, past loss experience, and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in the Corporation’s loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease net income. The Corporation’s emphasis on the origination of commercial loans is one of the more significant factors in evaluating its allowance for credit losses. As the Corporation continues to increase the amount of these loans, additional or increased provisions for loan losses may be necessary, which could result in a decrease in earnings. Bank regulators periodically review the Corporation’s allowance for loan losses and may require the Corporation to increase its provision for loan losses or loan charge-offs. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and/or financial condition. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Corporation’s results of operations and financial condition. The Corporation’s results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Our financial results depend substantially on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities. If the Corporation’s interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than its interest-bearing liabilities in a given period as a result of decreasing interest rates, net interest income may decrease. Likewise, net interest income may decrease if interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets in a given period as a result of increasing interest rates. The Corporation has taken steps to mitigate this risk, such as holding fewer longer-term residential mortgages, as well as investing excess funds in shorter-term investments. Changes in interest rates also affect the fair value of the Corporation’s interest-earning assets and, in particular, its investment securities available for sale. Generally, the fair value of investment securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Decreases in the fair value of investment securities available for sale, therefore, could have an adverse effect on our shareholders’ equity or earnings if the decrease in fair value is deemed to be other than temporary. 15 Changes in interest rates may also affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, the Corporation is subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that it is unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on its existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Strong competition within our industry and market area could limit the Corporation’s growth and profitability. The Corporation faces substantial competition in all phases of its operations from a variety of different competitors. Future growth and success will depend on the ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. The Corporation competes for deposits, loans and other financial services with a variety of banks, thrifts, credit unions and other financial institutions as well as other entities which provide financial services. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as the Corporation. Many competitors have been in business for many years, have established customer bases, are larger, and have substantially higher lending limits. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties. The Corporation’s growth strategy may not prove to be successful and our market value and profitability may suffer. As part of the Corporation's strategy for continued growth, we may open additional branches. New branches do not initially contribute to operating profits due to the impact of overhead expenses and the start-up phase of generating loans and deposits. To the extent that additional branches are opened, the Corporation may experience the effects of higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations, which may have an adverse effect on the Corporation's levels of net income, return on average equity and return on average assets. In addition, the Corporation may acquire banks and related businesses that it believes provide a strategic fit with its business, such as the 2011 acquisition of Fort Orange Financial Corp. To the extent that the Corporation grows through acquisitions, it cannot provide assurance that such strategic decisions will be accretive to earnings. Compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act may increase the Corporation’s costs of operations and adversely affect the Corporation’s earnings and financial condition. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a significant overhaul of the CFPB as many aspects of the regulation of the financial-services industry. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act creates a new federal financial consumer protection agency, tightens capital standards, imposes clearing and margining requirements on many derivatives activities, and generally increases oversight and regulation of financial institutions and financial activities. In addition to the self-implementing provisions of the statute, the Dodd-Frank Act calls for many administrative rulemakings by various federal agencies to implement various parts of the legislation. While regulators have adopted a number of new rules required by the Dodd-Frank Act, others have not been proposed or if proposed, not been adopted in final form. The Corporation cannot be certain when final rules affecting it will be issued through such rulemakings, and what the specific content of such rules will be. The financial reform legislation and any implementing rules that are ultimately issued could have adverse implications on the financial industry, the competitive environment, and the Corporation’s ability to conduct business. The Corporation will have to apply resources to ensure that it is in compliance with all applicable provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and any implementing rules, which may increase the Corporation’s costs of operations and adversely impact its earnings. 16 The Corporation operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Currently, the Corporation and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by regulatory authorities. For example, the Corporation is regulated by the Federal Reserve and the Bank is regulated by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the NYSDFS. Such regulators govern the activities in which the Corporation and its subsidiaries may engage. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank, and the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on the Corporation and its operations. The Corporation believes that it is in substantial compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and applicable regulations are subject to regular modification and change. There can be no assurance that proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other law, rule or regulation, will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. The Corporation is a holding company and depends on its subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. The Corporation is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank and other subsidiaries. Its principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to its shareholders, is dividends from the Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by the Bank to the Corporation, as well as by the Corporation to its shareholders. Federal Reserve regulations affect the ability of the Bank to pay dividends and other distributions and to make loans to the Corporation. If the Bank is unable to make dividend payments to the Corporation and sufficient capital is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common shareholders. The Corporation holds certain intangible assets that could be classified as impaired in the future. If these assets are considered to be either partially or fully impaired in the future, our earnings and the book values of these assets would decrease. The Corporation is required to test its goodwill and core deposit intangible assets for impairment on a periodic basis. The impairment testing process considers a variety of factors, including the current market price of its common stock, the estimated net present value of its assets and liabilities, and information concerning the terminal valuation of similarly situated insured depository institutions. If an impairment determination is made in a future reporting period, our earnings and the book value of these intangible assets would be reduced by the amount of the impairment. If an impairment loss is recorded, it will have little or no impact on the tangible book value of our common shares or our regulatory capital levels, but such an impairment loss could significantly restrict the Bank from paying a dividend to the Corporation. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities in which we engage can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the business because we would lose the employees’ skills, knowledge of the market, and years of industry experience and may have difficulty promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. 17 Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, which may result in a material adverse effect on our business. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Corporation continually encounters technological change and the failure to understand and adapt to these changes could adversely affect our business. The banking industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The Corporation's future success will depend, in part, on the ability to address the needs of customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in operations. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. There can be no assurance that the Corporation will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing such products and services to customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation is subject to security and operational risks relating to its use of technology. Despite instituted safeguards, the Corporation cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. The Corporation relies on the services of a variety of vendors to meet its data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and the Corporation could be exposed to claims from customers. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, as well as New York law and certain banking laws, could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Provisions of the Corporation’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws, New York law, and state and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring the Corporation, despite the possible benefit to the Corporation’s shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of the Corporation’s common stock. These provisions include: a two-thirds affirmative vote of all outstanding shares of Corporation stock for certain business combinations; a supermajority shareholder vote of 75% of outstanding stock for business combinations involving 10% shareholders; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; and advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Corporation’s board of directors and for proposing matters that shareholders may act on at a shareholder meeting. In addition, the Corporation is subject to New York law, which among other things prohibits the Corporation from engaging in a business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of five years from the date the person became an interested stockholder unless certain conditions are met. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discouraging bids for the Corporation’s common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of the Corporation’s common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors other than candidates nominated by the Board. 18 The risks presented by acquisitions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The business strategy of the Corporation has included and may continue to include growth through acquisition from time to time. Any future acquisitions will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions. These risks may include, among other things: our ability to realize anticipated cost savings, the difficulty of integrating operations and personnel, the loss of key employees, the potential disruption of our or the acquired company’s ongoing business in such a way that could result in decreased revenues, the inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position, the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and the impairment of relationships with the acquired company’s employees and customers as a result of changes in ownership and management. Severe weather and other natural disasters can affect the Corporation’s business. Our main office and our branch offices can be affected by natural disasters such as severe storms and flooding. These kinds of events could interrupt our operations, particularly our ability to deliver deposit and other retail banking services to our customers and as a result, our business could suffer serious harm. While we maintain adequate insurance against property and casualty losses arising from most natural disasters, and we have successfully overcome the challenges caused by past flooding in Central New York, there can be no assurance that we will be as successful if and when disasters occur. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 