Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Industry Risk Factors Limited availability of financing for manufactured homes on leased land and higher costs of this financing could limit the ability of consumers to purchase manufactured homes, resulting in reduced demand for our products. Frequently, manufactured homes are purchased, and the land on which they are placed is leased. Loans used to finance the purchase of manufactured homes without land, also called chattel loans, have shorter terms and higher interest rates, and may be more difficult to obtain than mortgages for manufactured or site-built homes that are on owned land. The availability, cost and terms of these chattel loans are also dependent on economic conditions, lending practices of financial institutions, governmental policies, and other factors that are beyond our control. Reductions in the availability of financing for manufactured homes and increases in the costs of this financing could limit the ability of consumers to purchase manufactured homes, resulting in reduced demand for our products. 4 Reductions in the availability of wholesale financing may prevent retailers from carrying an adequate inventory of RVs or manufactured homes, which could reduce demand for our products. Retailers of RVs and manufactured homes generally finance their purchases of inventory with financing provided by lending institutions, often called floor plan financing. Reductions in the availability of wholesale financing may prevent retailers from carrying an adequate inventory of RVs or manufactured homes, which could reduce demand for our products. High levels of repossessions of manufactured homes could cause manufacturers to reduce production of new manufactured homes, resulting in reduced demand for our products. Lower credit standards by lenders several years ago and prevailing economic conditions caused an increase in the number of manufactured homes repossessed by lenders. Repossessed homes are resold by lenders, often at substantially reduced prices, which reduces the demand for new manufactured homes. High levels of repossessions could cause manufacturers to reduce production of new manufactured homes, resulting in reduced demand for our products. Changes in zoning regulations for manufactured homes could lead to reduced demand for our products. Manufactured housing communities and individual home placements are subject to local zoning regulations. In the past, there has been resistance by local property owners and zoning officials to zoning ordinances allowing the location of manufactured homes in areas comprised of conventional residences. Continued resistance to these zoning ordinances could have an adverse impact on sales of manufactured homes, which could reduce demand for our products. Gasoline shortages, or higher prices for gasoline, could lead to reduced demand for our products. Increases in the price of gasoline, or anticipation of potential fuel shortages, could adversely affect consumer demand for RVs, which could reduce demand for our products. Excess inventories by retailers and manufacturers could cause a decline in the demand for our products. Retailers and manufacturers of RVs and manufactured homes may carry excess inventory, as they periodically have in the past. When excess inventory is sold, the manufacturers of RVs and manufactured homes may reduce production of new vehicles and homes, which could cause a decline in demand for our products. Business cycles may cause substantial fluctuations in our operating results. Both the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries are impacted by business cycles and this may cause substantial fluctuations in our operating results. Business cycles may depend upon general economic conditions, interest rates, consumer confidence, demographic changes, and other factors beyond our control. Company-specific Risk Factors Increases in raw material costs could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Steel is one of our primary raw materials, representing about 50 percent of our raw material costs. In mid-December 2003 and during 2004, we were notified by our steel suppliers of unprecedented steel cost increases. The prices we pay for steel, depending on the type of steel purchased, are currently approximately double the price levels at the end of 2003. The impact of higher steel costs has been offset by surcharges and sales price increases to our customers. In addition to steel, our other primary raw materials are aluminum, vinyl, glass and ABS resin, which are also subject to cost fluctuation. In 2004 and 2005, we also received cost increases from suppliers of aluminum, vinyl, glass and ABS resin. Because competition may limit the amount of increases in raw material costs that can be passed through to customers in the form of price increases, future increases in raw material costs could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. 5 Inadequate supply of imported raw materials used to make our products could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. We have recently begun to import a significant portion of the raw materials that we use in manufacturing our products. If these imported raw materials become unavailable, or if the supply of these raw materials is interrupted, our manufacturing operations could be adversely affected. Increases in labor rates or reduced availability of labor could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Certain geographic regions in which we have manufacturing facilities have very low unemployment rates. This could result in shortages of qualified employees and increased labor costs. Because competition may limit the amount of labor increases that can be passed through to customers in the form of price increases, increased labor costs could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. We are involved in certain litigation, which if decided adversely to us could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. The litigation is described in this Report in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings”. FEMA-related orders resulting from the Gulf Coast hurricanes are not expected to continue which would impact our operating results. The recent increase in business from our RV and manufactured housing customers as a result of FEMA-related orders since September 2005 is not expected to continue, which would reduce demand for our products. The loss of any customer accounting for more than 10 percent of our consolidated sales could have an adverse impact on our operating results. One customer of the RV Segment accounted for 21 percent, and another customer accounted for 13 percent, of the Company’s consolidated net sales in 2005. The loss of either of these customers could have a material adverse impact on operating results; however, because we sell a variety of products to these customers in several geographic regions, we believe it is unlikely that we would lose the entire business of either of these customers. Competitive pressures could reduce demand for our products. We have several competitors. Competitors may lower prices or develop product improvements which could reduce demand for our products. The financial condition of several of our significant customers could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Financial difficulties of our significant customers could result in reduced demand for our products, as well as losses due to the inability to collect accounts receivable. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 6 RV Segment Through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, the Company manufactures and markets a number of components for RVs, primarily travel trailers and fifth wheels, including aluminum windows, a variety of doors, steel chassis, steel chassis parts, RV slide-out mechanisms and related power units, and electric stabilizer jacks. During late 2004 and 2005, the Company introduced several new products for the RV and specialty trailer markets, including products for the motorhome market, a new RV category for the Company. New products introduced in 2004 and 2005 included slide-out mechanisms and leveling devices for motorhomes, axles for towable RVs and specialty trailers, entry steps for towable RVs, and thermo-formed bath products and exterior parts for both towable RVs and motorhomes. The Company estimates that the market potential of these products is approximately $700 million, and in the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company’s sales of these products were running at an annualized rate of more than $70 million. In 2005, the RV Segment represented approximately 67 percent of the Company’s consolidated sales, and 64 percent of consolidated segment operating profit. The Company’s RV segment also manufactures and markets specialty trailers for hauling equipment, boats, personal watercraft and snowmobiles. The RV Segment also supplies related products to other industries, representing less than 5 percent of sales of this segment. Raw materials used by the Company’s RV Segment, consisting primarily of fabricated steel (coil, sheet, tube and I-beam), extruded aluminum, glass, and various adhesive and insulating components, are available from a number of sources. See Item 1A. “Risk Factors” for a discussion of increases in the cost of steel and other raw materials utilized by the Company. Operations of the Company’s RV Segment consist primarily of fabricating, welding, painting and assembling components into finished products, and tempering glass. The Company’s RV Segment operations are conducted at 29 manufacturing and warehouse facilities throughout the United States and one in Canada, strategically located in proximity to the customers they serve. Of these facilities, 11 also conduct operations in the Company’s MH Segment. See Item 2. “Properties.” The Company’s RV products are sold by 13 sales personnel, working exclusively for the Company, primarily to major manufacturers of RVs such as Fleetwood Enterprises, Forest River and Thor Industries. The Company’s RV Segment operations compete on the basis of price, customer service, product quality, and reliability. Although definitive information is not readily available, the Company believes that its market share for most of its towable recreational vehicle window and door products exceeds 70 percent. Although definitive information is not readily available, the Company believes that the two leading suppliers of RV chassis and chassis parts are the Company and Leland Engineering, a subsidiary of Tomkins, PLC, and that the Company’s market share for RV chassis and chassis parts approximates 60 percent. Sales of the Company’s slide-out mechanisms and related power units have grown from virtually zero in 2001 to sales in excess of $89 million during 2005. The Company competes with several other manufacturers of slide-out mechanisms. The Company expects future growth in sales of its slide-out products to come primarily from slide-out products for motorhomes, which the Company began selling in 2004. Although definitive information is not readily available, the Company believes that its market share for slide-out mechanisms for travel trailers and fifth wheel RVs currently exceeds 50 percent, and exceeds 15 percent for motorhomes. See Item 1. “Intellectual Property” for a description of the patent license agreement applicable to the Company’s slide-out mechanisms. The Company’s operation as a manufacturer of specialty trailers for hauling equipment, boats, personal watercraft and snowmobiles competes with several other manufacturers of specialty trailers. Although definitive information is not readily available, the Company believes that its overall market share for specialty trailers in the product lines the Company supplies is approximately 20 percent, but is significantly greater on the West Coast. 7 MH Segment The Company’s subsidiaries in the MH Segment manufacture and market a number of components for manufactured homes and, to a lesser extent, modular housing and office units, including vinyl and aluminum windows and screens, thermo-formed bath products, steel chassis, steel chassis parts, and axles. In 2005, the MH Segment represented approximately 33 percent of the Company’s consolidated sales, and 36 percent of consolidated segment operating profit. The MH Segment also supplies related products to other industries, representing less than 5 percent of sales of this segment. Raw materials used by the Company’s MH Segment, consisting of fabricated steel (coil, sheet, and I-beam), extruded aluminum and vinyl, glass, ABS resin, and various adhesive and insulating components, are available from a number of sources. Operations of the Company’s MH Segment consist primarily of fabricating, welding, thermo-forming, painting and assembling components into finished products. The Company’s MH Segment operations are conducted at 29 manufacturing and warehouse facilities throughout the United States, strategically located in proximity to the customers they serve. Of these facilities, 11 also conduct operations in the Company’s RV Segment. See Item 2. “Properties.” The Company’s manufactured housing products are sold by 14 sales personnel, working exclusively for the Company, to major builders of manufactured homes such as Cavalier Homes, Champion Enterprises, Clayton Homes, Fleetwood Enterprises, and Skyline Corporation. The Company’s MH Segment competes on the basis of price, customer service, product quality, and reliability. Although definitive information is not readily available, the Company believes that the two leading suppliers of windows for manufactured homes are the Company and Philips Industries, a subsidiary of Tomkins, PLC, and that the Company’s market share for windows and screens is more than 60 percent. The Company’s MH chassis and chassis parts operations compete with several other manufacturers of chassis and chassis parts, as well as with builders of manufactured homes, most of which produce their own chassis and chassis parts. The Company’s thermo-formed bath unit operation competes with three other manufacturers of bath units. Although definitive information is not readily available, the Company believes that its market share for chassis and chassis parts for manufactured homes is approximately 25 percent, and that its market share for bath products in the product lines the Company supplies is approximately 35 percent. Sales and Manufacturing Other than the activities of its sales personnel and maintenance of customer relationships through price, quality of its products, service, and customer satisfaction, the Company does not engage in significant marketing efforts nor incur significant marketing or advertising expenditures. The Company does not have any significant long-term supply agreements or other formal relationships with its customers. Both the RV Segment and the MH Segment typically ship products on average within one week of receipt of orders from their customers and, as a result, neither segment has any significant backlog. The Company’s facilities which produce RV products are operating at approximately 75 percent or more of their practical capacity. Overall, most of the Company’s facilities which produce MH products have the ability to approximately double production capacity should the manufactured housing industry demand grow. The Company has 48 facilities, and for most products has the ability to fill demand in excess of capacity at individual facilities by shifting production to other facilities, but the Company would incur additional freight costs. To alleviate forecasted capacity constraints, capital expenditures for 2005 were $26 million compared to an average of $15 million in the prior five years. The need to expand capacity in certain product areas, as well as the potential reallocation of existing resources, is monitored regularly by management. The Company’s operations are somewhat seasonal as sales are slower in the winter months, as are the industries which the Company supplies. 8 Intellectual Property The Company manufactures and sells certain of its slide-out mechanisms pursuant to a non-exclusive license granted by the exclusive licensee and owner of three patents until October 24, 2017, the date of the last to expire of the patents. Pursuant to the license, royalties are payable by the Company on an annual declining percentage (1.5 percent for 2005 and 2006; and 1 percent from 2007 to expiration of the patents) of sales of certain slide-out mechanisms produced by the Company, with remaining annual minimum royalties of $1,250,000 through 2006. For 2005, the Company paid a royalty of approximately $1,250,000 on sales of applicable slide-out systems of approximately $42 million. Royalties for the period from 2007 through the expiration of the patents are limited to an aggregate of $5 million and there are no annual minimum royalties during such period. The Company holds several United States patents that relate to various products sold by the Company. While the Company believes that its patents are valuable and patent protection is important, none of these patents is essential to the Company or its business segments. From time to time the Company has received notices that it may be infringing certain patent rights of others, and the Company has given notices to others that they may be infringing certain patent rights of the Company. No material litigation or claims are pending as a result of these notices. Regulatory Matters Windows produced by the Company for manufactured homes must comply with performance and construction regulations promulgated by the United States Housing and Urban Development Authority (“HUD”) and by the American Architectural Manufacturers Association relating to air and water infiltration, thermal performance, emergency exit conformance, and hurricane resistance. Thermo-formed bath products manufactured by the Company for manufactured homes must comply with performance and construction regulations promulgated by HUD, the American National Standards Institute, the American Society for Testing and Materials, and Underwriters Laboratory relating to fire resistance, electrical safety, color fastness, and stain resistance. Windows and doors produced by the Company for the RV industry are regulated by The United States Department of Transportation Federal Highway Administration (“DOT”), National Fire and Protection Agency, and the National Electric Code governing safety glass performance, egressability, door hinge and lock systems, egress window retention hardware, and baggage door ventilation. Manufactured homes are built on steel chassis which are fitted with axles and tires sufficient in number to support the weight of the home, and are transported by producers to dealers via roadway. The Company also sells new tires and axles. New tires distributed by the Company are subject to regulations promulgated by DOT and by HUD relating to weight tolerance, maximum speed, size, and components. Trailers produced by the Company for hauling equipment, boats, personal watercraft and snowmobiles must comply with regulations promulgated by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration of the DOT and Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards relating to lighting, breaking, wheels, tires and other vehicle systems. Rules promulgated under the Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability and Documentation Act (the “Tread Act”) require manufacturers of motor vehicles and certain motor vehicle related equipment to regularly make reports and submit documents and certain historical data to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to enhance motor vehicle safety. The Company’s operations are also subject to certain Federal, state and local regulatory requirements relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals used during their manufacturing processes. The Company believes that it is currently operating in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and does not believe that the expense of compliance with these laws and regulations, as currently in effect, will have a material effect on the Company’s capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. 9 Employees The number of persons employed full-time by the Company and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2005 was 4,541. Of the total, 3,856 were in manufacturing and product research and development, 153 in transportation, 27 in sales, 119 in customer support and servicing and 386 in administration. None of the employees of the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to collective bargaining agreements. The Company and its subsidiaries believe that relations with its employees are good. Item 