Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Industry Risk Factors Economic and business conditions beyond our control have had a significant adverse impact on our earnings, and could negatively impact our future results. Our net sales in 2009 fell 22 percent compared to 2008, which adversely impacted our operating results. We attributed this 2009 decline to a combination of factors, including the weak economy and resulting recession, tight credit, reduced availability of home equity credit lines, high unemployment, low consumer confidence, and the deterioration in the real estate and mortgage markets. As a result of these conditions, during 2009 dealers reduced inventories and consumers were cautious about making purchases of discretionary “big-ticket” items such as RVs and manufactured homes. Although these conditions abated somewhat during 2010, and our net sales in 2010 increased 44 percent compared to 2009, if the severity of these conditions resumes or worsens in the future, our earnings could be significantly impacted. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. The long-term decline in the retail demand and wholesale production of manufactured homes has reduced the demand for our manufactured housing products. Our annual results of operations could decline if manufactured housing industry conditions worsen. Reductions in the availability of wholesale financing limits the inventories carried by retail dealers of RVs and manufactured homes, which would cause reduced production of RVs and manufactured homes by our customers, and therefore reduced demand for our products. Retail dealers of RVs and manufactured homes generally finance their purchases of inventory with financing known as floor-plan financing provided by lending institutions. Reduction in the availability of floor-plan financing has caused, and would cause, many dealers to reduce inventories of RVs and manufactured homes, which would result in reduced production of RVs and manufactured homes, resulting in reduced demand for our products. Moreover, dealers which are unable to obtain adequate financing could cease operations. Their remaining inventories would likely be sold at deep discounts. Such sales would cause a decline in orders for new inventory, which would reduce demand for our products. 9 Conditions in the credit market could limit the ability of consumers to obtain financing for RVs and manufactured homes, resulting in reduced demand for our products. As a result of the recession and the factors leading to it, there have been significant changes in the lending practices of financial institutions, and many lenders have severely restricted loan availability. Limitations on the availability of financing for RVs and manufactured homes has limited, and could continue to limit, the ability of consumers to purchase RVs and manufactured homes, resulting in reduced production of RVs and manufactured homes by our customers, and therefore reduced demand for our products. Limited availability of financing for manufactured homes, and higher costs of financing, limits the ability of consumers to purchase manufactured homes, which would result in reduced demand for our products. Loans used to finance the purchase of manufactured homes usually have shorter terms and higher interest rates, and are more difficult to obtain than mortgages for site-built homes. Historically, lenders required higher down payment, higher credit scores and other criteria for these loans. Current lending criteria are even higher, and many potential buyers of manufactured homes may not qualify. The availability, cost, and terms of these loans are also dependent on economic conditions, lending practices of financial institutions, governmental policies, and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. Reductions in the availability of financing for manufactured homes and increases in the costs of this financing have limited, and could continue to limit, the ability of consumers to purchase manufactured homes, resulting in reduced production of manufactured homes by our customers, and therefore reduced demand for our products. Excess inventories at dealers and manufacturers can cause a decline in the demand for our products. In response to a decline in retail sales of RVs and manufactured homes, dealers and manufacturers of RVs and manufactured homes could accumulate excess unsold inventory. Existence of excess inventory has caused, and would cause, a reduction in orders for new RVs and manufactured homes, which would cause a decline in demand for our products. High levels of repossessions of manufactured homes and RVs could cause manufacturers to reduce production of new manufactured homes and RVs, resulting in reduced demand for our products. Repossessed manufactured homes and RVs are resold by lenders, often at substantially reduced prices, which reduces the demand for new manufactured homes and RVs. Economic conditions have resulted, and could continue to result, in loan defaults and cause high levels of repossessions, which would cause manufacturers to reduce production of new manufactured homes and RVs, resulting in reduced demand for our products. Gasoline shortages, or high prices for gasoline, could lead to reduced demand for our products. Travel trailer and fifth-wheel RVs, components for which represent more than 90 percent of our RV Segment net sales, are usually towed by light trucks or SUVs. Generally, these vehicles use more fuel than automobiles, particularly while towing RVs. High prices for gasoline, or anticipation of potential fuel shortages, can affect consumer use and purchase of light trucks and SUVs, which would result in reduced demand for fifth-wheel RVs and travel trailers, and therefore reduced demand for our products. The manufactured housing industry has been experiencing a significant decline in shipments, which may continue. Our MH Segment, which accounted for 17 percent of consolidated net sales for 2010, operates in an industry which has been experiencing a decline in production of new homes since 1998. The downturn was caused, in part, by limited availability and high cost of financing for manufactured homes, and has been exacerbated by economic conditions. 10 Moreover, because of the weak market for conventional housing, retirees may not be able to sell their primary residence, or may be unwilling to sell at currently depressed prices, and purchase less expensive manufactured homes. In addition, the availability of foreclosed site-built homes at reduced prices has impacted, and could continue to impact, the demand for manufactured homes. If these conditions persist, it is not likely that the manufactured housing industry will improve in the short-term. Certain of our manufactured housing customers have experienced financial difficulties and more of our manufactured housing customers may be similarly affected. These factors could result in reduced demand for products from our MH Segment, as well as difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. Changes in zoning regulations for manufactured homes could lead to reduced demand for our products. Manufactured housing communities and individual home placements are subject to local zoning regulations. There has been resistance by local property owners and zoning officials to zoning ordinances allowing the location of manufactured homes in certain areas comprised of conventional residences. Continued resistance to these zoning ordinances could have an adverse impact on sales and production of manufactured homes, which would reduce demand for our products. Company-specific Risk Factors Volatile raw material costs could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. The prices we pay for steel, which represents about 50 percent of our raw material costs, and other key raw materials, have been volatile. Because competition and business conditions may limit the amount or timing of increases in raw material costs that can be passed through to customers in the form of selling price increases, future increases in raw material costs could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Conversely, as raw material costs decline, we may not be able to maintain selling prices consistent with higher cost raw materials in our inventory, which could adversely affect our operating results. Inadequate supply of raw materials used to make our products could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. If raw materials or components that are used in manufacturing our products, particularly those which we import, become unavailable, or if the supply of these raw materials and components is interrupted, our manufacturing operations could be adversely affected. The Company currently imports approximately 15 percent of its raw materials and components. We are involved in certain litigation, which, if decided against us, could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. A case was pending against Kinro, purporting to be a class action, in which it was alleged that certain bathtubs manufactured by Kinro for use in manufactured homes failed to comply with certain safety standards relating to flame spread. Kinro denied the allegations, vigorously defended against the claims and, based on extensive investigation, believes that the bathtubs were in compliance with applicable regulations. The named plaintiffs asserted seven claims against Kinro, all of which were dismissed by the Court during the course of the proceedings. The named plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal. Further detail regarding the litigation is provided in this Form 10-K in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” 11 The loss of any customer accounting for more than 10 percent of our consolidated net sales, and the consolidation of customers in our industry, could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. One customer of the RV Segment accounted for 41 percent, and another customer of both the RV Segment and the MH Segment accounted for 26 percent, of our consolidated net sales in 2010. The loss of either of these customers would have a material adverse impact on our operating results. In the third quarter of 2010, two of our customers, which together represented 41 percent of our consolidated 2010 net sales, combined. The concentration of sales of our products to fewer customers as a result of consolidation of manufacturers in the industries we serve could impact our sales prices, which would adversely impact our operating results. The financial condition of our customers could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Financial difficulties experienced by certain of our customers could result in reduced demand for our products, as well as losses due to the inability to collect accounts receivable. Competitive pressures could reduce demand for our products. Domestic and foreign competitors may lower prices on products which currently compete with our products, or develop product improvements, which could reduce demand for our products. In addition, the manufacture by our customers of products supplied by us could reduce demand for our products. The loss of any of our key operating management could reduce our ability to execute our business strategy and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations We are dependent to a significant extent upon the efforts of our key operating management. The loss of the services of one or more of our key operating management could impair our ability to execute our business strategy, which would have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 12 