Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Industry Risk Factors Economic and business conditions beyond our control have had a significant adverse impact on our earnings, and these conditions may continue. Our net sales in 2009 fell 22 percent compared to 2008, which adversely impacted our operating results. We attribute this decline to a combination of factors, including the weak economy and resulting recession, tight credit, low consumer confidence, and the deterioration in the real estate and mortgage markets. As a result of these conditions, which may continue, dealers reduced inventories and consumers have been cautious about making purchases of discretionary “big-ticket” items such as RVs and manufactured homes. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. The severe decline in the retail demand and wholesale production of RVs and manufactured homes has reduced the demand for our products. Our annual results of operations could decline if industry conditions worsen. Reductions in the availability of wholesale financing limits the inventories carried by retail dealers of RVs and manufactured homes, which causes reduced production of RVs and manufactured homes and reduced demand for our products. Retail dealers of RVs and manufactured homes generally finance their purchases of inventory with financing known as floor-plan financing provided by lending institutions. Reduction in the availability of floor-plan financing would cause many dealers to reduce inventories of RVs and manufactured homes, which would result in reduced production of RVs and manufactured homes, resulting in reduced demand for our products. Moreover, dealers which are unable to obtain adequate financing could cease operations. Their remaining inventories would likely be sold at deep discounts. Such sales would cause a decline in orders for new inventory, which would reduce demand for our products. The recession and conditions in the credit market have limited, and could continue to limit, the ability of consumers to obtain financing for RVs and manufactured homes, resulting in reduced demand for our products. As a result of the recession and the factors leading to it, there have been significant changes in the lending practices of financial institutions, and many lenders have severely restricted loan availability. Limitations on the availability of financing for RVs and manufactured homes limit the ability of consumers to purchase RVs and manufactured homes, resulting in reduced production, and reduced demand for our products. Limited availability of financing for manufactured homes and higher costs of this financing limits the ability of consumers to purchase manufactured homes, which would result in reduced demand for our products. Loans used to finance the purchase of manufactured homes usually have shorter terms and higher interest rates, and are more difficult to obtain than mortgages for site-built homes. Historically, lenders required higher down payment, higher credit scores and other criteria for these loans. Current lending criteria are even higher, and many potential buyers of manufactured homes may not qualify. 8 The availability, cost, and terms of these loans are also dependent on economic conditions, lending practices of financial institutions, governmental policies, and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. Reductions in the availability of financing for manufactured homes and increases in the costs of this financing have limited, and could continue to limit, the ability of consumers to purchase manufactured homes, resulting in reduced production of manufactured homes and reduced demand for our products. Excess inventories at dealers and manufacturers can cause a decline in the demand for our products. As a result of the severe decline in sales of RVs and manufactured homes, dealers and manufacturers of RVs and manufactured homes carried excess unsold inventory. Existence of excess inventory can cause a reduction in orders for new RVs and manufactured homes, which would cause a decline in demand for our products. High levels of repossessions of manufactured homes and RVs could cause manufacturers to reduce production of new manufactured homes and RVs, resulting in reduced demand for our products. Repossessed manufactured homes and RVs are resold by lenders, often at substantially reduced prices, which reduces the demand for new manufactured homes and RVs. Economic conditions could result in loan defaults and cause high levels of repossessions, which would cause manufacturers to reduce production of new manufactured homes and RVs, resulting in reduced demand for our products. Gasoline shortages, or high prices for gasoline, could lead to reduced demand for our products. Travel trailer and fifth-wheel RVs, components for which represent nearly 93 percent of our RV Segment sales, are usually towed by light trucks or SUVs. Generally, these vehicles use more fuel than automobiles, particularly while towing RVs. High prices for gasoline, or anticipation of potential fuel shortages, can affect consumer use and purchase of light trucks and SUVs, which would result in reduced demand for fifth-wheel RVs and travel trailers, and therefore reduced demand for our products. Disposition into the market by FEMA of RVs or manufactured homes could result in reduced demand for our products. From time to time, FEMA purchases RVs or manufactured homes for use in connection with natural disasters or other circumstances resulting in home displacements. Used or unused RVs or manufactured homes may later be disposed of by FEMA by sale or otherwise. Disposition of these RVs and manufactured homes in the market could reduce demand for new RVs and manufactured homes causing manufacturers to reduce production, which would result in reduced demand for our products. The manufactured housing industry has been experiencing a significant decline in shipments, which may continue. Our MH Segment, which accounted for 21 percent of consolidated net sales for 2009, operates in an industry which has been experiencing a decline in production of new homes since 1998. The downturn was caused, in part, by limited availability of financing, and has been exacerbated by economic conditions. Moreover, because of the weak market for conventional housing, retirees may not be able to sell their primary residences, or may be unwilling to sell at currently depressed prices, and purchase less expensive manufactured homes. In addition, the availability of foreclosed site-built homes at reduced prices could impact the demand for manufactured homes. If these conditions persist, it is not likely that the manufactured housing industry will improve in the short-term, and certain of our customers could experience financial difficulties. These factors could result in reduced demand for products from our MH Segment, as well as difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. 9 Changes in zoning regulations for manufactured homes could lead to reduced demand for our products. Manufactured housing communities and individual home placements are subject to local zoning regulations. In the past, there has been resistance by local property owners and zoning officials to zoning ordinances allowing the location of manufactured homes in certain areas comprised of conventional residences. Continued resistance to these zoning ordinances could have an adverse impact on sales and production of manufactured homes, which would reduce demand for our products. Recently enacted legislation and regulatory changes relating to the financial services industry could impact the industries we serve which could result in reduced demand for our products. The Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 (“SAFE Act”) was signed into law in July, 2008. The SAFE Act is intended to establish, within one year from its passage, minimum state standards for licensing and registration of mortgage lenders, brokers and originators. According to the RVIA and the Manufactured Housing Institute, this legislation could make loans for RVs and manufactured homes more difficult to obtain, resulting in fewer sales of RVs and manufactured homes, and less demand for our products. Company-specific Risk Factors Volatile raw material costs could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. The prices we pay for steel, which represents about 50 percent of our raw material costs, and other key raw materials, have been volatile. Because competition and business conditions may limit the amount or timing of increases in raw material costs that can be passed through to customers in the form of price increases, future increases in raw material costs could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Conversely, as raw material costs decline, we may not be able to maintain selling prices consistent with higher cost raw materials in our inventory, which could adversely affect our operating results. Inadequate supply of raw materials used to make our products could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. If raw materials or components that are used in manufacturing our products, particularly those which we import, become unavailable, or if the supply of these raw materials and components is interrupted, our manufacturing operations could be adversely affected. The Company currently imports approximately 15 percent of its raw materials and components. We are involved in certain litigation, which, if decided against us, could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. A case is pending against Kinro, purporting to be a class action, in which it is alleged that certain bathtubs manufactured by Kinro for use in manufactured homes fail to comply with certain safety standards relating to flame spread. Kinro denies the allegations, is vigorously defending against the claims, and based on extensive investigation, believes that the bathtubs are in compliance with applicable regulations. Further detail regarding the litigation is provided in this Form 10-K in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” The loss of any customer accounting for more than 10 percent of our consolidated net sales, and the consolidation of customers in our industry, could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. One customer of the RV Segment accounted for 25 percent, and another customer of both the RV Segment and the MH Segment accounted for 24 percent, of our consolidated net sales in 2009. The loss of either of these customers could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. In addition, the concentration of sales of our products to fewer customers as a result of consolidation of manufacturers in the industries we serve could adversely impact our operating results. 10 The financial condition of several of our significant customers could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Financial difficulties experienced by certain of our significant customers as a result of the sharp decline in sales of RVs and manufactured homes could result in reduced demand for our products, as well as losses due to the inability to collect accounts receivable. Competitive pressures could reduce demand for our products. Domestic and foreign competitors may lower prices on products which currently compete with our products, or develop product improvements, which could reduce demand for our products. In addition, the manufacture by our customers of products supplied by us could reduce demand for our products. Non-cash charges for impairment of long-lived other intangible assets may be required. The declines in the industries to which we sell our products have been severe, and demand for our products has declined. Continuation of the decline in these industries could result in non-cash impairment charges. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. Item 