Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Industry Risk Factors Economic and business conditions beyond our control, including cyclicality and seasonality, have had a significant adverse impact on our earnings, and could negatively impact our future results. In 2009, a combination of factors, including the weak economy and resulting recession, tight credit, reduced availability of home equity credit lines, high unemployment, low consumer confidence, and the deterioration in the real estate and mortgage markets adversely impacted our operating results. As a result of these conditions, dealers reduced inventories and consumers were cautious about making purchases of discretionary “big-ticket” items such as RVs and manufactured homes. These conditions abated somewhat during 2010 and 2011, and our net sales in 2010 increased 44 percent compared to 2009, and in 2011 increased 19 percent compared to 2010. However, if the severity of these conditions resumes or worsens in the future, our earnings could be significantly impacted. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The RV and manufactured housing markets have been characterized by cycles of growth and contraction in consumer demand. Companies in these industries are subject to volatility in sales and operating results due to external factors such as economic and demographic changes. Consequently, the results for any prior period may not be indicative of results for any future period. In addition, the long-term decline in the retail demand and wholesale production of manufactured homes has reduced the demand for our manufactured housing products. Our annual results of operations could decline if manufactured housing industry conditions worsen. 9 Reductions in the availability of wholesale financing limits the inventories carried by retail dealers of RVs and manufactured homes, which would cause reduced production of RVs and manufactured homes by our customers, and therefore reduced demand for our products. Retail dealers of RVs and manufactured homes generally finance their purchases of inventory with financing known as floor-plan financing provided by lending institutions. Reduction in the availability of floor-plan financing has caused, and would cause, many dealers to reduce inventories of RVs and manufactured homes, which would result in reduced production of RVs and manufactured homes, resulting in reduced demand for our products. Moreover, dealers which are unable to obtain adequate financing could cease operations. Their remaining inventories would likely be sold at deep discounts. Such sales would cause a decline in orders for new inventory, which would reduce demand for our products. Conditions in the credit market could limit the ability of consumers to obtain retail financing for RVs and manufactured homes, resulting in reduced demand for our products. As a result of the recession and the factors leading to it, significant changes were implemented in the lending practices of financial institutions, and many lenders restricted loan availability. Restrictions on the availability of financing for RVs and manufactured homes limited the ability of consumers to purchase RVs and manufactured homes. Although these conditions have abated somewhat, a return to these conditions would again limit the ability of consumers to purchase RVs and manufactured homes, resulting in reduced production of RVs and manufactured homes by our customers, and therefore reduced demand for our products. Limited availability of retail financing for manufactured homes, and higher costs of financing, limits the ability of consumers to purchase manufactured homes, which would result in reduced demand for our products. Loans used to finance the purchase of manufactured homes usually have shorter terms and higher interest rates, and are more difficult to obtain, than mortgages for site-built homes. Historically, lenders required higher down payment, higher credit scores and other criteria for these loans. Current lending criteria are higher than historical criteria, and many potential buyers of manufactured homes may not qualify. The availability, cost, and terms of these loans are also dependent on economic conditions, lending practices of financial institutions, government policies, and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. Reductions in the availability of financing for manufactured homes and increases in the costs of this financing have limited, and could continue to limit, the ability of consumers to purchase manufactured homes, resulting in reduced production of manufactured homes by our customers, and therefore reduced demand for our products. Excess inventories at dealers and manufacturers can cause a decline in the demand for our products. In response to a decline in retail sales of RVs and manufactured homes, dealers and manufacturers of RVs and manufactured homes could accumulate excess unsold inventory. Existence of excess inventory has caused, and would cause, a reduction in orders for new RVs and manufactured homes, which would cause a decline in demand for our products. High levels of repossessions of manufactured homes and RVs could cause manufacturers to reduce production of new manufactured homes and RVs, resulting in reduced demand for our products. Repossessed manufactured homes and RVs are resold by lenders, often at substantially reduced prices, which reduces the demand for new manufactured homes and RVs. Economic conditions have resulted, and could continue to result, in loan defaults and cause high levels of repossessions, which would cause manufacturers to reduce production of new manufactured homes and RVs, resulting in reduced demand for our products. 10 Gasoline shortages, or high prices for gasoline, could lead to reduced demand for our products. Travel trailer and fifth-wheel RVs, components for which represent approximately 90 percent of our RV Segment net sales, are usually towed by light trucks or SUVs. Generally, these vehicles use more fuel than automobiles, particularly while towing RVs. High prices for gasoline, or anticipation of potential fuel shortages, can affect consumer use and purchase of light trucks and SUVs, which would result in reduced demand for travel trailer and fifth-wheel RVs, and therefore reduced demand for our products. The manufactured housing industry has been experiencing a significant long-term decline in shipments, which may continue. Our MH Segment, which accounted for 16 percent of consolidated net sales for 2011, operates in an industry which has experienced a decline in production of new homes since 1998. The downturn was caused, in part, by limited availability and high cost of financing for manufactured homes, and has been exacerbated by economic conditions. Moreover, because of the weak market for conventional housing, retirees may not be able to sell their primary residence, or may be unwilling to sell at currently depressed prices, and purchase less expensive manufactured homes. In addition, the availability of foreclosed site-built homes at reduced prices has impacted, and could continue to impact, the demand for manufactured homes. If these conditions persist, the manufactured housing industry may not improve significantly in the short-term. Certain of our manufactured housing customers have experienced financial difficulties and more of our manufactured housing customers may be similarly affected. These factors could result in reduced demand for products from our MH Segment, as well as difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. Changes in zoning regulations for manufactured homes could lead to reduced demand for our products. Manufactured housing communities and individual home placements are subject to local zoning regulations. There has been resistance by local property owners and zoning officials to zoning ordinances allowing the location of manufactured homes in certain areas comprised of conventional residences. Continued resistance to these zoning ordinances could have an adverse impact on sales and production of manufactured homes, which would reduce demand for our products. Company-specific Risk Factors Volatile raw material costs could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. The prices we pay for steel, which represents more than 50 percent of our raw material costs, and other key raw materials, have been volatile. Because competition and business conditions may limit the amount or timing of increases in raw material costs that can be passed through to our customers in the form of sales price increases, future increases in raw material costs could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Conversely, as raw material costs decline, we may not be able to maintain selling prices consistent with higher cost raw materials in our inventory, which could adversely affect our operating results. Inadequate supply of raw materials used to make our products could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. If raw materials or components that are used in manufacturing our products, particularly those which we import, become unavailable, or if the supply of these raw materials and components is interrupted, our manufacturing operations could be adversely affected. The Company currently imports approximately 12 percent of its raw materials and components. 11 We are involved in certain litigation, which, if decided against us, could have a material effect on our financial condition. A case is pending against Kinro, purporting to be a class action, in which it was alleged that certain bathtubs manufactured by Kinro for use in manufactured homes failed to comply with certain safety standards relating to flame spread. Kinro denied the allegations, vigorously defended against the claims and, based on extensive investigation, believes that the bathtubs were in compliance with applicable regulations. The named plaintiffs asserted seven claims against Kinro, all of which were dismissed by the Court during the course of the proceedings. The named plaintiffs appealed to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, they and Kinro filed appeal briefs, and a decision from the Court of Appeals is pending. Further detail regarding the litigation is provided in this Form 10-K in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” The loss of any customer accounting for more than 10 percent of our consolidated net sales, and the consolidation of customers in our industries, could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. One customer of the RV Segment accounted for 36 percent, and another customer of both the RV Segment and the MH Segment accounted for 27 percent, of our consolidated net sales in 2011. The loss of either of these customers would have a material adverse impact on our operating results. The concentration of sales of our products to fewer customers as a result of consolidation of manufacturers in the industries we serve could impact our sales prices, which would adversely impact our operating results. The financial condition of our customers could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Financial difficulties experienced by certain of our customers could result in reduced demand for our products, as well as losses due to the inability to collect accounts receivable. Competitive pressures could reduce demand for our products. Domestic and foreign competitors may lower prices on products which currently compete with our products, or develop product improvements, which could reduce demand for our products. In addition, the manufacture by our customers of products supplied by us could reduce demand for our products. Increases in demand could result in difficulty obtaining additional skilled labor, and available capacity may initially not be utilized efficiently. During 2011 and 2010, the Company experienced higher than usual production costs largely related to increased demand for certain of our products. Further, in certain geographic regions in which we have manufacturing facilities we have experienced shortages of qualified employees. If demand continues to increase, the Company may not be able to increase production to timely satisfy demand, and may initially incur higher labor and production costs, which could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. If recent acquisitions are not successfully integrated into our operations, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted. Since January 1, 2011, we acquired six separate businesses and their related assets. If we are unable to efficiently integrate these businesses into our existing operations, the attention of our management could be diverted from our existing operations, which could impair our ability to execute our business plans. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. 12 We have recently entered new markets in order to enhance our growth potential. Uncertainties with respect to these new markets could impact our operating results. The Company is a leading supplier of components for RVs and manufactured housing, and currently has a significant share of the market for certain of its products, which would limit our ability to expand our market share for those products. We have made investments in order to expand the sale of our products in the RV and manufactured housing aftermarket, and in adjacent markets beyond RVs and manufactured housing. Lack of demand for our products in these markets or competitive pressures requiring us to lower prices for our products would adversely impact our business in these markets and our results of operations. The loss of any of our key operating management could reduce our ability to execute our business strategy and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are dependent to a significant extent upon the efforts of our key operating management. The loss of the services of one or more of our key operating management could impair our ability to execute our business strategy, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are currently discussing with two key executives renewal of their employment agreements which recently expired. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 13 