Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face, but represent the most significant risk factors that we believe may adversely affect the RV, manufactured housing and other industries we supply our products to, as well as our business, operations or financial position. The risks and uncertainties discussed in this report are not exclusive and other risk factors that we may consider immaterial or do not anticipate may emerge as significant risks and uncertainties. Industry Risk Factors Economic and business conditions beyond our control, including cyclicality and seasonality, have in the past had a significant adverse impact on our earnings, and could negatively impact our future results. The RV and manufactured housing markets, as well as other markets where we sell our products or where our products are used, have been characterized by cycles of growth and contraction in consumer demand. Periods of economic recession have adversely affected, and could again adversely affect, our operating results. Companies in these industries are subject to volatility in production levels, shipments, sales and operating results due to changes in external factors such as general economic conditions, including credit availability, consumer confidence, employment rates, interest rates, inflation and other economic conditions affecting consumer demand, as well as demographic and political changes. Consequently, the results for any prior period may not be indicative of results for any future period. Additionally, manufacturing operations in the RV and manufactured housing industries, as well as other industries where we sell our products or where our products are used, historically have been seasonal and are generally at the highest levels when the weather is moderate. Accordingly, our sales and profits have generally been the highest in the second quarter and lowest in the fourth quarter. However, because of fluctuations in dealer inventories, and the impact of international, national and regional economic conditions and consumer confidence on retail sales of RVs and other products for which we sell our components, current and future seasonal industry trends may be different than in prior years. Reductions in the availability of wholesale financing limits the inventories carried by retail dealers of RVs and manufactured homes and other products which use our components, which would cause reduced production by our customers, and therefore reduced demand for our products. Retail dealers of RVs and manufactured homes and other products which use our components generally finance their purchases of inventory with financing known as floor-plan financing provided by lending institutions. Reduction in the availability of floor-plan financing has in the past caused, and would cause, many dealers to reduce inventories, which would result in reduced production, resulting in reduced demand for our products. 11 Moreover, dealers which are unable to obtain adequate financing could cease operations. Their remaining inventories would likely be sold at deep discounts. Such sales would cause a decline in orders for new inventory, which would reduce demand for our products. Conditions in the credit market could limit the ability of consumers to obtain retail financing for RVs and manufactured homes, resulting in reduced demand for our products. Restrictions on the availability of financing for RVs and manufactured homes has limited, and could again limit, the ability of consumers to purchase RVs and manufactured homes, which would result in reduced production of RVs and manufactured homes by our customers, and therefore reduced demand for our products. Loans used to finance the purchase of manufactured homes usually have shorter terms and higher interest rates, and are more difficult to obtain, than mortgages for site-built homes. Historically, lenders required higher down payment, higher credit scores and other criteria for these loans. Current lending criteria are higher than historical criteria, and many potential buyers of manufactured homes may not qualify. The availability, cost, and terms of these manufactured housing loans are also dependent on economic conditions, lending practices of financial institutions, government policies, and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. Reductions in the availability of financing for manufactured homes and increases in the costs of this financing have limited, and could continue to limit, the ability of consumers to purchase manufactured homes, resulting in reduced production of manufactured homes by our customers, and therefore reduced demand for our products. In addition, certain provisions of the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act, which regulate financial transactions, could make certain types of mortgages more difficult to obtain – in particular those historically used to finance the purchase of manufactured homes. Although new legislation has been introduced to address this matter, and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection is reviewing this matter, there can be no assurance of the outcome. Excess inventories at dealers and manufacturers can cause a decline in the demand for our products. Dealers and manufacturers could accumulate excess unsold inventory. Existence of excess inventory has in the past caused, and would cause, a reduction in orders, which would cause a decline in demand for our products. High levels of repossessions of manufactured homes and RVs could cause manufacturers to reduce production of new manufactured homes and RVs, resulting in reduced demand for our products. Repossessed manufactured homes and RVs are resold by lenders, often at substantially reduced prices, which reduces the demand for new manufactured homes and RVs. Economic conditions in the past have resulted, and could again result, in loan defaults and cause high levels of repossessions, which would cause manufacturers to reduce production of new manufactured homes and RVs, resulting in reduced demand for our products. Gasoline shortages, or high prices for gasoline, could lead to reduced demand for our products. Travel trailer and fifth-wheel RVs, components for which represented approximately 81 percent of our RV Segment net sales in 2013, are usually towed by light trucks or SUVs. Generally, these vehicles use more fuel than automobiles, particularly while towing RVs. High prices for gasoline, or anticipation of potential fuel shortages, can affect consumer use and purchase of light trucks and SUVs, which would result in reduced demand for travel trailer and fifth-wheel RVs, and therefore reduced demand for our products. 12 The manufactured housing industry has experienced a significant long-term decline in shipments, which has led to reduced demand for our products. Our MH Segment, which accounted for 12 percent of consolidated net sales for 2013, operates in an industry which has experienced a decline in production of new homes compared to the peak of production in 1998. The downturn was caused, in part, by limited availability and high cost of financing for manufactured homes, and has been exacerbated by economic and political conditions. Moreover, during weak markets for conventional housing, retirees may not be able to sell their primary residence, or may be unwilling to sell at currently depressed prices, and purchase less expensive manufactured homes as they have done in the past. In addition, the availability of foreclosed site-built homes at reduced prices or changes in zoning regulations have impacted, and could again impact, the demand for manufactured homes, and therefore reduce demand for our products. Although industry-wide wholesale production of manufactured homes has improved in recent years, our annual results of operations could decline if manufactured housing industry conditions worsen. Company-specific Risk Factors Volatile raw material costs could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. The prices we pay for steel and aluminum, which represented approximately 50 percent and 15 percent of our raw material costs in 2013, respectively, and other key raw materials, have been volatile. Because competition and business conditions may limit the amount or timing of increases in raw material costs that can be passed through to our customers in the form of sales price increases, future increases in raw material costs could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Conversely, as raw material costs decline, we may not be able to maintain selling prices consistent with higher cost raw materials in our inventory, which could adversely affect our operating results. Inadequate supply of raw materials used to make our products could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. If raw materials or components that are used in manufacturing our products, particularly those which we import, become unavailable, or if the supply of these raw materials and components is interrupted, our manufacturing operations could be adversely affected. We currently import, or purchase from suppliers who import, approximately 20 percent of our raw materials and components. The loss of any customer accounting for more than 10 percent of our consolidated net sales could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. One customer of the RV Segment accounted for 31 percent, and another customer of both the RV Segment and the MH Segment accounted for 28 percent, of our consolidated net sales in 2013. The loss of either of these customers would have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Changes in consumer preferences relating to our products could cause reduced sales. Changes in consumer preferences, or our inability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences, for RVs or manufactured homes, or for the products we make for RVs and manufactured homes, could reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Competitive pressures could reduce demand for our products or impact our sales prices. Domestic and foreign competitors may lower prices on products which currently compete with our products, or develop product improvements, which could reduce demand for our products or cause us to reduce prices for our products. In addition, the manufacture by our customers themselves of products supplied by us could reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 13 Increases in demand could result in difficulty obtaining additional skilled labor, and available capacity may initially not be utilized efficiently. In certain geographic regions in which we have manufacturing facilities we have experienced, and could again experience, shortages of qualified employees. If demand continues to increase, we may not be able to increase production to timely satisfy demand, and may initially incur higher labor and production costs, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. We may incur unexpected expenses, or face unanticipated delays, in connection with investments we make in our business, which could adversely impact our results. It may take longer than initially anticipated for us to realize expected results from investments we have made in research and development or acquired businesses, as well as initiatives we have implemented to increase capacity and improve production efficiencies, automation, customer service and other aspects of our business, or we may incur unexpected expense in connection with these matters. These results would have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We have recently entered new markets in order to enhance our growth potential. Uncertainties with respect to these new markets could impact our operating results. We are a leading supplier of components for RVs and manufactured housing, and currently have a significant share of the market for certain of our products, which limits our ability to expand our market share for those products. We have made investments in order to expand the sale of our products in the RV and manufactured housing aftermarket, and in adjacent industries beyond RVs and manufactured housing. We are also exploring opportunities to increase export sales of our products to international markets. Lack of demand for our products in these markets or competitive pressures requiring us to lower prices for our products would adversely impact our business in these markets and our results of operations. If acquired businesses are not successfully integrated into our operations, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted. We have engaged, and may continue to engage, in acquisitions, and may participate in joint ventures and other business transactions that involve potential risks, including failure to successfully integrate and realize the expected benefits of such transactions, assumption of liabilities of the acquired businesses, and possible culture conflicts. Integrating acquired operations is a significant challenge and there is no assurance that we will be able to manage the integrations successfully. If we are unable to efficiently integrate these businesses into our existing operations, the attention of our management could be diverted from our existing operations, which could impair our ability to execute our business plans. Failure to successfully integrate acquired operations or to realize the expected benefits of such acquisitions may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The loss of any of our key operating management could reduce our ability to execute our business strategy and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are dependent to a significant extent upon the efforts of our key operating management. The loss of the services of one or more of our key operating management could impair our ability to execute our business strategy, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Our business is subject to governmental and environmental regulations, and increased costs of compliance, failure in our compliance efforts or events beyond our control could result in damages, expenses or liabilities that could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Our operations are subject to various governmental and environmental regulations, and the failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines or potential civil or criminal liability. We believe that our operations and facilities have been and are being operated in compliance, in all material respects, with such laws and regulations. The operation of our manufacturing facilities entails risks, however, and there can be no assurance that we will not incur material costs or liabilities. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required in order to comply with evolving healthcare, environmental, health and safety laws, regulations or other pertinent requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future by governmental authorities. Compliance with conflict mineral disclosure requirements will create additional compliance cost and may create reputational challenges. In August 2012, the SEC adopted new rules pursuant to Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act setting forth new disclosure requirements concerning the use or potential use of certain minerals, deemed conflict minerals (tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten), that are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. These new requirements will necessitate due diligence efforts on our part to assess whether such minerals are used in our products in order to make the relevant required disclosures beginning in May 2014. There will be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. The implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering conflict-free minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict minerals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. We may also face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we may implement. If we expand our business internationally, we will be subject to new operational and financial risks. During the third quarter of 2013, we hired a new Director of International Business Development, who will spend time in Australia, Europe and China, assessing the dynamics of the local marketplace, building relationships with manufacturers and helping us introduce our existing products and develop new products for those markets. Over the past several years, we have been gradually growing sales overseas, primarily in Europe and Australia, and export sales represented approximately 1 percent of consolidated net sales in 2013. Business outside of the United States is subject to various risks, many of which are beyond our control, including: changes in tariffs, trade restrictions, trade agreements, and taxations; difficulties in managing or overseeing foreign operations and agents; foreign currency fluctuations and limitations on the repatriation of funds because of foreign exchange controls; different liability standards; and intellectual property laws of countries which do not protect our rights in our intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The occurrence or consequences of any of these factors may have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition, as well as impact our ability to operate in international markets. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 15 