Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Industry Risk Factors Economic and business conditions beyond our control have had a significant adverse impact on our earnings, and these conditions may continue. Our net sales in 2008 fell 24 percent compared to 2007, and net income for 2008 declined 71 percent compared to 2007, primarily as a result of the 29 percent decline in industry-wide wholesale shipments of travel trailers and fifth wheel RVs in 2008, as well as a 14 percent decline in industry-wide wholesale production of manufactured homes. This decline in sales accelerated during the latter part of 2008, and is continuing in 2009. On February 27, 2009, the RVIA published its latest forecast of industry production for 2009, which projects a 43 percent decline in the production of travel trailers and fifth wheel RVs as compared to 2008. We attribute these declines to a combination of factors, including the weak economy and resulting recession, tight credit, low consumer confidence, and the deterioration in the real estate and mortgage markets,. As a result, it appears that consumers are reluctant to make purchases of discretionary “big-ticket” items such as RVs and manufactured homes. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. These factors have caused a severe decline in the demand and production of RVs and manufactured homes, which has reduced the demand for our products, and therefore significantly reduced our sales during 2008. Our annual results of operations will likely decline if these conditions persist unabated. Reductions in the availability of wholesale financing limits the inventories carried by retail dealers of RVs and manufactured homes, which causes reduced production of RVs and manufactured homes and reduced demand for our products. Retailer dealers of RVs and manufactured homes generally finance their purchases of inventory with financing provided by lending institutions, often called floor-plan financing. Reduction in the availability of wholesale financing has prevented many retailers from carrying adequate inventories of RVs and manufactured homes, which has caused reduced production of RVs and manufactured homes, resulting in reduced demand for our products. Moreover, dealers which are unable to obtain adequate financing could cease operations. Their remaining inventories would likely be sold at deep discounts. Such sales would cause a decline in orders for new inventory, which would reduce demand for our products. 8 The recession and conditions in the credit market have limited, and could continue to limit, the ability of consumers to obtain financing for RVs and manufactured homes, resulting in reduced demand for our products. There have been significant changes in the lending practices of financial institutions, and many lenders have severely restricted loan availability. Limitations on the availability of financing for RVs and manufactured homes limit the ability of consumers to purchase RVs and manufactured homes, resulting in reduced production of RVs and manufactured homes, and reduced demand for our products. Limited availability of financing for manufactured homes on leased land and higher costs of this financing limits the ability of consumers to purchase manufactured homes, which would result in reduced demand for our products. Frequently, manufactured homes are purchased, and the land on which they are placed is leased. Loans used to finance the purchase of manufactured homes without land, also known as chattel loans, usually have shorter terms and higher interest rates, and are more difficult to obtain than mortgages for manufactured or site-built homes that are on owned land. Historically, lenders required higher credit scores and other criteria for these loans. Current lending criteria are even higher, and many potential buyers of manufactured homes may not qualify. The availability, cost, and terms of these chattel loans are also dependent on economic conditions, lending practices of financial institutions, governmental policies, and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. Reductions in the availability of financing for manufactured homes and increases in the costs of this financing have limited, and could continue to limit, the ability of consumers to purchase manufactured homes, resulting in reduced production of manufactured homes and reduced demand for our products. Excess inventories by retailers and manufacturers has caused a decline in the demand for our products. As a result of the severe decline in sales of RVs and manufactured homes, retailers and manufacturers of RVs and manufactured homes may have excess unsold inventory. Existence of excess inventory causes a reduction in orders for new RVs and manufactured homes. Accordingly, in 2008 manufacturers of RVs and manufactured homes reduced production, which caused a decline in demand for our products. If these conditions persist, our sales may continue to decline. High levels of repossessions of manufactured homes and RVs could cause manufacturers to reduce production of new manufactured homes and RVs, resulting in reduced demand for our products. Repossessed homes are resold by lenders, often at substantially reduced prices, which reduces the demand for new manufactured homes. Currently prevailing economic conditions could result in loan defaults and cause high levels of repossessions, which would cause manufacturers to reduce production of new manufactured homes, resulting in reduced demand for our products. In addition, currently prevailing economic conditions could result in defaults of loans used to purchase RVs, resulting in repossessions. Repossessed RVs are resold by lenders, often at substantially reduced prices. High levels of repossessed RVs would cause manufacturers to reduce production of new RVs resulting in reduced demand for our products. Gasoline shortages, or high prices for gasoline, could lead to reduced demand for our products. Fifth-wheel RVs and travel trailers, components for which represent 90 percent of our RV Segment sales, are usually towed by SUVs or light trucks. Generally, these vehicles use more fuel than automobiles, particularly while towing RVs. High prices for gasoline, or anticipation of potential fuel shortages, can affect consumer use and purchase of SUVs and light trucks which would result in reduced demand for fifth-wheel RVs and travel trailers, and therefore reduced demand for our products. 9 The manufactured housing industry has been experiencing a significant decline in shipments. Our MH Segment, which accounted for 28 percent of consolidated net sales for 2008, operates in an industry which has been experiencing a decline in production of new homes since 1998. Initially, the downturn was caused, in part, by limited availability of financing, but has been exacerbated by current economic conditions. Moreover, because of the weak market for conventional housing, retirees may not be able to sell their primary residences, or may be unwilling to sell at currently depressed prices, and purchase less expensive manufactured homes. In addition, the availability of foreclosed site-built homes at reduced prices could impact the demand for manufactured homes. If these conditions persist, it is not likely that the manufactured housing industry will improve in the short-term, and certain of our customers could experience financial difficulties. These factors could result in reduced demand for products from our MH Segment, as well as difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. Changes in zoning regulations for manufactured homes could lead to reduced demand for our products. Manufactured housing communities and individual home placements are subject to local zoning regulations. In the past, there has been resistance by local property owners and zoning officials to zoning ordinances allowing the location of manufactured homes in certain areas comprised of conventional residences. Continued resistance to these zoning ordinances could have an adverse impact on sales and production of manufactured homes, which would reduce demand for our products. Company-specific Risk Factors Changes in executive management have been implemented which could affect our operating results. In November 2008, in accordance with our management succession plan, Fredric M. Zinn, Executive Vice President from 2001 to 2008, Chief Financial Officer from 1984 to 2008, and President and a Director since May 2008, was, in addition to President, appointed Chief Executive Officer. This appointment became effective January 1, 2009. David L. Webster retired as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Kinro, effective January 1, 2009 after more than 30 years with Kinro. Jason D. Lippert has assumed responsibility for the operations of Kinro, and will also continue as Chairman, President and CEO of Lippert. In May 2008, Joseph S. Giordano III, formerly Corporate Controller and Treasurer of the Company, was promoted to Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, and Christopher L. Smith, formerly Assistant Controller, was promoted to Corporate Controller. Although we anticipate that these management transitions will be successful, there can be no assurance at this time. Volatile raw material costs could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. The prices we pay for steel, which represents about 55 percent of our raw material costs, and other key raw materials, have been volatile and have increased significantly since 2004. The impact of higher raw materials costs historically has been substantially offset by sales price increases to our customers. However, there can be no assurance that such price increases can be continued during the current economic downturn and the decline in the RV and manufactured housing industries. Because competition and business conditions may limit the amount or timing of increases in raw material costs that can be passed through to customers in the form of price increases, future increases in raw material costs would adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Conversely, as raw material costs decline, we may not be able to maintain selling prices consistent with higher cost raw materials in our inventory, which would adversely affect our operating results 10 Inadequate supply of raw materials used to make our products could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. If raw materials or components that are used in manufacturing our products, particularly those which we import, become unavailable, or if the supply of these raw materials and components is interrupted, our manufacturing operations could be adversely affected. Increases in labor rates or reduced availability of labor could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Shortages of qualified eligible employees and other factors could result in increased labor costs. Because the current economic downturn and decline in the RV and manufactured housing industries, as well as competition, may limit the amount of labor increases that can be passed through to customers in the form of price increases, increased labor costs could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. We are involved in certain litigation, which, if decided adversely to us, could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. A case is pending against Kinro, purporting to be a class action, in which it is alleged that certain bathtubs manufactured by Kinro for use in manufactured homes fail to comply with certain safety standards relating to flame spread. Kinro denies the allegations, is vigorously defending against the claims, and based on extensive investigation, believes that the bathtubs are in compliance with applicable regulations. Further detail regarding the litigation is provided in this Report in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” The loss of any customer accounting for more than 10 percent of our consolidated sales could have material adverse impact on our operating results. One customer of the RV Segment accounted for 21 percent, and another customer of both the RV Segment and the MH Segment accounted for 22 percent, of the our consolidated net sales in 2008. The loss of either of these customers could have a material adverse impact on our operating results; however, because we sell a variety of products to these customers in several geographic regions, we believe it is unlikely that we would lose the entire business of either of these customers. The financial condition of several of our significant customers could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Financial difficulties experienced by certain of our significant customers as a result of the sharp decline in sales of RVs and manufactured homes could result in reduced demand for our products, as well as losses due to the inability to collect accounts receivable. Competitive pressures could reduce demand for our products. Domestic and foreign competitors may lower prices on products which currently compete with our products, or develop product improvements, which could reduce demand for our products. Our operating results could continue to decline in a prolonged recession which would affect our liquidity. If the economic conditions that prevailed during the later part of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 continue or worsen, production of RVs and manufactured homes will likely decline even further, resulting in reduced demand for our products. A further decline in our operating results could affect our liquidity. However, we have low debt levels and we believe that our cash flow, as well as our credit line and “shelf-loan” facilities, provide adequate sources of liquidity, even though availability of borrowings under these facilities could be limited by our operating results. 11 Additional non-cash charges for impairment to goodwill and other intangible assets may be required. The declines in the industries to which we sell our products have been severe, and demand for our products has declined. Continuation of the downturn in these industries could result in additional non-cash impairment charges for goodwill and other intangible assets. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. Item 