Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Industry Risk Factors Limited availability of financing for manufactured homes on leased land and higher costs of this financing could continue to limit the ability of consumers to purchase manufactured homes, resulting in reduced demand for our products. Frequently, manufactured homes are purchased, and the land on which they are placed is leased. Loans used to finance the purchase of manufactured homes without land, also known as chattel loans, usually have shorter terms and higher interest rates, and may be more difficult to obtain than mortgages for manufactured or site-built homes that are on owned land. Lenders have been requiring high credit scores and other criteria for these loans, and many potential buyers of manufactured homes may not qualify. The availability, cost, and terms of these chattel loans are also dependent on economic conditions, lending practices of financial institutions, governmental policies, and other factors that are beyond our control. Reductions in the availability of financing for manufactured homes and increases in the costs of this financing have limited, and could continue to limit, the ability of consumers to purchase manufactured homes, resulting in reduced demand for our products. The recent subprime mortgage crisis could further limit the ability of consumers to obtain financing for manufactured homes and RVs, resulting in reduced demand for our products. The subprime mortgage crisis has resulted in significant changes in the lending practices of financial institutions, and some lenders have reduced loan availability. Reductions in the availability of financing for manufactured homes and RVs as a result of the subprime mortgage crisis could limit the ability of consumers to purchase manufactured homes and RVs, resulting in reduced demand for our products. Reductions in the availability of wholesale financing may prevent retailers from carrying an adequate inventory of RVs or manufactured homes, which could reduce demand for our products. Retailers of RVs and manufactured homes generally finance their purchases of inventory with financing provided by lending institutions, often called floor plan financing. Reductions in the availability of wholesale financing may prevent retailers from carrying an adequate inventory of RVs or manufactured homes, which could reduce demand for our products. High levels of repossessions of manufactured homes could cause manufacturers to reduce production of new manufactured homes, resulting in reduced demand for our products. During the 1990s, lower credit standards by lenders and prevailing economic conditions caused an increase in the number of manufactured homes subsequently repossessed by lenders. Repossessed homes are resold by lenders, often at substantially reduced prices, which reduces the demand for new manufactured homes. Similar conditions in the future could cause high levels of repossessions which could cause manufacturers to reduce production of new manufactured homes, resulting in reduced demand for our products. Changes in zoning regulations for manufactured homes could lead to reduced demand for our products. Manufactured housing communities and individual home placements are subject to local zoning regulations. In the past, there has been resistance by local property owners and zoning officials to zoning ordinances allowing the location of manufactured homes in certain areas comprised of conventional residences. Continued resistance to these zoning ordinances could have an adverse impact on sales of manufactured homes, which could reduce demand for our products. 4 Gasoline shortages, or high prices for gasoline, could lead to reduced demand for our products. High prices for gasoline, fuel shortages, or anticipation of potential fuel shortages, could adversely affect consumer demand for RVs, which could reduce demand for our products. Excess inventories by retailers and manufacturers could cause a decline in the demand for our products. Retailers and manufacturers of RVs and manufactured homes may carry excess inventory, as they periodically have in the past. Sales of excess inventory may cause the manufacturers of RVs and manufactured homes to reduce production of new vehicles and homes, which could cause a decline in demand for our products. The manufactured housing industry has been experiencing a significant decline in shipments. Our MH Segment, which accounted for 26 percent of consolidated net sales for 2007, operates in an industry which has been experiencing a decline in production of new homes since 1999. The downturn has been caused in part by limited availability of financing for manufactured homes. Further, for the last several years, many traditional buyers of manufactured homes were able to purchase conventional homes because subprime mortgages were available at unrealistic terms. Moreover, because of the current weak market for conventional housing, retirees may not be able to sell their primary residence, or may be unwilling to sell at currently depressed prices, and purchase a less expensive manufactured home. If these conditions persist, it is not likely that the manufactured housing industry will improve in the short-term, and certain of our customers could experience financial difficulties. These factors could result in reduced demand for products from our MH Segment, as well as difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. Business cycles may cause substantial fluctuations in our operating results. Both the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries are impacted by business cycles and this may cause substantial fluctuations in our operating results. Business cycles may depend upon general economic conditions, interest rates, consumer confidence, demographic changes, and other factors beyond our control. Economic conditions and consumer confidence may affect our operating results. National and regional economic conditions and consumer confidence may affect the retail sale of recreational vehicles and manufactured homes Adverse weather conditions could reduce demand for our products. Adverse weather conditions could temporarily interfere with the ability of our manufactured housing customers to transport manufactured homes to dealers via roadway, which could impact retail sales of manufactured homes. This could temporarily cause manufacturers to reduce production of new manufactured homes, resulting in reduced demand for our products during certain months. Company-specific Risk Factors Increases in raw material costs could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. The prices the Company pays for steel, which represents about 50 percent of the Company’s raw material costs, and other key raw materials, have been volatile and have increased significantly since the beginning of 2004. In addition, the Company has received notice of cost increases of 10 percent or more from its suppliers of certain key raw materials which are scheduled to go into effect during the first quarter of 2008. The impact of higher raw materials costs historically has been substantially offset by surcharges and sales price increases to our customers, but there can be no assurance that such surcharges and price increases can be continued. Because competition may limit the amount of increases in raw material costs that can be passed through to customers in the form of price increases, increases in raw material costs could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. 5 Inadequate supply of imported raw materials used to make our products could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. We import approximately 20 percent of raw materials and components that we use in manufacturing our products. If these imported raw materials or components become unavailable, or if the supply of these raw materials and components is interrupted, our manufacturing operations could be adversely affected. Increases in labor rates or reduced availability of labor could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Certain geographic regions in which we have manufacturing facilities have very low unemployment rates. This and other factors could result in shortages of qualified employees and increased labor costs. Because competition may limit the amount of labor increases that can be passed through to customers in the form of price increases, increased labor costs could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. We are involved in certain litigation, which if decided adversely to us could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. The litigation is described in this Report in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings”. The loss of any customer accounting for more than 10 percent of our consolidated sales could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. One customer of the RV Segment accounted for 23 percent, and another customer of both the RV Segment and the MH Segment accounted for 20 percent, of the Company’s consolidated net sales in 2007. The loss of either of these customers could have a material adverse impact on our operating results; however, because we sell a variety of products to these customers in several geographic regions, we believe it is unlikely that we would lose the entire business of either of these customers. Competitive pressures could reduce demand for our products. Domestic and foreign competitors may lower prices or develop product improvements which could reduce demand for our products. The financial condition of several of our significant customers could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Financial difficulties of our significant customers could result in reduced demand for our products, as well as losses due to the inability to collect accounts receivable. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. RV Segment Through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, the Company manufactures and markets a number of components used in the production of RVs, primarily travel trailers and fifth wheels, including aluminum windows, a variety of doors, steel chassis, steel chassis parts, slide-out mechanisms and related power units, and electric stabilizer jacks. During the last few years, the Company introduced several products for the RV and specialty trailer markets, including products for the motorhome market. These products include slide-out mechanisms and leveling devices for motorhomes, axles for towable RVs and specialty trailers, entry steps, and suspension systems for towable RVs, and bed lifts, ramp doors, thermoformed bath and kitchen products and exterior parts for both towable RVs and motorhomes. The Company estimates that the market potential of these products exceeds $700 million, and in the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company’s annualized sales of these products were approximately $120 million. 6 In 2007, the RV Segment represented approximately 74 percent of the Company's consolidated sales, and 81 percent of consolidated segment operating profit. More than 90 percent of the Company’s RV segment sales are of products used in travel trailers and fifth wheel RVs. The balance represents sales of components for motorhomes, and sales of specialty trailers for hauling boats, personal watercraft, snowmobiles and equipment, as well as axles for specialty trailers. Raw materials used by the Company's RV Segment, consisting primarily of fabricated steel (coil, sheet, tube and I-beam), extruded aluminum, glass, and various adhesive and insulating components, are available from a number of sources. Operations of the Company's RV Segment consist primarily of fabricating, welding, painting and assembling components into finished products, and tempering glass. The Company's RV Segment operations are conducted at 22 manufacturing and warehouse facilities throughout the United States, strategically located in proximity to the customers they serve. Of these facilities, 9 also conduct operations in the Company's MH Segment. See Item 2. "Properties." The Company's RV Segment products are sold primarily to major manufacturers of RVs such as Thor Industries, Forest River (a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.), Fleetwood Enterprises, and Monaco Coach. The Company's RV Segment operations compete on the basis of price, customer service, product quality, and reliability. Although definitive information is not readily available, the Company believes that (i) its market share for most of its towable recreational vehicle window and door products exceeds 70 percent; (ii) the two leading suppliers of RV chassis and chassis parts are the Company and Dexter, a division of Tomkins plc, and the Company's market share for RV chassis and chassis parts is approximately 60 percent; (iii) its market share for slide-out mechanisms for travel trailers and fifth wheel RV’s currently exceeds 50 percent, and exceeds 20 percent for motorhomes; and (iv) the leading suppliers of axles for towable RVs are the Company, Al-Ko Kober and Dexter, and the Company’s market share for axles for towable RVs is approximately 50 percent. See Item 1. “Business – Intellectual Property” for a description of the patent license agreement applicable to the Company’s slide-out mechanisms. The Company’s operation as a manufacturer of specialty trailers for hauling boats, personal watercraft, snowmobiles and equipment competes with several other manufacturers of specialty trailers. Detailed narrative information about the results of operations of the RV Segment is included in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” MH Segment The Company’s subsidiaries in the MH Segment manufacture and market a number of components for manufactured homes and, to a lesser extent, modular housing and office units, including vinyl and aluminum windows and screens, steel chassis, steel chassis parts, axles and thermoformed bath and kitchen products. In 2007, the MH Segment represented approximately 26 percent of the Company's consolidated sales, and 19 percent of consolidated segment operating profit. Certain of the Company’s MH Segment customers manufacture both manufactured homes and modular homes, and certain of the products manufactured by the Company are suitable for both manufactured homes and modular homes. As a result, the Company is not always able to determine in which type of home its products are installed. The MH Segment also supplies related products to other industries, representing approximately 5 percent of sales of this segment. 7 Raw materials used by the Company's MH Segment, consisting of fabricated steel (coil, sheet, and I-beam), extruded aluminum and vinyl, glass, ABS resin, and various adhesive and insulating components, are available from a number of sources. Operations of the Company's MH Segment consist primarily of fabricating, welding, thermoforming, painting and assembling components into finished products. The Company's MH Segment operations are conducted at 20 manufacturing and warehouse facilities throughout the United States, strategically located in proximity to the customers they serve. Of these facilities, 9 also conduct operations in the Company's RV Segment. See Item 2. "Properties." The Company's manufactured housing products are sold primarily to major builders of manufactured homes such as Clayton Homes (a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.), Champion Enterprises, Skyline Corporation, and Fleetwood Enterprises. The Company's MH Segment competes on the basis of price, customer service, product quality, and reliability. Although definitive information is not readily available, the Company believes that (i) the two leading suppliers of windows for manufactured homes are the Company and Philips Industries, a subsidiary of Tomkins, plc, and the Company's market share for windows and screens is more than 70 percent; (ii) the Company's MH chassis and chassis parts operations compete with several other manufacturers of chassis and chassis parts, as well as with builders of manufactured homes, most of which produce their own chassis and chassis parts, and the Company’s market share for chassis and chassis parts for manufactured homes is approximately 30 percent; and (iii) the Company’s thermoformed bath unit operation competes with three other manufacturers of bath units and the Company’s market share for bath products in the product lines the Company supplies is approximately 35 percent. Detailed narrative information about the results of operations of the MH Segment is included in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Sales and Manufacturing Other than the activities of its sales personnel and maintenance of customer relationships through price, quality of its products, service, and customer satisfaction, the Company does not engage in significant marketing efforts nor incur significant marketing or advertising expenditures. The Company has several supply agreements or other formal relationships with certain of its customers that provide for prices of various products to be fixed for periods generally not in excess of one year; however, in certain cases the Company has the right to renegotiate the prices on sixty-days’ notice. Both the RV Segment and the MH Segment typically ship products on average within one to two weeks of receipt of orders from their customers and, as a result, neither segment has any significant backlog. The Company’s facilities which produced RV products in 2007 operated at an average of approximately 70% percent or more of their practical one-shift capacity. Overall, most of the Company’s facilities which produce MH products operated at 50 percent or less of their practical one-shift capacity and, therefore, have the ability to more than double production should the manufactured housing industry demand grow. The Company has 33 facilities, and for most products has the ability to fill demand in excess of capacity at individual facilities by shifting production to other facilities, but the Company would incur additional freight costs. Capital expenditures for 2007 were $9 million compared to an average of $18 million in the prior five years. The need to expand capacity in certain product areas, as well as the potential reallocation of existing resources, is monitored regularly by management. The Company’s operations are somewhat seasonal, as sales are slower in the first and fourth quarters, consistent with the industries which the Company supplies. 8 Intellectual Property The Company manufactures and sells certain of its slide-out mechanisms pursuant to a non-exclusive license granted by the exclusive licensee and owner of three patents until October 24, 2017, the date of the last to expire of the patents. Pursuant to the license, remaining royalties are payable by the Company on an annual basis until expiration of the patents at the rate of one percent of sales of certain slide-out mechanisms produced by the Company. For 2007, the Company paid royalties of approximately $400,000 on sales of applicable slide-out systems. Pursuant to the license, royalties for the remaining period through the expiration of the patents will not exceed an aggregate of $4.6 million. The Company holds several United States patents that relate to various products sold by the Company. While the Company believes that its patents are valuable and vigorously protects its patents when appropriate, none of the individual patents is essential to the Company or its business segments. From time to time the Company has received notices that it may be infringing certain patent rights of others, and the Company has given notices to others that they may be infringing certain patent rights of the Company. Although the Company has asserted patent infringement claims against others, no material litigation is currently pending as a result of these claims. Regulatory Matters Windows produced by the Company for manufactured homes must comply with performance and construction regulations promulgated by the United States Housing and Urban Development Authority ("HUD") and by the American Architectural Manufacturers Association relating to air and water infiltration, structural integrity, thermal performance, emergency exit conformance, and hurricane resistance. Certain of the Company’s products must also comply with the International Code Council standards such as the IRC (International Residential Code), the IBC (International Building Code), and the IECC (International Energy Conservation Code) as well as other state and local building codes. Thermoformed bath products manufactured by the Company for manufactured homes must comply with performance and construction regulations promulgated by HUD Windows and doors produced by the Company for the RV industry are regulated by The United States Department of Transportation Federal Highway Administration ("DOT") and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration division of the DOT governing safety glass performance, egressability, door hinge and lock systems, egress window retention hardware, and baggage door ventilation. Manufactured homes are built on steel chassis which are fitted with axles and tires sufficient in number to support the weight of the home, and are transported by producers to dealers via roadway. The Company also sells new tires and axles. New tires distributed by the Company are subject to regulations promulgated by DOT and by HUD relating to weight tolerance, maximum speed, size, and components. Trailers produced by the Company for hauling boats, personal watercraft, snowmobiles and equipment must comply with regulations promulgated by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration of the DOT and Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards relating to lighting, breaking, wheels, tires and other vehicle systems. Rules promulgated under the Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability and Documentation Act (the “Tread Act”) require manufacturers of motor vehicles and certain motor vehicle related equipment to regularly make reports and submit documents and certain historical data to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to enhance motor vehicle safety, and to respond to requests for information relating to specific complaints or incidents. The Company's operations are also subject to certain Federal, state and local regulatory requirements relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals used during their manufacturing processes. 9 The Company believes that it is currently operating in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and has made reports and submitted information as required. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” The Company does not believe that the expense of compliance with these laws and regulations, as currently in effect, will have a material effect on the Company's capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Employees The number of persons employed full-time by the Company and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2007 was 3,499. Of the total, 2,955 were in manufacturing and product research and development, 109 in transportation, 28 in sales, 117 in customer support and servicing and 290 in administration. None of the employees of the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to collective bargaining agreements. The Company and its subsidiaries believe that relations with its employees are good. Item 