ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Popular, like other financial companies, faces a number of risks inherent to our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and capital position. These risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. The risks described in this report are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known by us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND OUR INDUSTRY Weakness in the economy and in the real estate market in the geographic footprint of Popular has adversely impacted and may continue to adversely impact Popular. A significant portion of our financial activities and credit exposure is concentrated in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico (the “Island”) and the Island’s economy continues to deteriorate. Since 2006, the Puerto Rico economy has been experiencing recessionary conditions. Based on information published by the Puerto Rico Planning Board, the Puerto Rico real gross national product decreased 3.7% during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico government is currently addressing a fiscal deficit which has been estimated at approximately $3.2 billion or over 30% of its annual budget. It is implementing a multi-year budget plan for reducing the deficit, as its access to the municipal bond market and its credit ratings depend, in part, on achieving a balanced budget. Some of the measures implemented by the government include reducing expenses, including public-sector employment through employee layoffs. Since the government is an important source of employment on the Island, these measures could have the effect of intensifying the current recessionary cycle. The Puerto Rico Labor Department reported an unemployment rate of 14.3% for December 2009, compared with an unemployment rate of 13.1% for December 2008. This decline in the Island’s economy has resulted in, among other things, a downturn in our loan originations; an increase in the level of our non-performing assets, loan loss provisions and charge-offs, particularly in our construction and commercial loan portfolios; an increase in the rate of foreclosure loss on mortgage loans; and a reduction in the value of our loans and loan servicing portfolio, all of which have adversely affected our profitability. If the decline in economic activity continues, there could be further adverse effects on our profitability. The economy of Puerto Rico is very sensitive to the price of oil in the global market. The Island does not have significant mass transit available to the public and most of its electricity is powered by oil, making it highly sensitive to fluctuations in oil prices. A substantial increase in its price could impact adversely the economy of Puerto Rico by reducing disposable income and increasing the operating costs of most businesses and government. Consumer spending is particularly sensitive to wide fluctuations in oil prices. 18 Table of Contents The level of real estate prices in Puerto Rico had been more stable than in other U.S. markets, but the current economic environment has accelerated the devaluation of properties and has increased portfolio delinquency when compared with previous periods. Additional economic weakness in Puerto Rico and the U.S. mainland could further pressure residential property values, loan delinquencies, foreclosures and the cost of repossessing and disposing of real estate collateral. The housing market has suffered a substantial slowdown in sales activity in recent quarters, as reflected in the low absorption rates of projects financed in our construction loan portfolio. The current state of the economy and uncertainty in the private and public sectors has had an adverse effect on the credit quality of our loan portfolios. The persistent economic slowdown is expected to cause those adverse effects to continue, as delinquency rates may increase in the short-term, until sustainable growth resumes. Also, a potential reduction in consumer spending may also impact growth in our other interest and non-interest revenues. However, in 2010, the Puerto Rico economy should benefit from the disbursement of approximately $2.5 billion from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) and $280.3 million from the Commonwealth's local stimulus package. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the financial industry and our results of operations and financial condition. Market instability and lack of investor confidence have led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce or cease providing funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This has led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity in general. The resulting economic pressures on consumers and uncertainty about the financial markets have adversely affected our industry and our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not expect a material improvement in the financial environment in the near future. A worsening of these difficult conditions would exacerbate the economic challenges facing us and others in the financial industry. In particular, we face the following risks in connection with these events: • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, including as a result of the EESA. Compliance with these regulations may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behavior. • The processes we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The reliability of these processes might be compromised if these variables are no longer capable of accurate estimation. • Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. • The FDIC increased the assessments that we have to pay on our insured deposits during 2009 because market developments have led to a substantial increase in bank failures and an increase in FDIC loss reserves, which in turn has led to a depletion of the FDIC insurance fund reserves. We may be required to pay in the future significantly higher FDIC assessments on our deposits if market conditions do not improve or continue to deteriorate. • We may suffer higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or other regulatory action that either (i) reduces the amount that our borrowers are required to pay us, or (ii) limits our ability to foreclose on properties or collateral or makes foreclosures less economically viable. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future to address market conditions in the financial industry may significantly affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or stock price. Current economic conditions, particularly in the financial markets, have resulted in government regulatory agencies and political bodies placing increased focus and scrutiny on the financial services industry. The U.S. Government has intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding to what has been commonly referred to as the financial crisis. Several funding and capital programs by the Federal Reserve Board and the U.S. Treasury were launched in 2008 and 2009, with the objective of enhancing financial institutions’ ability to raise liquidity. It is expected that these programs may have the effect of increasing the degree or nature of regulatory supervision to which we are subjected. Furthermore, recent economic and market events have led to numerous proposals for legislative and regulatory reform that could substantially intensify the regulation of the financial services industry and that may significantly impact us. The proposals include the following: • Establishing a federal consumer financial protection agency that would have, among other things, broad authority to regulate, and take enforcement actions against, providers of credit, savings, payment and other consumer financial products and services. • Requiring heightened scrutiny and stricter regulation of any financial institution whose combination of size, leverage and interconnectedness could pose a threat to financial stability if it failed, restricting the activities of such institutions, and allowing regulators to dismantle large or systemically important banks and financial institutions, even healthy ones, if they are considered a grave risk to the economy. 19 Table of Contents • Requiring large financial institutions to contribute to a fund that would be used to recover the cost of dismantling a bank or financial institution that is dismantled because it poses a grave risk to the economy. • Changing requirements for the securitization market, including requiring sponsors of securitizations to retain a material economic interest in the credit risk associated with the underlying securitization, as well as enhanced disclosure requirements for asset securitizations • Tightening controls on the ability of banking institutions to engage in transactions with affiliates. • Assessing financial institutions with over $50 billion in consolidated assets with a “financial crisis responsibility fee” assessed at approximately 15 basis points of total assets (less Tier 1 capital and less FDIC-assessed deposits). The fee as proposed would last for at least the next ten years and has been proposed for the purpose of recovering projected losses from the TARP. • Limiting the size and activities of financial institutions, including proposals to repeal portions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Amending regulatory capital standards, and increasing regulatory capital requirements, for banks and other financial institutions and establishing new formulaic liquidity requirements applicable to financial institutions, [including those proposals described above under “Regulation and Supervision—Capital Adequacy”]. • Establishing heightened standards for and increased scrutiny of compensation policies at financial institutions. Lawmakers and regulators in the United States and worldwide continue to consider these and a number of other wide-ranging and comprehensive proposals for altering the structure, regulation and competitive relationships of financial institutions. For example, separate comprehensive financial reform plans could, if enacted, further substantially increase regulation of the financial services industry and impose restrictions on the operations and general ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. Bills were introduced in both houses of Congress in the second half of 2009, and the U.S. House of Representatives passed a financial reform bill in December of 2009, but similar action has not been taken by the U.S. Senate. We cannot predict the substance final form, or impact effects on Popular, of these pending or future legislation, regulation or the application thereof. These and other potential regulation and scrutiny mayor proposed legislative and regulatory changes could significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, require us to increase our regulatory capital and, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations or earnings. The imposition of additional property tax payments in Puerto Rico may further deteriorate our commercial, consumer and mortgage loan portfolios. On March 9, 2009, the Governor of Puerto Rico signed into law the Special Act Declaring a State of Fiscal Emergency and Establishing an Integral Plan of Fiscal Stabilization to Save Puerto Rico’s Credit, Act No. 7. The Act imposes a series of temporary and permanent measures, including the imposition of a 0.591% special tax applicable to properties used for residential (excluding those exempt as detailed in the Act) and commercial purposes, and payable to the Puerto Rico Treasury Department. This temporary measure is effective for tax years that commenced after June 30, 2009 and before July 1, 2012. The imposition of this special property tax could adversely affect the disposable income of borrowers from the commercial, consumer and mortgage loan portfolios and may cause an increase in our delinquency and foreclosure rates. Financial results are constantly exposed to market risk. Market risk refers to the probability of variations in the net interest income or the market value of assets and liabilities due to interest rate volatility. Despite the varied nature of market risks, the primary source of this risk to us is the impact of changes in interest rates on net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the revenue generated on earning assets and the interest cost of funding those assets. Depending on the duration and repricing characteristics of the assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items, changes in interest rates could either increase or decrease the level of net interest income. For any given period, the pricing structure of the assets and liabilities is matched when an equal amount of such assets and liabilities mature or reprice in that period. Any mismatch of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities is known as a gap position. A positive gap denotes asset sensitivity, which means that an increase in interest rates could have a positive effect on net interest income, while a decrease in interest rates could have a negative effect on net interest income. As of December 31, 2009, we had a positive gap position. 20 Table of Contents The Federal Reserve Board lowered the federal funds target rate from 4.25% at the beginning of 2008 to between 0% and 0.25% at December 31, 2008. This was one of various measures implemented by the Federal Reserve Board to improve the flow of credit throughout the financial system. Given that the level of short-term rates is close to zero, a concern in the markets has been when may monetary policy be tightened again and the possible impact on the financial markets. The future outlook on interest rates and their impact on Popular’s interest income, interest expense and net interest income is uncertain. The federal funds target rate stayed between 0% to 0.25% throughout 2009. We usually run our net interest income simulations under interest rate scenarios in which the yield curve is assumed to rise and decline gradually by the same amount, usually 200 basis points. Given the fact that as of year-end 2009, some short-term rates were close to zero and some term interest rates were below 2.0%, management has decided to focus measuring the risk of net interest income in rising rate scenarios. The rising rate scenarios used in our market risk disclosure reflect gradual parallel changes of 200 and 400 basis points during the twelve-month period ending December 31, 2010. Projected net interest income under the 200 basis points rising rate scenario increases by $59.8 million while the 400 basis points simulation increases by $103.2 million. These scenarios were compared against our flat interest rates forecast. The market disruptions has led us to reduce substantially the use of unsecured short-term borrowings. They have been largely replaced with deposits and long-term secured borrowings, and to a lesser extent, long-term unsecured debt. Therefore, the cost of the liabilities of Popular does not respond as quickly to changes in the levels of interest rates. Our Asset Liability Management Committee (“ALCO”) committee regularly reviews our interest rate risk and initiates any action necessary to maintain our potential volatility within limits. The hedging transactions that we enter into may not be effective in managing the exposure to market risk, including interest rate risk. We use derivatives, to a limited extent, to manage part of the exposure to market risk caused by changes in interest rates or basis risk. The derivative instruments that we may utilize also have their own risks, which include: (1) basis risk, which is the risk of loss associated with variations in the spread between the asset yield and funding and/or hedge cost; (2) credit or default risk, which is the risk of insolvency or other inability of the counterparty to a particular transaction to perform its obligations there under; and (3) legal risk, which is the risk that Popular is unable to enforce certain terms of such instruments. All or any of such risks could expose Popular to losses. Higher market volatility in the capital markets could impact the performance of our hedging transactions. Most hedging activity is related to protecting the market value of mortgage loans that are segregated for future sale and derivatives positions to hedge the cost of liabilities issued or derivative positions with banking clients. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. There can be no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations or earnings. We have procedures in place to mitigate the impact of a default among our counterparties. We request collateral for most credit exposures with other financial institutions and monitor these on a regular basis. Nonetheless, market volatility could impact the valuation of collateral held by us and results in losses. Our ability to raise financing is dependent in part on market confidence. In times when market confidence is affected by events related to well-known financial institutions, risk aversion among participants increases substantially and makes it more difficult to borrow in the credit markets. Our credit ratings have been reduced substantially during the past year, and our senior unsecured ratings are now “non-investment grade” with the three major rating agencies. This may make it more difficult for Popular to borrow in the capital markets and at much higher cost. Prolonged economic weakness, a continuing decline in the real estate market in the U.S. mainland, and disruptions in the capital markets have harmed and could continue to harm the results of operations of Popular. The residential mortgage loan origination business has historically been cyclical, enjoying periods of strong growth and profitability followed by periods of shrinking volumes and industry-wide losses. “Bust” cycles in the housing sector affect our business by decreasing the volume of loans originated and increasing the level of credit losses related to our mortgage loans. 21 Table of Contents The housing market in the U.S. is undergoing a correction of historic proportions. After a period of several years of booming housing markets, fueled by liberal credit conditions and rapidly rising property values, since early 2007 the sector has been in the midst of a substantial dislocation. This dislocation has had a significant impact on some of our U.S.-based business segments and has affected our ongoing financial results and condition. The general level of property values in the U.S., as measured by several indices widely followed by the market, has declined significantly. These declines are the result of ongoing market adjustments that are aligning property values with income levels and home inventories. The supply of homes in the market increased substantially, and property value decreases were required to clear the overhang of excess inventory in the U.S. market. Recent indicators suggest that after a material price correction, the U.S. real estate market may be entering a period of relative stability. Nonetheless, further declines in property values could impact the credit quality of our U.S. mortgage loan portfolio because the value of the homes underlying the loans is a primary source of repayment in the event of foreclosure. In the event of foreclosure in a loan from this portfolio, the current market value of the underlying collateral could be insufficient to cover the loan amount owed. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses harms our ability to sell loans, the prices it receives for loans sold, and the values of our mortgage loans held-for-sale. In addition, any material decline in real estate values would weaken Popular’s collateral loan-to-value ratios and increase the possibility of loss if a borrower defaults. In such event, we will be subject to the risk of loss on such mortgage assets arising from borrower defaults. We maintain exposure in our U.S. loan portfolio to the housing sector. As of December 31, 2009, we had $4.6 billion in residential mortgage loans in portfolio, of which $1.5 billion was located in the continental U.S. Further housing value declines in the U.S. would impact the level of losses in this portfolio. Also, we have exposure to individuals in the form of home equity loans, home equity lines of credit or “HELOCs”, and second mortgages, which because of declining home values have become in effect unsecured consumer loans. As of December 31, 2009, these U.S. portfolios amounted to $870 million. These portfolios are sensitive to the economic cycle in the U.S., and a further deterioration of the economy and employment conditions in the mainland would affect the level of losses from this exposure. Popular operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations. Popular is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and Puerto Rico banking authorities. Any change in applicable federal or Puerto Rico laws or regulations could have a substantial impact on our operations. Additional laws and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect Popular’s powers, authority and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on Popular’s financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties, have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe and unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies. The exercise of this regulatory discretion and power may have a negative impact on Popular. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. We face substantial competition in originating loans and in attracting deposits. The competition in originating loans comes principally from other U.S., Puerto Rico and foreign banks, mortgage banking companies, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and other institutional lenders and purchasers of loans. In Puerto Rico, competition is primarily from other local depository institutions and from the local operations of several global foreign and domestic banks. As a group they compete in all segments of the market and present a formidable source of competition for Popular. Competition is particularly acute in the market for deposits, where pricing is very aggressive. In the U.S., competition is primarily from community banks operating in our footprint together with the national banking institutions. These include institutions with much more resources than we have and can exert substantial competitive pressure. Increased competition could require that we increase the rates offered on deposits or lower the rates charged on loans, which could adversely affect our profitability. The banking market in Puerto Rico experienced some consolidations on the past two decades, as a result of bank failures and voluntary intramarket transactions. Even though some institutions are no longer in existence as a result of the consolidation process, there remain six publicly-traded local banking institutions, as well as a non-public local banking institution, three foreign global banks and a major domestic institution competing in the Puerto Rico market. Some industry experts have commented that further consolidation in the Puerto Rico banking industry may be necessary or imminent. Although management may decide that our involvement in the consolidation of the Puerto Rico banking industry may be in our best interest, there can be no assurances that we could successfully complete a transaction, or if we did, that we could successfully integrate the operations of another banking institution into our own operations without incurring substantial disruptions to our business. 22 Table of Contents We may engage in FDIC-assisted transactions, which could present additional risks to our business. We may have opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. Although these transactions typically provide for FDIC assistance to an acquirer to mitigate certain risks, such as sharing exposure to loan losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution, we would still be subject to many of the same risks we would face in acquiring another bank in negotiated transactions, including risks associated with maintaining customer relationships and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. In addition, because these acquisitions are structured in a manner that would not allow us the time and access to information normally associated with preparing for and evaluating a negotiated acquisition, we may face additional risk in FDIC-assisted transactions. These risks include additional strain on management resources, management of problem loans, problems related to integration of personnel and operating systems and impact to our capital resources requiring us to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you, that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with FDIC-assisted transactions. Our inability to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, capital, liquidity and results from operations. We are subject to default risk in our loan portfolio. We are subject to the risk of loss from loan defaults and foreclosures with respect to the loans originated or acquired. We establish provisions for loan losses, which lead to reductions in the income from operations, in order to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level which is deemed appropriate by management based upon an assessment of the quality of the loan portfolio in accordance with established procedures and guidelines. This process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic and market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay the loans. There can be no assurance that management has accurately estimated the level of future loan losses or that Popular will not have to increase the provision for loan losses in the future as a result of future increases in non-performing loans or for other reasons beyond our control. Any such increases in our provisions for loan losses or any loan losses in excess of our provisions for loan losses would have an adverse effect on our future financial condition and result of operations. We will continue to evaluate our allowance for loan losses and may be required to increase such amounts, perhaps substantially. We may have more credit risk and higher credit losses due to our construction and commercial loans portfolios. We have a significant portfolio in construction and commercial loans, mostly secured by commercial and residential real estate properties. Due to their nature, these loans entail a higher credit risk than consumer and residential mortgage loans, since they are larger in size, may have less collateral coverage, concentrate more risk in a single borrower and are generally more sensitive to economic downturns. Rapidly changing collateral values, general economic conditions and numerous other factors continue to create volatility in the housing markets and have increased the possibility that additional losses may have to be recognized with respect to our current non-performing assets. Furthermore, given the current slowdown in the real estate market, the properties securing these loans may be difficult to dispose of, if foreclosed. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties, and inaccurate or incomplete information could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information provided to us by customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to a business, we may assume that the customer’s audited financial statements conform to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. We may also rely on the audit report covering those financial statements. Popular’s financial conditions and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we rely on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or are materially misleading. Rating downgrades on the Government of Puerto Rico’s debt obligations could affect the value of our loans to the Government and our portfolio of Puerto Rico Government securities. Even though Puerto Rico’s economy is closely integrated to that of the U.S. mainland and its government and many of its instrumentalities are investment grade-rated borrowers in the U.S. capital markets, the fiscal situation of the Government of Puerto Rico has led nationally recognized rating agencies to downgrade its debt obligations. As a result of the Central Government’s fiscal challenges in 2006, Moody’s and S&P then downgraded the rating of its obligations, maintaining them within investment-grade levels. Since then, actions by the Government have improved the credit outlook. As of December 31, 2007, S&P rated the Government’s general obligations at BBB-, while Moodys rated them at Baa3- both in the lowest notch of investment grade. In November 2007, Moody’s upgraded the outlook of the Commonwealth’s credit ratings to “stable” from “negative”, recognizing the progress that the Commonwealth has made in addressing the fiscal challenges it had faced in recent years. The Commonwealth is currently implementing a multi-year budget plan to address the deficit. 23 Table of Contents While Moody’s “Baa3” rating and S&P’s “BBB-minus” take into consideration Puerto Rico’s fiscal challenges — both ratings stand one notch above non-investment grade — other factors could trigger an outlook change, such as the inability to successfully complete the implementation of the multiyear fiscal plan to bring the Central Government’s budget back into balance, pursuant to Act No. 7 of the Commonwealth of P.R. Factors such as the government’s ability to implement meaningful steps to control operating expenditures and maintain the integrity of the tax base will be key determinants of future ratings stability. Also, the inability to agree on future fiscal year Commonwealth budgets could result in ratings pressure from the rating agencies. It is uncertain how the financial markets may react to any potential future ratings downgrade in Puerto Rico’s debt obligations. However, deterioration in the fiscal situation with possible negative ratings implications, could adversely affect the value of Puerto Rico’s Government obligations. At December 31, 2009, we had $1.1 billion of credit facilities granted to or guaranteed by the Puerto Rico Government and its political subdivisions, of which $215 million were uncommitted lines of credit. Of these total credit facilities granted, $994 million were outstanding at December 31, 2009. A substantial portion of our credit exposure to the Government of Puerto Rico is either collateralized loans or obligations that have a specific source of income or revenues identified for its repayment. Some of these obligations consist of senior and subordinated loans to public corporations that obtain revenues from rates charged for services or products, such as water and electric power utilities. Public corporations have varying degrees of independence from the Central Government and many receive appropriations or other payments from it. We also have loans to various municipalities for which the good faith, credit and unlimited taxing power of the applicable municipality has been pledged to their repayment. These municipalities are required by law to levy special property taxes in such amounts as shall be required for the payment of all of its general obligation bonds and loans. Another portion of these loans consists of special obligations of various municipalities that are payable from the basic real and personal property taxes collected within such municipalities. The good faith and credit obligations of the municipalities have a first lien on the basic property taxes. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding $263 million in Obligations of Puerto Rico, States and Political Subdivisions as part of our investment portfolio. Of that total, $258 million was exposed to the creditworthiness of the Puerto Rico Government and its municipalities. Of that portfolio, $55 million are in the form of Puerto Rico Commonwealth Appropriation Bonds, of which $45 million are rated Ba1, one notch below investment grade, by Moody’s, while S&P rates them as investment grade. As of December 31, 2009, the Puerto Rico Commonwealth Appropriation Bonds represented approximately $0.6 million in unrealized losses in the investment securities available-for-sale and held-to-maturity portfolios. We continue to closely monitor the political and economic situation of the Island and evaluates the portfolio for any declines in value that management may consider being other-than-temporary. We are exposed to credit risk from mortgage loans that have been sold subject to recourse arrangements. Popular is generally at risk for mortgage loan defaults from the time it funds a loan until the time the loan is sold or securitized into a mortgage-backed security. In the past, we have retained, through recourse arrangements, part of the credit risk on sales of mortgage loans, and we also service certain mortgage loan portfolios with recourse. Consequently, we may suffer losses on these loans when the proceeds from a foreclosure sale of the property underlying a defaulted mortgage loan are less than the outstanding principal balance of the loan plus any uncollected interest advanced and the costs of holding and disposing of the related property. Defective and repurchased loans may harm our business and financial condition. In connection with the sale and securitization of loans, we are required to make a variety of customary representations and warranties regarding Popular and the loans being sold or securitized. Our obligations with respect to these representations and warranties are generally outstanding for the life of the loan, and they relate to, among other things: • compliance with laws and regulations; • underwriting standards; • the accuracy of information in the loan documents and loan file; and • the characteristics and enforceability of the loan. A loan that does not comply with these representations and warranties may take longer to sell, may impact our ability to obtain third-party financing for the loan, and be unsaleable or saleable only at a significant discount. If such a loan is sold before we detect non-compliance, we may be obligated to repurchase the loan and bear any associated loss directly, or we may be obligated to indemnify the purchaser against any loss, either of which could reduce our cash available for operations and liquidity. Management believes that it has 24 Table of Contents established controls to ensure that loans are originated in accordance with the secondary market’s requirements, but mistakes may be made, or certain employees may deliberately violate our lending policies. We seek to minimize repurchases and losses from defective loans by correcting flaws, if possible, and selling or re-selling such loans. We have established specific reserves for possible losses related to repurchases resulting from representation and warranty violations on specific portfolios. Nonetheless, we do not expect any such losses to be significant, although if they were to occur, they could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. The economic recession could reduce demand for our products and services and lead to lower revenue and lower earnings. Popular earns revenue from the interest and fees we charge on the loans and other products and services we sell. As the economy worsens and consumer and business spending decreases and unemployment rises, the demand for those products and services can fall, reducing our interest and fee income and our earnings. These same conditions can also hurt the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, causing us to incur higher credit losses. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse effect on our earnings. During 2008 and continuing in 2009, higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the DIF. In addition, the FDIC instituted two temporary programs, to further insure customer deposits at FDIC-member banks: deposit accounts are now insured up to $250,000 per customer (up from $100,000) and non-interest-bearing transaction accounts are fully insured (unlimited coverage) as a result of our participation in the TAGP. These programs have placed additional stress on the Deposit Insurance Fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the DIF, the FDIC increased assessment rates of insured institutions uniformly by 7 cents for every $100 of deposits beginning with the first quarter of 2009, with additional changes in April 1, 2009, which required riskier institutions to pay a larger share of premiums by factoring in rate adjustments based on, among other things, secured liabilities and unsecured debt levels. In May 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule, effective June 30, 2009, that imposed a special assessment of 5 cents for every $100 on each insured depository institution’s assets minus its Tier 1 Capital as of June 30, 2009, subject to a cap equal to 10 cents per $100 of assessable deposits for the second quarter 2009 risk-based capital assessment. This special assessment applied to us and resulted in a $16.7 million expense in our second quarter of 2009. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring banks to prepay three years’ worth of premiums to replenish its depleted insurance fund. In December 30, 2009, Popular prepaid $221 million and reduced our year-end liquidity at our banking subsidiaries. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures or our capital position is further impaired, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Our expenses for 2009 were significantly and adversely affected by these increased premiums. These announced increases and any future increases or special assessments may materially adversely affect our results of operations. Popular income tax provision and other tax liabilities may be insufficient if taxing authorities are successful in asserting tax positions that are contrary to our position. From time to time, we are audited by various federal, state and local authorities regarding income tax matters. Significant judgment is required to determine Popular’s provision for income taxes and our liabilities for federal, state, local and other taxes. Popular’s audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal and, in some cases, litigation process. Although we believe our approach to determine the appropriate tax treatment is supportable and in accordance with ASC Topic 740 “ Income taxes”, it is possible that the final tax authority may take a tax position that is materially different than that which is reflected in Popular’s income tax provision and other tax reserves. As each audit is conducted, adjustments, if any, are appropriately recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements in the period determined. Such differences could have a material adverse effect on Popular’s income tax provision or benefit, or other tax reserves, in the reporting period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on the results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows for such period. Goodwill impairment could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future results of operations We performed our annual goodwill impairment evaluation for the entire organization during the third quarter of 2009 using July 31, 2009 as the annual evaluation date. Based on the results of the analysis, we concluded that there was no goodwill impairment as of that date. The fair value determination for each reporting unit performed to determine if potential goodwill impairment exists requires management to make estimates and assumptions. Critical assumptions that are used as part of these evaluations include: • selection of comparable publicly traded companies, based on nature of business, location and size; • selection of comparable acquisition and capital raising transactions; 25 Table of Contents • the discount rate applied to future earnings, based on an estimate of the cost of equity; • the potential future earnings of the reporting unit; and • market growth and new business assumptions. In addition, as part of the monitoring process, management performed an assessment for BPNA at December 31, 2009. The results of the assessment at December 31, 2009 indicated that the implied fair value of goodwill exceeded the goodwill carrying amount, resulting in no goodwill impairment. The results obtained in the December 31, 2009 assessment were consistent with the results of the annual impairment test performed in the third quarter of 2009. It is possible that the assumptions and conclusions regarding the valuation of our reporting units could change adversely and could result in the recognition of goodwill impairment. Such impairment could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $604 million of goodwill remaining on our balance sheet, of which $402 million was related to BPNA. Declines in our market capitalization would increase the risk of goodwill impairment in 2010. Popular may face significant operational risk. Popular is exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from Popular’s actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. We establish and maintain systems of internal operational controls that provide us with timely and accurate information about our level of operational risk. While not foolproof, these systems have been designed to manage operational risk at appropriate, cost-effective levels. Procedures exist that are designed to ensure that policies relating to conduct, ethics, and business practices are followed. While we continually monitor and improve the system of internal controls, data processing systems, and corporate-wide processes and procedures, there can be no assurance that future losses will not occur. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in the future could impair our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results or prevent fraud, resulting in loss of investor confidence and adversely affecting our business and stock price. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. As a financial holding company, we are subject to regulation that focuses on effective internal controls and procedures. Management continually seeks to improve these controls and procedures. Management believes that our key internal controls over financial reporting are currently effective; however, such controls and procedures will be modified, supplemented, and changed from time to time as necessitated by our growth and in reaction to external events and developments. While Management will continue to assess our controls and procedures and take immediate action to remediate any future perceived gaps, there can be no guarantee of the effectiveness of these controls and procedures on an on-going basis. Any failure to maintain in the future an effective internal control environment could impact our ability to report our financial results on an accurate and timely basis, which could result in regulatory actions, loss of investor confidence, and adversely impact our business and stock price. Popular uses insurance to manage a number of risks, however not all risks might be insured or insurance may be inadequate to cover all losses. We use insurance to manage a number of risks, including damage or destruction of property, legal and other liability, and certain types of credit risks. Not all such risks are insured, in any given insured situation our insurance may be inadequate to cover all loss, and many risks we face are uninsurable. For those risks that are insured, we also face the risks that the insurer may default on its obligations or that the insurer may refuse to honor them. We treat the former risk by conducting due diligence reviews on the insurers that we use and by striving to use more than one insurer when feasible and practical. The risk of refusal, whether due to honest disagreement or bad faith, is inherent in any contractual situation. A portion of our retail loan portfolio involves mortgage default insurance. If a default insurer were to experience a significant credit downgrade or were to become insolvent, that could adversely affect the carrying value of loans insured by that company, which could result in an immediate increase in our loan loss provision or write-down of the carrying value of those loans on our balance sheet and, in either case, a corresponding impact on our financial results. If many default insurers were to experience downgrades or insolvency at the same time, the risk of a financial impact would be amplified and the disruption to the default insurance industry could curtail our ability to originate new loans that need such insurance, which would result in a loss of business for us. 26 Table of Contents We rely on our systems, employees and certain counterparties, and certain failures could materially adversely affect our operations. Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if one of our employees causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including relating to breakdowns or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could diminish our ability to operate one or more of our businesses, or result in potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, any of which could materially adversely affect us. If personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or clients in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties. We may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers and loss or liability to us. In addition, there is the risk that our controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation, regulatory fines or penalties or losses not covered by insurance. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect us. Management of risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events. We have devoted resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be comprehensive enough given current market conditions. Some of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistically based on historical models. As a result, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend on the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. This information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. Our business could suffer if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate skilled senior leaders Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain key senior leaders, and competition for such senior leaders can be intense in most areas of our business. The executive compensation provisions of the EESA, including amendments to such provisions implemented under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, are expected to limit the types of compensation arrangements that Popular may enter into with our most senior leaders upon adoption of implementing standards by the U. S. Treasury. Our compensation practices are subject to review and oversight by the Federal Reserve Board. We also may be subject to limitations on compensation practices by the FDIC or other regulators, which may or may not affect our competitors. Limitations on our compensation practices could have a negative impact on our ability to attract and retain talented leaders in support of our long term strategy. Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve Board. Any deficiencies in our compensation practices may be incorporated into our supervisory ratings, which can affect our ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve Board. In October 2009, the Federal Reserve Board issued a comprehensive proposal on incentive compensation policies that applies to all banking organizations supervised by the Federal Reserve Board, including Popular and our banking subsidiaries. The proposal sets forth three key principles for incentive compensation arrangements that are designed to help ensure that incentive compensation plans do not encourage excessive risk-taking and are consistent with the safety and soundness of banking organizations. The three principles provide that a banking organization’s incentive compensation arrangements should provide incentives that do not encourage risk-taking beyond the organization’s ability to effectively identify and manage risks, be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and be supported by strong corporate governance. The proposal also contemplates a detailed review by the Federal Reserve Board of the incentive compensation policies and practices of a number of “large, complex banking organizations.” Any deficiencies in compensation practices that are identified may be incorporated into the organization’s supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. The proposal provides that enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements or related risk-management control or governance processes pose a risk to the organization’s safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and 27 Table of Contents effective measures to correct the deficiencies. Separately, the FDIC has solicited comments on whether to amend its risk-based deposit insurance assessment system to potentially increase assessment rates on financial institutions with compensation programs that put the FDIC deposit insurance fund at risk, and proposed legislation would subject compensation practices at financial institutions to heightened standards and increased scrutiny. The scope and content of the U.S. banking regulators’ policies on executive compensation are continuing to develop and are likely to continue evolving in the near future. It cannot be determined at this time whether compliance with such policies will adversely affect the ability of Popular and our subsidiaries to hire, retain and motivate our and their key employees. Adverse credit market conditions may continue to affect our ability to meet our liquidity needs. We may need additional capital resources in the future and these capital resources may not be available when needed or at all. The credit markets, although recovering, continue to experience extreme volatility and disruption. General credit market conditions remain challenging for most issuers, particularly for non-investment grade issuers like us. We need liquidity to, among other things, pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt, maintain our lending activities and repay or replace our maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we may be forced to curtail our operations. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit and our creditworthiness. Our cash flows and financial condition could be materially affected by continued disruptions in the financial markets. We may need to raise additional debt or equity financing in the future to maintain adequate liquidity and capital resources or to finance future growth, investments or strategic acquisitions. We cannot assure you, that such financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we may not be able to maintain adequate liquidity and capital resources or to grow, make strategic acquisitions or investments. Our funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits and support future growth. Our banking subsidiaries rely on customer deposits, brokered deposits and repurchase agreements to fund their operations. In addition, Popular’s banking subsidiaries maintain borrowing facilities with the Federal Home Loan Banks (“FHLB”) and at the discount window of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and have a considerable amount of collateral pledged that can be used to quickly raise funds under these facilities. Borrowings from the FHLB or the Fed discount window require Popular to pledge securities or whole loans as collateral. Although those banking subsidiaries have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, no assurance can be given that they would be able to replace those funds in the future if our financial condition or general market conditions were to change. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if our banking subsidiaries are unable to maintain access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, revenues may not increase proportionately to cover costs. In this case, profitability would be adversely affected. However, management believes that these risks are mitigated by our banking subsidiaries’ status as FDIC-insured depository institutions. Although we consider such sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, we may seek additional debt financing in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. There can be no assurance additional borrowings, if sought, would be available to us or, on what terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, our growth and future prospects could be adversely affected. As mentioned above, under the section “FDIC Insurance”, the FDIC extended its TAGP through June 30, 2010. This program provides depositors with unlimited coverage for non-interest-bearing transaction accounts at participating FDIC-insured institutions. The FDIC’s failure to extend its TAGP beyond June 2010, may result in a reduction of non-interest-bearing deposits at our insured banking subsidiaries. The standard insurance amount of $250,000 per depositor remains in effect through December 31, 2013. As a holding company, we depend on dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries for liquidity. We are a bank holding company and depend primarily on dividends from our banking and other operating subsidiaries to fund our cash needs. These obligations and needs include capitalizing subsidiaries, repaying maturing debt and paying debt service on outstanding debt. Our banking subsidiaries, Banco Popular and BPNA, are limited by law in their ability to make dividend payments and other distributions to us based on their earnings and capital position. A failure by our banking subsidiaries to generate sufficient cash flow to make dividend payments to us may have a negative impact on our results of operation and financial position. Also, a failure by the bank holding company to access sufficient liquidity resources to meet all projected cash needs in the ordinary course of business, may have a detrimental impact on our financial condition and ability to compete in the market. Unforeseen disruptions in the brokered deposits market could compromise our liquidity position. As of December 31, 2009, 8% of our assets were financed by brokered deposits. Our total brokered deposits as of December 31, 2009 were $2.7 billion or 10% of total deposits. An unforeseen disruption in the brokered deposits market, or in our ability to seek or accept 28 Table of Contents brokered deposits, stemming from factors such as legal, regulatory or financial risks, could adversely affect our ability to fund a portion of our operations and/or meet obligations. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could limit financing and other options We have indebtedness that is substantial in relation to our stockholders’ equity. As of December 31, 2009, we had consolidated notes payable of approximately $2.6 billion and had stockholders’ equity of approximately $2.5 billion. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • our ability to obtain additional financing for funding our business or general corporate purposes may be impaired, given our non-investment grade ratings; • restricting our flexibility in responding to changing market conditions or making us more vulnerable to financial distress in the event of a further downturn in economic conditions or our business; • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the funds available to us for other purposes including expansion through acquisition, marketing and expansion of our product offerings; and • we may be more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. Actions by the rating agencies or having capital levels below well-capitalized could raise the cost of our obligations, which could affect our ability to borrow or to enter into hedging agreements in the future and may have other adverse effects on our business. Actions by the rating agencies have raised the cost of our borrowings. Borrowings amounting to $350 million have “ratings triggers” that call for an increase in their interest rate in the event of a ratings downgrade. For example, as a result of rating downgrades effected by the major rating agencies in January, April, June and December 2009, the cost of servicing $350 million of our senior debt increased by an additional 500 basis points. Popular’s senior debt and preferred stock ratings are currently rated “non-investment” grade by the three major rating agencies. The market for non-investment grade securities is much smaller and less liquid than for investment grade securities. Therefore, if we were to attempt to issue preferred stock or debt securities into the capital markets, it is possible that there would not be sufficient demand to complete a transaction and the cost could be substantially higher than for more highly rated securities. In addition, changes in our ratings and capital levels below well-capitalized could affect our relationships with some creditors and business counterparties. For example, a portion of our hedging transactions include ratings triggers or well-capitalized language that permit counterparties to either request additional collateral or terminate our agreements with them based on our below investment grade ratings. Although we have been able to meet any additional collateral requirements thus far and expect that we would be able to enter into agreements with substitute counterparties if any of our existing agreements were terminated, changes in our ratings or capital levels below well capitalized could create additional costs for our businesses. In addition, servicing, licensing and custodial agreements that we are party to with third parties, include ratings covenants. Servicing rights represent a contractual right and not a beneficial ownership interest in the underlying mortgage loans. Failure to maintain the required credit ratings, the third parties could have the right to require Popular to engage a substitute fund custodian and/or increase collateral levels securing the recourse obligations. Popular services residential mortgage loans subject to credit recourse provisions. Certain contractual agreements require us to post collateral to secure such recourse obligations if our required credit ratings are not maintained. Collateral pledged by us to secure recourse obligations approximated $54 million at December 31, 2009. We could be required to post additional collateral under the agreements. Management expects that we would be able to meet additional collateral requirements if and when needed. The requirements to post collateral under certain agreements or the loss of custodian funds could reduce Popular's liquidity resources and impact its operating results. The termination of those agreements or the inability to realize servicing income for our businesses could have an adverse effect on those businesses. Other counterparties are also sensitive to the risk of a ratings downgrade and the implications for our businesses and may be less likely to engage in transactions with us, or may only engage in them at a substantially higher cost, if our ratings remain below investment grade. We are subject to regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, and if we fail to meet these guidelines our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, and other regulatory requirements, Popular and our banking subsidiaries must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators regarding components, risk weightings and other factors. If we fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our business and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to maintain well-capitalized status under the regulatory framework, or are deemed not well managed under regulatory exam procedures, or if we experience certain regulatory violations, our status as a financial holding company and our related eligibility for a streamlined review process for acquisition proposals, and our ability to offer certain financial products will be compromised and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 29 Table of Contents We may not have enough authorized shares of common stock if we are required to raise additional equity capital in the future to satisfy liquidity and regulatory needs. As a result of ongoing challenging recessionary conditions, credit losses have depleted our tangible common equity. Given the focus on tangible common equity by regulatory authorities, rating agencies and the market, we may be required to raise additional capital through the issuance of additional common stock in future periods to replace that common equity. We issued over 357 million shares of common stock in the exchange offer that was conducted in the third quarter of 2009, which left us with only a limited number of authorized and unreserved shares of common stock to issue in the future. As a result, we will need to obtain stockholder consent to amend our certificate of incorporation to increase the amount of authorized capital stock if we intend to issue significant amounts of common stock in the future. We cannot be assured that our stockholders will approve such an increase. Certain of the provisions contained in our Certificate of Incorporation have the effect of making it more difficult to change the Board of Directors, and may make the Board of Directors less responsive to stockholder control. Our certificate of incorporation provides that the members of the Board of Directors are divided into three classes as nearly equal as possible. At each annual meeting of stockholders, one-third of the members of the Board of Directors will be elected for a three-year term, and the other directors will remain in office until their three-year terms expire. Therefore, control of the Board of Directors cannot be changed in one year, and at least two annual meetings must be held before a majority of the members of the Board of Directors can be changed. Our certificate of incorporation also provides that a director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed by the stockholders only for cause by a vote of at least two-thirds of the combined voting power of the outstanding capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors. These provisions have the effect of making it more difficult to change the Board of Directors, and may make the Board of Directors less responsive to stockholder control. These provisions also may tend to discourage attempts by third parties to acquire Popular because of the additional time and expense involved and a greater possibility of failure, and, as a result, may adversely affect the price that a potential purchaser would be willing to pay for the capital stock, thereby reducing the amount a stockholder might realize in, for example, a tender offer for our capital stock. The resolution of significant pending litigation, if unfavorable, could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. We face legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. As more fully described in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”, five putative class actions and one derivative claim have been filed in the United States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico and another derivative suit was filed in the Puerto Rico Court of First Instance but later removed to the U.S. District Court for the District of Puerto Rico, against Popular, certain of our directors and officers and others. Although at this early stage, it is not possible for management to assess the probability of an adverse outcome, or reasonably estimate the amount of any potential loss, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of these matters, if unfavorable, may be material to our results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO AN INVESTMENT IN OUR SECURITIES Our share price may continue to fluctuate. Stock markets, in general, and our common stock, in particular, have over the past year experienced, and continue to experience, increased volatility and decreases in price. The market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due to the market sentiment regarding our operations or business prospects, as well as to market fluctuations and decreases in price that may be unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Increased volatility could result in a further decline in the market price of our common stock. Factors that may affect such fluctuations include the following: • operating results that may be worse than the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • the level of Popular’s regulatory and common equity; • developments in our business or in the financial sector generally; • regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our business and operations; • the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us; • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; • changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the markets for mortgage-related securities; and 30 Table of Contents • changes in global financial markets, global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility. Additional assistance from the U.S. Government may further dilute existing holders of our common stock. There may be new regulatory requirements or standards, or additional U.S. Government programs or requirements or we could incur losses in the future that could result in, or require, additional equity issuances. Such further equity issuances would further dilute the existing holders of our common stock perhaps significantly. The potential issuance of additional shares of our common stock or common equivalent securities in future equity offerings, or as a result of the exercise of the warrant the U.S. Treasury holds, would dilute the ownership interest of our existing common stockholders and could also involve U.S. Government constraints on our operations. Dividends on our common stock and preferred stock have been suspended and stockholders may not receive funds in connection with their investment in our common stock or preferred stock without selling their shares. Holders of our common stock and preferred stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. During 2009, we suspended dividend payments on our common stock and preferred stock. Furthermore, unless we have redeemed all of the trust preferred securities issued to the U.S. Treasury or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of its trust preferred securities to third parties, the consent of the U.S. Treasury will be required for us to, among other things, increase the dividend rate per share of common stock above $0.08 per share or to repurchase or redeem equity securities, including our common stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. Popular has also granted registration rights and offering facilitation rights to the U.S. Treasury pursuant to which we have agreed to lock-up periods during which it would be unable to issue equity securities. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Also, we are a bank holding company and our ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain Federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board regarding capital adequacy and dividends. Moreover, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC have issued policy statements stating that the bank holding companies and insured banks should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. In the current financial and economic environment, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully review their dividend policy and has discouraged dividend pay-out ratios that are at the 100% or higher level unless both asset quality and capital are very strong. In addition, the terms of our outstanding junior subordinated debt securities held by each trust that has issued trust preferred securities, prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on our capital stock, including our common stock and preferred stock. The terms also prohibit us from purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if we have given notice of our election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing. Accordingly, you may have to sell some or all of your shares of our common stock or preferred stock in order to generate cash flow from your investment. You may not realize a gain on your investment when you sell the common stock or preferred stock and may lose the entire amount of your investment. Offerings of debt, which would be senior to our common stock in the event of liquidation, and/or preferred equity securities, which may be senior to our common stock for purposes of dividend distributions or in the event of liquidation, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may seek to increase our liquidity and/or capital resources by offering debt or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. In the event of liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings may receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock from time to time without any action on the part of the stockholders. Our Board of Directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, and preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or upon our dissolution, winding up and liquidation and other terms. If we issue preferred shares in the future that has a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, or if we issue preferred shares with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the common stock, the rights of holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. For further information of other risks faced by Popular please refer to the MD&A section of the Annual Report. 31 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 