ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Financial results are constantly exposed to market risk. Market risk refers to the probability of variations in the net interest income or the market value of assets and liabilities due to interest rate volatility. Despite the varied nature of market risks, the primary source of this risk to the Corporation is the impact of changes in interest rates on net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the revenue generated on earning assets and the interest cost of funding those assets. Depending on the duration and repricing characteristics of the assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items, changes in interest rates could either increase or decrease the level of net interest income. For any given period, the pricing structure of the assets and liabilities is matched when an equal amount of such assets and liabilities mature or reprice in that period. Any mismatch of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities is known as a gap position. A positive gap denotes asset sensitivity, which means that an increase in interest rates could have a positive effect on net interest income, while a decrease in interest rates could have a negative effect on net interest income. The Corporation is subject to interest rate risk because of the following factors: • Assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different times. For example, if assets reprice slower than liabilities and interest rates are generally rising, earnings may initially decline. • Assets and liabilities may reprice at the same time but by different amounts. For example, when the general level of interest rates is rising, we may increase rates charged on loans by an amount that is less than the general increase in market interest rates because of intense pricing competition. Also, basis risk occurs when assets and liabilities have similar repricing frequencies but are tied to different market interest rate indices. • Short-term and long-term market interest rates may change by different amounts, i.e., the shape of the yield curve may affect new loan yields and funding costs differently. • The remaining maturity of various assets and liabilities may shorten or lengthen as interest rates change. For example, if long-term mortgage interest rates decline sharply, mortgage-backed securities held in the securities available-for-sale portfolio may prepay significantly earlier than anticipated, which could reduce portfolio income. If prepayment rates increase, the Corporation would be required to amortize net premiums into income over a shorter period of time, thereby reducing the corresponding asset yield and net interest income. Prepayment risk also has a significant impact on mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations, since prepayments could shorten the weighted average life of these portfolios. • Interest rates may have an indirect impact on loan demand, credit losses, loan origination volume, the value of securities holdings, including interest-only strips, gains and losses on sales of securities and loans, the value of mortgage servicing rights and other sources of earnings. In the Corporation’s liability sensitive position means that its short-term borrowings and, to a lesser extent, interest-bearing deposits typically reprice faster that the adjustable rate assets. As a result, 16 Table of Contents increases in short-term interest rates could reduce net interest income. Also, if the flattening slope of the yield curve and current interest rate conditions persist, coupled with intense pricing competition, the net interest margin could be negatively impacted. In limiting interest rate risk to an acceptable level, management may alter the mix of floating and fixed rate assets and liabilities, change pricing schedules, adjust maturities through sales and purchases of investment securities, and enter into derivative contracts, among other alternatives. The Corporation may suffer losses or experience lower spreads than anticipated in initial projections as management implement strategies to reduce future interest rate exposure. The hedging transactions that the Corporation enters into may not be effective in managing the exposure to market risk, including interest rate risk. The Corporation uses derivatives, to a limited extent, to manage part of the exposure to market risk caused by changes in interest rates or basis risk. The derivative instruments that the Corporation may utilize also have their own risks, which include: (1) basis risk, which is the risk of loss associated with variations in the spread between the asset yield and funding and/or hedge cost; (2) credit or default risk, which is the risk of insolvency or other inability of the counterparty to a particular transaction to perform its obligations thereunder; and (3) legal risk, which is the risk that the Corporation is unable to enforce certain terms of such instruments. All or any of such risks could expose the Corporation to losses. Reductions in the Corporation’s credit ratings or those of any of its subsidiaries would increase the cost of borrowing funds and make the Corporation’s ability to raise new funds or renew maturing debt more difficult. Credit ratings are an important component of the Corporation’s liquidity profile. Among other factors, credit ratings are based on the financial strength, the credit quality of and concentrations in the Corporations’ loan portfolio, the level and volatility of earnings, capital adequacy, the quality of management, the liquidity of the Corporation’s balance sheet, the availability of a significant base of core retail and commercial deposits, and the ability to access a broad array of wholesale funding sources. Changes in the Corporation’s credit ratings or the credit ratings of any of its subsidiaries to a level below “investment grade” would adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to raise funds in the capital markets. The Corporation’s counterparties are also sensitive to the risk of a ratings downgrade. In the event of a downgrade, the cost of borrowing funds would increase. In addition, the Corporation’s ability to raise new funds in the capital markets or renew maturing debt may be more difficult. The Corporation’s ability to compete successfully in the marketplace for deposits depends on various factors, including service, convenience and financial stability as reflected by the operating results and credit ratings by nationally recognized credit agencies. A downgrade in credit ratings may impact the ability to raise deposits, but the Corporation believes that the impact should not be material. Deposits at all of its banking subsidiaries are federally insured (subject to limitations established by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation), which is expected to mitigate the effect of a downgrade in the credit ratings. Some of the Corporation’s borrowings and deposits are subject to “rating triggers”, which are contractual provisions that accelerate the maturity of the underlying obligations in the case of a change in the ratings. Therefore, the need to raise funds in the marketplace could increase in the case of a ratings downgrade. As of December 31, 2005, the Corporation had outstanding $216 million of borrowings subject to rating triggers. A failure to comply with financial covenants in contractual agreements could accelerate payments of related borrowings. In the course of borrowing from institutional lenders and other investors, the Corporation has entered into contractual agreements to maintain certain levels of debt, capital and asset quality, among other financial covenants. Failing to comply with those agreements may result in an event of default, which could accelerate the repayment of the related borrowings. An event of default would also affect the Corporation’s ability to raise new funds or renew maturing debt. 17 Table of Contents The Corporation is subject to default risk in its loan portfolio. The Corporation is subject to the risk of loss from loan defaults and foreclosures with respect to the loans originated or acquired. The Corporation establishes provisions for loan losses, which lead to reductions in the income from operations, in order to maintain the allowance for future loan losses at a level which is deemed appropriate by management based upon an assessment of the quality of the loan portfolio in accordance with established procedures and guidelines. There can be no assurance that management has accurately estimated the level of future loan losses or that the Corporation will not have to increase the provision for loan losses in the future as a result of future increases in non-performing loans or for other reasons beyond our control. A prolonged economic downturn or recession would likely result in an increase in delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures and in a reduction of the loan origination activity which would adversely affect the Corporation’s financial results. A period of reduced economic growth or a recession has historically resulted in a reduction in lending activity and an increase in the rate of defaults in commercial loans, consumer loans and residential mortgages. A recession may have a significant adverse impact on the net interest income and fee income. The Corporation may also experience significant losses on the loan portfolio due to a higher level of defaults on commercial loans, consumer loans and residential mortgages. The Corporation operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations. The Corporation is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and Puerto Rico banking authorities. Any change in applicable federal or Puerto Rico laws or regulations could have a substantial impact on its operations. Additional laws and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect the Corporation’s powers, authority and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators, in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties, have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe and unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies. The exercise of this regulatory discretion and power may have a negative impact on the Corporation. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect the Corporation’s profitability. The Corporation faces substantial competition in originating loans and in attracting deposits. The competition in originating loans comes principally from other U.S., Puerto Rico and foreign banks, mortgage banking companies, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and other institutional lenders and purchasers of loans. Certain of the Corporation’s competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulation that governs the Corporation’s business. The Corporation anticipates that it will encounter greater competition with the expansion of its operations on the U.S. mainland. Many institutions with which the Corporation competes on the U.S. mainland have significantly greater assets, capital, name recognition, customer loyalty and other resources. As a result, certain of its competitors may have advantages in conducting certain businesses and providing certain services. Increased competition could require that the Corporation increase the rates offered on deposits or lower the rates charged on loans, which could adversely affect our profitability. The Corporation is exposed to greater risk because a significant portion of the business is concentrated in Puerto Rico. A significant portion of the Corporation’s financial activities and credit exposure are concentrated in Puerto Rico. Consequently, the financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on economic conditions in Puerto Rico. An extended economic slowdown in Puerto Rico, adverse political or economic developments in Puerto Rico or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, affecting Puerto Rico could result in a downturn in loan originations, an increase in the level of nonperforming assets, an increase in the 18 Table of Contents rate of foreclosure loss on mortgage loans and a reduction in the value of the Corporation’s loans and loan servicing portfolio, all of which would adversely affect the Corporation’s profitability. Certain of the provisions contained in the Corporation’s Certificate of Incorporation have the effect of making it more difficult to change the Board of Directors, and may make the Board of Directors less responsive to stockholder control. The Corporation’s certificate of incorporation provides that the members of the Board of Directors are divided into three classes as nearly equal as possible. At each annual meeting of stockholders, one-third of the members of the Board of Directors will be elected for a three-year term, and the other directors will remain in office until their three-year terms expire. Therefore, control of the Board of Directors cannot be changed in one year, and at least two annual meetings must be held before a majority of the members of the Board of Directors can be changed. The Corporation’s certificate of incorporation also provides that a director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed by the stockholders only for cause by a vote of at least two-thirds of the combined voting power of the outstanding capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors. These provisions have the effect of making it more difficult to change the Board of Directors, and may make the Board of Directors less responsive to stockholder control. These provisions also may tend to discourage attempts by third parties to acquire the Corporation because of the additional time and expense involved and a greater possibility of failure, and, as a result, may adversely affect the price that a potential purchaser would be willing to pay for the capital stock, thereby reducing the amount a stockholder might realize in, for example, a tender offer for the Corporation’s capital stock. Preferred rights issued under the Corporation’s Stockholder Protection Rights Agreement may have an anti-takeover effect. Holders of shares of our common stock are entitled to a preferred right to purchase the Corporation’s Series A Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock in certain circumstances. Preferred rights become exercisable if a person or group has acquired 10% or more of the shares of common stock or a tender or exchange offer is commenced which, if consummated, would result in a person becoming the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the common stock. The preferred rights may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and generally may cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire the Corporation under circumstances not approved by the Board of Directors. For further information of other risks faced by the Corporation please refer to the MD&A section of the Annual Report. The Corporation is unable to predict what adverse consequences, if any, or other effects transactions with Doral Financial Corporation or R&G Financial Corporation, the civil litigation related to Doral or R&G matters or the related investigations could have on the Corporation. As described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 under the “MD&A—Transactions with Doral Financial Corporation” and “—Transactions with R&G Financial Corporation”, Doral Financial Corporation (“Doral”) has announced investigations by the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York and R&G Financial Corporation (“R&G”) has announced an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Corporation has had dealings with both Doral and R&G and has provided information in connection with, and is continuing to cooperate with, certain of the investigations of these matters. The Corporation is unable to predict what adverse consequences, if any, or other effects dealings with Doral or R&G, the civil litigation related to Doral or R&G matters or the related investigations could have on the Corporation. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 