ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Financial results are constantly exposed to market risk. Market risk refers to the probability of variations in the net interest income or the market value of assets and liabilities due to interest rate volatility. Despite the varied nature of market risks, the primary source of this risk to the Corporation is the impact of changes in interest rates on net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the revenue generated on earning assets and the interest cost of funding those assets. Depending on the duration and repricing characteristics of the assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items, changes in interest rates could either increase or decrease the level of net interest income. For any given period, the pricing structure of the assets and liabilities is matched when an equal amount of such assets and liabilities mature or reprice in that period. Any mismatch of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities is known as a gap position. A positive gap denotes asset sensitivity, which means that an increase in interest rates could have a positive effect on net interest income, while a decrease in interest rates could have a negative effect on net interest income. The Corporation is subject to interest rate risk because of the following factors: • Assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different times. For example, if assets reprice slower than liabilities and interest rates are generally rising, earnings may initially decline. • Assets and liabilities may reprice at the same time but by different amounts. For example, when the general level of interest rates is rising, we may increase rates charged on loans by an amount that is less than the general increase in market interest rates because of intense pricing competition. Also, basis risk occurs when assets and liabilities have similar repricing frequencies but are tied to different market interest rate indices. • Short-term and long-term market interest rates may change by different amounts, i.e., the shape of the yield curve may affect new loan yields and funding costs differently. • The remaining maturity of various assets and liabilities may shorten or lengthen as interest rates change. For example, if long-term mortgage interest rates decline sharply, mortgage-backed securities held in the securities available-for-sale portfolio may prepay significantly earlier than anticipated, which could reduce portfolio income. If prepayment rates increase, the Corporation would be required to amortize net premiums into income over a shorter period of time, thereby reducing the corresponding asset yield and net interest income. Prepayment risk also has a significant impact on mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations, since prepayments could shorten the weighted average life of these portfolios. • Interest rates may have an indirect impact on loan demand, credit losses, loan origination volume, the value of securities holdings, including interest-only strips, gains and losses on sales of securities and loans, the value of mortgage servicing rights and other sources of earnings. 17 Table of Contents In limiting interest rate risk to an acceptable level, management may alter the mix of floating and fixed rate assets and liabilities, change pricing schedules, adjust maturities through sales and purchases of investment securities, and enter into derivative contracts, among other alternatives. The Corporation may suffer losses or experience lower spreads than anticipated in initial projections as management implement strategies to reduce future interest rate exposure. The hedging transactions that the Corporation enters into may not be effective in managing the exposure to market risk, including interest rate risk. The Corporation uses derivatives, to a limited extent, to manage part of the exposure to market risk caused by changes in interest rates or basis risk. The derivative instruments that the Corporation may utilize also have their own risks, which include: (1) basis risk, which is the risk of loss associated with variations in the spread between the asset yield and funding and/or hedge cost; (2) credit or default risk, which is the risk of insolvency or other inability of the counterparty to a particular transaction to perform its obligations thereunder; and (3) legal risk, which is the risk that the Corporation is unable to enforce certain terms of such instruments. All or any of such risks could expose the Corporation to losses. Reductions in the Corporation’s credit ratings or those of any of its subsidiaries would increase the cost of borrowing funds and make the Corporation’s ability to raise new funds or renew maturing debt more difficult. Credit ratings are an important component of the Corporation’s liquidity profile. Among other factors, credit ratings are based on the financial strength, the credit quality of and concentrations in the Corporations’ loan portfolio, the level and volatility of earnings, capital adequacy, the quality of management, the liquidity of the Corporation’s balance sheet, the availability of a significant base of core retail and commercial deposits, and the ability to access a broad array of wholesale funding sources. Changes in the Corporation’s credit ratings or the credit ratings of any of its subsidiaries to a level below “investment grade” would adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to raise funds in the capital markets. The Corporation’s counterparties are also sensitive to the risk of a ratings downgrade. In the event of a downgrade, the cost of borrowing funds would increase. In addition, the Corporation’s ability to raise new funds in the capital markets or renew maturing debt may be more difficult. The Corporation’s ability to compete successfully in the marketplace for deposits depends on various factors, including service, convenience and financial stability as reflected by the operating results and credit ratings by nationally recognized credit agencies. A downgrade in credit ratings may impact the ability to raise deposits, but the Corporation believes that the impact should not be material. Deposits at all of its banking subsidiaries are federally insured (subject to limitations established by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation), which is expected to mitigate the effect of a downgrade in the credit ratings. A failure to comply with financial covenants in contractual agreements could accelerate payments of related borrowings. In the course of borrowing from institutional lenders and other investors, the Corporation has entered into contractual agreements to maintain certain levels of debt, capital and asset quality, among other financial covenants. Failing to comply with those agreements may result in an event of default, which could accelerate the repayment of the related borrowings. An event of default would also affect the Corporation’s ability to raise new funds or renew maturing debt. The Corporation is subject to default risk in its loan portfolio. The Corporation is subject to the risk of loss from loan defaults and foreclosures with respect to the loans originated or acquired. The Corporation establishes provisions for loan losses, which lead to reductions in the income from operations, in order to maintain the allowance for future loan losses at a level which is deemed appropriate by management based upon an assessment of the quality of the loan portfolio in accordance with established procedures and guidelines. There can be no assurance that management has accurately estimated the level of future loan losses or that the Corporation will not have to increase the provision for loan losses in the future as a result of future increases in non-performing loans or for other reasons beyond its control. 18 Table of Contents A prolonged economic downturn or recession would likely result in an increase in delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures and in a reduction of the loan origination activity which would adversely affect the Corporation’s financial results. A period of reduced economic growth or a recession has historically resulted in a reduction in lending activity and an increase in the rate of defaults in commercial loans, consumer loans and residential mortgages. A recession may have a significant adverse impact on the net interest income and fee income. The Corporation may also experience significant losses on the loan portfolio due to a higher level of defaults on commercial loans, consumer loans and residential mortgages. The Corporation operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations. The Corporation is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and Puerto Rico banking authorities. Any change in applicable federal or Puerto Rico laws or regulations could have a substantial impact on its operations. Additional laws and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect the Corporation’s powers, authority and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators, in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties, have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe and unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies. The exercise of this regulatory discretion and power may have a negative impact on the Corporation. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect the Corporation’s profitability. The Corporation faces substantial competition in originating loans and in attracting deposits. The competition in originating loans comes principally from other U.S., Puerto Rico and foreign banks, mortgage banking companies, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and other institutional lenders and purchasers of loans. Certain of the Corporation’s competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulation that governs the Corporation’s business. The Corporation anticipates that it will encounter greater competition with the expansion of its operations on the U.S. mainland. Many institutions with which the Corporation competes on the U.S. mainland have significantly greater assets, capital, name recognition, customer loyalty and other resources. As a result, certain of its competitors may have advantages in conducting certain businesses and providing certain services. Increased competition could require that the Corporation increase the rates offered on deposits or lower the rates charged on loans, which could adversely affect its profitability. The Corporation is exposed to greater risk because a significant portion of the business is concentrated in Puerto Rico, which was experienced an economic slowdown. A significant portion of the Corporation’s financial activities and credit exposure are concentrated in Puerto Rico. Consequently, the financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on economic conditions in Puerto Rico. An extended economic slowdown in Puerto Rico, adverse political or economic developments in Puerto Rico or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, affecting Puerto Rico could result in a downturn in loan originations, an increase in the level of nonperforming assets, an increase in the rate of foreclosure loss on mortgage loans and a reduction in the value of the Corporation’s loans and loan servicing portfolio, all of which would adversely affect the Corporation’s profitability. Although official statistics are not yet available, it is probable that the Puerto Rico economy ended 2006 in recession. It is estimated that the economy started contracting in the first quarter of 2006. For the first time since 2002, manufacturing has shown an outright decline in overall activity up to 2006 as compared to the same period in 2005. The trend worsened somewhat as the semester progressed, but appeared to be leveling off towards the end. Construction remained relatively weak during the first three quarters of 2006, as the combination of rising interest rates, the Commonwealth’s fiscal situation and decreasing public investment in 19 Table of Contents construction projects affected the sector. However, it did manage to expand very modestly vs. the prior-year period. The value of construction permits during the first three quarters of 2006 declined 9.4%, with most of the drop coming from the public sector. Retail sales during the same period also reflected the uncertainty prevalent at the time related to the Commonwealth’s fiscal situation, as well as increased oil and utility prices. Sales registered a decline of 1.8% as compared to the same period in 2005, as the months surrounding a temporary government shutdown, due to budgetary deficits, were particularly affected. The unemployment rate, after spiking temporarily to almost 20% in May as a result of the shutdown, has declined to 9.7% as of September 2006. Tourism is the one sector that has been resilient. Activity in the sector has expanded consistently since 2004, and in the year ending June 2006 it registered the strongest increase in four years. Factors that may be boosting the tourism sector are geo-political tensions throughout the world, a relative benign hurricane season for the past two years, and a relatively solid U.S. economy. In general it is apparent that in 2006 the P.R. economy entered a recession, primarily due to weaker manufacturing, softer consumption and decreased government investment in construction. The above economic concerns and uncertainty in the private and public sectors may also have an adverse effect in the credit quality of the Corporation’s loan portfolios, as delinquency rates may increase in the short-term, until the economy stabilizes. Also, a potential reduction in consumer spending may also impact growth in other interest and non-interest revenue sources of the Corporation. The Corporation is unable to predict what adverse consequences, if any, or other effects transactions with Doral Financial Corporation or R&G Financial Corporation, the civil litigation related to Doral or R&G matters or the related investigations could have on the Corporation. As previously mentioned on page 17, under Item 1. Business, Doral Financial Corporation (“Doral”) has announced investigations by the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York and R&G Financial Corporation (“R&G”) has announced an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Corporation has had dealings with both Doral and R&G and has provided information in connection with, and is continuing to cooperate with, certain of the investigations of these matters. The Corporation is unable to predict what adverse consequences, if any, or other effects dealings with Doral or R&G, the civil litigation related to Doral or R&G matters or the related investigations could have on the Corporation. Certain of the provisions contained in the Corporation’s Certificate of Incorporation have the effect of making it more difficult to change the Board of Directors, and may make the Board of Directors less responsive to stockholder control. The Corporation’s certificate of incorporation provides that the members of the Board of Directors are divided into three classes as nearly equal as possible. At each annual meeting of stockholders, one-third of the members of the Board of Directors will be elected for a three-year term, and the other directors will remain in office until their three-year terms expire. Therefore, control of the Board of Directors cannot be changed in one year, and at least two annual meetings must be held before a majority of the members of the Board of Directors can be changed. The Corporation’s certificate of incorporation also provides that a director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed by the stockholders only for cause by a vote of at least two-thirds of the combined voting power of the outstanding capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors. These provisions have the effect of making it more difficult to change the Board of Directors, and may make the Board of Directors less responsive to stockholder control. These provisions also may tend to discourage attempts by third parties to acquire the Corporation because of the additional time and expense involved and a greater possibility of failure, and, as a result, may adversely affect the price that a potential purchaser would be willing to pay for the capital stock, thereby reducing the amount a stockholder might realize in, for example, a tender offer for the Corporation’s capital stock. Preferred rights issued under the Corporation’s Stockholder Protection Rights Agreement may have an anti-takeover effect. Holders of shares of our common stock are entitled to a preferred right to purchase the Corporation’s Series A Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock in certain circumstances. Preferred rights become exercisable if a person or group has acquired 10% or more of the shares of common stock or a 20 Table of Contents tender or exchange offer is commenced which, if consummated, would result in a person becoming the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the common stock. The preferred rights may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and generally may cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire the Corporation under circumstances not approved by the Board of Directors. Rating downgrades on the Government of Puerto Rico’s debt obligations could affect the value of the Corporation’s loans to the Government and its portfolio of Puerto Rico Government Securities. Even though Puerto Rico’s economy is closely integrated to that of the U.S. mainland and its government and many of its instrumentalities are investment-grade rated borrowers in the U.S. capital markets, the current fiscal situation of the Government of Puerto Rico has led nationally recognized rating agencies to downgrade its debt obligations. In May 2006, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the Government’s general obligation bond rating to Baa3 from Baa2, and put the credit on “watch list” for possible further downgrades. The Commonwealth’s appropriation bonds and some of the subordinated revenue bonds were also downgraded by one notch and are now rated just below investment grade at Ba1. Standard & Poor’s Rating Services (“S&P”) still rates the Government’s general obligations two notches above junk at BBB, and the Commonwealth’s appropriation bonds and some of the subordinated revenue bonds BBB-, a category that continues to be investment-grade rated. In July 2006, S&P and Moody’s affirmed their credit ratings on the Commonwealth debt, and removed the debt from their respective watch lists, thus reducing the possibility of an immediate additional downgrade. These actions resulted after the Government approved the budget for the fiscal year 2007, which runs from July 2006 through June 2007, which included the adoption of a new sales tax. Revenues from the sales tax will be dedicated primarily to fund the government’s operating expenses, and to a lesser extent, to repay government debt and fund local municipal governments. Both rating agencies maintained the negative outlook for the Puerto Rico obligation bonds. Factors such as the government’s ability to implement meaningful steps to curb operating expenditures, improve managerial and budgetary controls, and eliminate the government’s reliance on operating budget loans from the Government Development Bank of Puerto Rico will be key determinants of future rating stability and restoration of a stable long-term outlook. Also, the inability to agree on future fiscal year Commonwealth budgets could result in ratings pressure from the rating agencies. It is uncertain how the financial markets may react to any potential future ratings downgrade in Puerto Rico’s debt obligations. However, the fallout from recent budgetary crisis and a possible ratings downgrade could adversely affect the value of Puerto Rico’s Government obligations. A substantial portion of the Corporation’s credit exposure to the Government of Puerto Rico is either collateralized loans or obligations that have a specific source of income or revenues identified for their repayment. Some of these obligations consist of senior and subordinated loans to public corporations that obtain revenues from rates charged for services or products, such as water and electric power utilities. Public corporations have varying degrees of independence from the central Government and many receive appropriations or other payments from the central Government. The Corporation also has loans to various municipalities for which the good faith, credit and unlimited taxing power of the applicable municipality has been pledged to their repayment. These municipalities are required by law to levy special property taxes in such amounts as shall be required for the payment of all of its general obligation bonds and loans. Another portion of these loans consist of special obligations of various municipalities that are payable from the basic real and personal property taxes collected within such municipalities. The full good faith and credit obligations of the municipalities have a first lien on the basic property taxes. At December 31, 2006, the Corporation had $901 million of credit facilities granted to or guaranteed by the P.R. Government and its political subdivisions, of which $50 million are uncommitted lines of credit. Of these total credit facilities granted, $735 million in loans were outstanding at December 31, 2006. A substantial portion of the credit exposure to the Government of Puerto Rico has an identified repayment stream, which includes in some cases the good faith, credit and unlimited taxation power of certain municipalities and, an assignment of basic property taxes and other revenues. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2006, the Corporation had outstanding $187 million in Obligations of Puerto Rico, States and Political Subdivisions as part of its investment portfolio. Of that total, $164 million is exposed to the creditworthiness of the P.R. Government and its municipalities. Of that portfolio, $58 million are in the form of Puerto Rico Commonwealth’s Appropriation Bonds, which are 21 Table of Contents currently rated Ba1, one notch below investment grade, by Moody’s and BBB-, the lowest investment grade rating, by Standard & Poor’s Rating Services (“S&P”), another nationally recognized credit rating agency. At December 31, 2006, the Appropriation Bonds indicated above represented approximately $3.0 million in unrealized losses in the Corporation’s portfolio of investment securities available- for- sale. The Corporation is closely monitoring the political and economic situation of the Island and evaluates the portfolio for any declines in value that management may consider being other- than- temporary. Management has the intent and ability to hold these investments for a reasonable period of time or up to maturity for a forecasted recovery of fair value up to (or beyond) the cost of these investments. A prolonged economic slowdown or a decline in the real estate market in the U.S mainland could harm the results of operations of one of the Corporation’s business segments The residential mortgage loan origination business has historically been cyclical, enjoying periods of strong growth and profitability followed by periods of shrinking volumes and industry-wide losses. Any decline in residential mortgage loan originations in the market could also reduce the level of mortgage loans the Corporation may produce in the future and adversely impact its business. During periods of rising interest rates, refinancing originations for many mortgage products tend to decrease as the economic incentives for borrowers to refinance their existing mortgage loans are reduced. In addition, the residential mortgage loan origination business is impacted by home values. Over the past several years, residential real estate values in some areas of the U.S. mainland have increased greatly, which has contributed to the recent rapid growth in the residential mortgage industry, particularly with respect to refinancings. If residential real estate values decline, this could lead to lower volumes and higher losses across the industry, adversely impacting the Corporation’s business. Because the Corporation makes a substantial number of loans to credit-impaired borrowers through its subsidiary PFH, the actual rates of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on these loans could be higher during economic slowdowns. Rising unemployment, higher interest rates or declines in housing prices tend to have a greater negative effect on the ability of such borrowers to repay their mortgage loans. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 71% of PFH’s mortgage loan portfolio was non-prime, meaning that they have a credit score of 660 or below. This represented approximately 44% of the Corporation’s mortgage loan portfolio as of such date. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could harm the Corporation’s ability to sell loans, the prices it receives for its loans, the values of its mortgage loans held-for-sale or its residual interests in securitizations, which could harm the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any material decline in real estate values would weaken the Corporation’s collateral loan-to-value ratios and increase the possibility of loss if a borrower defaults. In such event, the Corporation will be subject to the risk of loss on such mortgage assets arising from borrower defaults to the extent not covered by third-party credit enhancement. For further information of other risks faced by the Corporation please refer to the MD&A section of the Annual Report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 