ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our financial condition and results of operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties and could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks and uncertainties. The risks and uncertainties that we believe are the most significant are discussed below. You should carefully consider these risks before making an investment decision with respect to any of the Corporation’s securities. This annual report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this report. Risks Relating to the Corporation and its Affiliates The Corporation’s future success depends on the successful growth of its subsidiaries. The Corporation’s primary business activity for the foreseeable future will be to act as the holding company of the Bank, the Insurance Group and its other direct and indirect subsidiaries. Therefore, the Corporation’s future profitability will depend on the success and growth of these subsidiaries. In the future, part of the Corporation’s growth may come from buying other banks and buying or establishing other companies. Such entities may not be profitable after they are purchased or established, and they may lose money, particularly at first. A new bank or company may bring with it unexpected liabilities, bad loans, or bad employee relations, or the new bank or company may lose customers. Interest rates and other economic conditions will impact our results of operations. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including declines in real estate values, rapid changes in interest rates and the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. Our profitability is in part a function of the spread between the interest rates earned on assets and the interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities (i.e., net interest income), including advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank (the “FHLB”) of Atlanta. Interest rate risk arises from mismatches (i.e., the interest sensitivity gap) between the dollar amount of repricing or maturing assets and liabilities and is measured in terms of the ratio of the interest rate sensitivity gap to total assets. More assets repricing or maturing than liabilities over a given time period is considered asset-sensitive and is reflected as a positive gap, and more liabilities repricing or maturing than assets over a given time period is considered liability-sensitive and is reflected as negative gap. An asset-sensitive position (i.e., a positive gap) could enhance earnings in a rising interest rate environment and could negatively impact earnings in a falling interest rate environment, while a liability-sensitive position (i.e., a negative gap) could enhance earnings in a falling interest rate environment and negatively impact earnings in a rising interest rate environment. Fluctuations in interest rates are not predictable or controllable. There can be no assurance that our attempts to structure our asset and liability management strategies to mitigate the impact on net interest income of changes in market interest rates will be successful in the event of such changes. The majority of our business is concentrated in Maryland and West Virginia, much of which involves real estate lending, so a decline in the real estate and credit markets could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Most of our loans are made to borrowers located in Western Maryland and Northeastern West Virginia, and many of these loans, including construction and land development loans, are secured by real estate. Approximately 15%, or $157 million, of our total loans are real estate acquisition construction and development projects that are secured by real estate. Accordingly, a decline in local economic conditions would likely have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, and the impact on us would likely be greater than the impact felt by larger financial institutions whose loan portfolios are geographically diverse. We cannot guarantee that any risk management practices we implement to address our geographic and loan concentrations will be effective to prevent losses relating to our loan portfolio. In point of fact, the national and local economies have significantly weakened during the past several years because of the banking crisis and resulting economic recession that began around 2008, and these conditions have caused, and continue to cause, a host of challenges for financial institutions, including the Bank. For example, these conditions have made it more difficult for real estate owners and owners of loans secured by real estate to sell their assets at desirable times and prices. Not only has this impacted the demand for credit to finance the acquisition and development of real estate, but it has also impaired the ability of banks, including the Bank, to sell real estate acquired through foreclosure. In the case of real estate acquisition, construction and development projects that we have financed, these challenging economic conditions have caused some of our borrowers to default on their loans. Because of the deterioration in the market values of real estate collateral caused by the recession, banks, including the Bank, have been unable to recover the full amount due under their loans when forced to foreclose on and sell real estate collateral. As a result, we have realized significant impairments and losses in our loan portfolio, which have materially and adversely impacted our financial condition and results of operations. These conditions and their consequences are likely to continue until the nation fully recovers from the current economic recession. Management cannot predict the extent to which these conditions will cause future impairments or losses, nor can it provide any assurances as to when, or if, economic conditions will improve. [12] Our concentrations of commercial real estate loans could subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny and directives, which could force us to preserve or raise capital and/or limit our future commercial lending activities. The FRB and the FDIC, along with the other federal banking regulators, issued guidance in December 2006 entitled “Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending, Sound Risk Management Practices” directed at institutions who have particularly high concentrations of commercial real estate loans within their lending portfolios. This guidance suggests that these institutions face a heightened risk of financial difficulties in the event of adverse changes in the economy and commercial real estate markets. Accordingly, the guidance suggests that institutions whose concentrations exceed certain percentages of capital should implement heightened risk management practices appropriate to their concentration risk. The guidance provides that banking regulators may require such institutions to reduce their concentrations and/or maintain higher capital ratios than institutions with lower concentrations in commercial real estate. Based on our concentration of commercial acquisition and development and construction lending as of December 31, 2010, we may be subject to heightened supervisory scrutiny during future examinations and/or be required to take steps to address our concentration and capital levels. Management cannot predict the extent to which this guidance will impact our operations or capital requirements. The Bank may experience loan losses in excess of its allowance, which would reduce our earnings. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management of the Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for specific loans when their ultimate collectability is considered questionable. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require us to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of its examination process, our earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. Although management continually monitors our loan portfolio and makes determinations with respect to the allowance for loan losses, future adjustments may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used or adverse developments arise with respect to our non-performing or performing loans. Material additions to the allowance for loan losses could result in a material decrease in our net income and capital, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The market value of our investments could decline. As of December 31, 2010, we had classified all but four of our investment securities as available-for-sale pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 320, Investments – Debt and Equity Securities, relating to accounting for investments. Topic 320 requires that unrealized gains and losses in the estimated value of the available-for-sale portfolio be “marked to market” and reflected as a separate item in shareholders’ equity (net of tax) as accumulated other comprehensive loss. There can be no assurance that future market performance of our investment portfolio will enable us to realize income from sales of securities. Shareholders’ equity will continue to reflect the unrealized gains and losses (net of tax) of these investments. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the market value of our investment portfolio will not decline, causing a corresponding decline in shareholders’ equity. Our investments include $12 million of stock issued by the FHLB of Atlanta, the Atlantic Central Bankers Bank (“ACBB”) and the Community Bankers Bank (“CBB”). This stock was acquired in connection with our membership with the FHLB of Atlanta, ACBB and CBB, and the amount of stock that we must hold is based on our borrowing levels with those banks and the quality of the collateral that we pledge to secure those borrowings. The stock is carried at cost and is considered a long-term investment because of the restrictions on our ability to transfer the stock. The Company recognizes dividends on this stock on a cash basis. For 2010, dividends on this stock of $46,500 were recognized in earnings. For the comparable period of 2009, we recognized $29,000 in earnings from dividends on this stock. Management has evaluated this restricted stock for impairment and believes that no impairment charge is necessary as of December 31, 2010. [13] Management believes that several factors will affect the market value of our investment portfolio. These include, but are not limited to, changes in interest rates or expectations of changes, the degree of volatility in the securities markets, inflation rates or expectations of inflation and the slope of the interest rate yield curve (the yield curve refers to the differences between shorter-term and longer-term interest rates; a positively sloped yield curve means shorter-term rates are lower than longer-term rates). Also, the passage of time will affect the market values of our investment securities, in that the closer they are to maturing, the closer the market price should be to par value. These and other factors may impact specific categories of the portfolio differently, and management cannot predict the effect these factors may have on any specific category. We operate in a competitive environment, and our inability to effectively compete could adversely and materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a competitive environment, competing for loans, deposits, and customers with commercial banks, savings associations and other financial entities. Competition for deposits comes primarily from other commercial banks, savings associations, credit unions, money market and mutual funds and other investment alternatives. Competition for loans comes primarily from other commercial banks, savings associations, mortgage banking firms, credit unions and other financial intermediaries. Competition for other products, such as insurance and securities products, comes from other banks, securities and brokerage companies, insurance companies, insurance agents and brokers, and other non-bank financial service providers in our market area. Many of these competitors are much larger in terms of total assets and capitalization, have greater access to capital markets, and/or offer a broader range of financial services than those that we offer. In addition, banks with a larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the needs of larger customers. In addition, changes to the banking laws over the last several years have facilitated interstate branching, merger and expanded activities by banks and holding companies. For example, the GLB Act revised the BHC Act and repealed the affiliation provisions of the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933, which, taken together, limited the securities, insurance and other non-banking activities of any company that controls an FDIC insured financial institution. As a result, the ability of financial institutions to branch across state lines and the ability of these institutions to engage in previously-prohibited activities are now accepted elements of competition in the banking industry. These changes may bring us into competition with more and a wider array of institutions, which may reduce our ability to attract or retain customers. Management cannot predict the extent to which we will face such additional competition or the degree to which such competition will impact our financial conditions or results of operations. The banking industry is heavily regulated; significant regulatory changes could adversely affect our operations. Our operations will be impacted by current and future legislation and by the policies established from time to time by various federal and state regulatory authorities. The Corporation is subject to supervision by the FRB. The Bank is subject to supervision and periodic examination by the Maryland Commissioner of Financial Regulation, the West Virginia Division of Banking, and the FDIC. Banking regulations, designed primarily for the safety of depositors, may limit a financial institution’s growth and the return to its investors by restricting such activities as the payment of dividends, mergers with or acquisitions by other institutions, investments, loans and interest rates, interest rates paid on deposits, expansion of branch offices, and the offering of securities or trust services. The Corporation and the Bank are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by federal law and could be subject to enforcement actions to the extent that either is found by regulatory examiners to be undercapitalized. It is not possible to predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that such changes may have on our future business and earnings prospects. Management also cannot predict the nature or the extent of the effect on our business and earnings of future fiscal or monetary policies, economic controls, or new federal or state legislation. Further, the cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Our regulatory expenses will likely increase due to federal laws, rules and programs that have been enacted or adopted in response to the recent banking crisis and the current national recession. In response to the banking crisis that began in 2008 and the resulting national recession, the federal government took drastic steps to help stabilize the credit market and the financial industry. These steps included the enactment of EESA, which, among other things, raised the basic limit on federal deposit insurance coverage to $250,000, and the FDIC’s adoption of the TLGP, which, under the TAG portion, provides full deposit insurance coverage through June 30, 2010 for non-interest bearing transaction deposit accounts, IOLTAs, and NOW accounts with interest rates of 0.50% or less, regardless of account balance. The TLGP was extended to December 31, 2010 and includes non-interest bearing transaction deposit accounts, IOLTAs, and NOW accounts with interest rates of 0.25% or less, regardless of account balance. The TLGP requires participating institutions, like us, to pay 10 basis points per annum for the additional insured deposits. These actions will cause our regulatory expenses to increase. Additionally, due in part to the failure of several depository institutions around the country since the banking crisis began, the FDIC imposed an emergency insurance assessment to help restore the Deposit Insurance Fund and further required insured depository institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based deposit assessments through 2012 on December 30, 2009. Given the current state of the national economy, there can be no assurance that the FDIC will not impose future emergency assessments or further revise its rate structure. [14] In addition, and as noted above, the Dodd-Frank Act recently became law and implements significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape that will impact all financial institutions, including First United Corporation and the Bank. The Dodd-Frank Act is likely to increase our regulatory compliance burden. It is too early, however, for us to assess the full impact that the Dodd-Frank Act may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Many of the Dodd-Frank Act’s provisions require subsequent regulatory rulemaking. The Dodd-Frank Act’s significant regulatory changes include the creation of a new financial consumer protection agency, known as the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the “Bureau”), that is empowered to promulgate new consumer protection regulations and revise existing regulations in many areas of consumer compliance, which will increase our regulatory compliance burden and costs and may restrict the financial products and services we offer to our customers. Moreover, the Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt stricter consumer protection laws and states’ attorneys general may enforce consumer protection rules issued by the Bureau. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies by, among other things, imposing leverage ratios on bank holding companies and prohibiting new trust preferred issuances from counting as Tier 1 capital. These restrictions will limit our future capital strategies. The Dodd-Frank Act also increases regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions, which could limit our ability to enter into, or increase the costs associated with, interest rate and other hedging transactions. Although certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, such as direct supervision by the Bureau, will not apply to banking organizations with less than $10 billion of assets, such as First United Corporation and the Bank, the changes resulting from the legislation will impact our business. These changes will require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make necessary changes. Recent amendments to the FRB’s Regulation E may negatively impact our non-interest income. On November 12, 2009, the FRB announced the final rules amending Regulation E (“Reg E”) that prohibit financial institutions from charging fees to consumers for paying overdrafts on automated teller machine and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts-in, to the overdraft service for those types of transactions. Compliance with this regulation is effective July 1, 2010 for new consumer accounts and August 15, 2010 for existing consumer accounts. The impact that these new rules will have on us is unknown at this time, but they do have the potential to reduce our non-interest income and this reduction could be material. Customer concern about deposit insurance may cause a decrease in deposits held at the Bank. With increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits from the Bank in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with us is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs and net income. Our funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits and support our future growth. We rely on customer deposits, advances from the FHLB, lines of credit at other financial institutions and brokered funds to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, no assurance can be given that we would be able to replace such funds in the future if our financial condition or the financial condition of the FHLB or market conditions were to change. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained and/or our cost of funds will increase if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if financing necessary to accommodate future growth is not available at favorable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our profitability would be adversely affected. The loss of key personnel could disrupt our operations and result in reduced earnings. Our growth and profitability will depend upon our ability to attract and retain skilled managerial, marketing and technical personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Our current executive officers provide valuable services based on their many years of experience and in-depth knowledge of the banking industry and the market areas we serve. Due to the intense competition for financial professionals, these key personnel would be difficult to replace and an unexpected loss of their services could result in a disruption to the continuity of operations and a possible reduction in earnings. [15] We may lose key personnel because of our participation in the Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program. On January 30, 2009, we participated in the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) Capital Purchase Program (the “CPP”) adopted by the U.S. Department of Treasury (“Treasury”) by selling $30 million in shares of our Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (the “Series A Preferred Stock”) to Treasury and issuing a 10-year common stock purchase warrant (the “Warrant”) to Treasury. As part of these transactions, we adopted Treasury’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which Treasury holds any shares of the Series A Preferred Stock and/or any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the Warrant. On February 17, 2009, the Recovery Act was signed into law, which, among other things, imposed additional executive compensation restrictions on institutions that participate in TARP for so long as any TARP assistance remains outstanding. Among these restrictions is a prohibition against making most severance payments to our “senior executive officers” (our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and, generally, the three next most highly compensated executive officers) and to our next five most highly compensated employees. The restrictions also limit the type, timing and amount of bonuses, retention awards and incentive compensation that may be paid to certain employees. These restrictions, coupled with the competition we face from other institutions, including institutions that do not participate in TARP, may make it more difficult for us to attract and/or retain exceptional key employees. Our lending activities subject us to the risk of environmental liabilities. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by other recent legislation. As discussed above, the GLB Act repealed restrictions on banks affiliating with securities firms and it also permitted bank holding companies that become financial holding companies to engage in additional financial activities, including insurance and securities underwriting and agency activities, merchant banking, and insurance company portfolio investment activities that are currently not permitted for bank holding companies. Although the Corporation is a financial holding company, this law may increase the competition we face from larger banks and other companies. It is not possible to predict the full effect that this law will have on us. The federal Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management of every publicly traded company to perform an annual assessment of the company’s internal control over financial reporting and to report on whether the system is effective as of the end of the company’s fiscal year. If our management were to discover and report significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, then the market value of our securities and shareholder value could decline. The federal USA PATRIOT Act requires certain financial institutions, such as the Bank, to maintain and prepare additional records and reports that are designed to assist the government’s efforts to combat terrorism. This law includes sweeping anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and required additional regulations, including, among other things, standards for verifying client identification when opening an account and rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. If we fail to comply with this law, we could be exposed to adverse publicity as well as fines and penalties assessed by regulatory agencies. We may be subject to claims and the costs of defensive actions. Our customers may sue us for losses due to alleged breaches of fiduciary duties, errors and omissions of employees, officers and agents, incomplete documentation, our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or many other reasons. Also, our employees may knowingly or unknowingly violate laws and regulations. Management may not be aware of any violations until after their occurrence. This lack of knowledge may not insulate us from liability. Claims and legal actions will result in legal expenses and could subject us to liabilities that may reduce our profitability and hurt our financial condition. We may not be able to keep pace with developments in technology. We use various technologies in conducting our businesses, including telecommunication, data processing, computers, automation, internet-based banking, and debit cards. Technology changes rapidly. Our ability to compete successfully with other financial institutions may depend on whether we can exploit technological changes. We may not be able to exploit technological changes, and any investment we do make may not make us more profitable. [16] Risks Relating to the Corporation’s Securities We have entered into informal agreements with our regulators that limit our ability to pay dividends and make other distributions on our outstanding securities, and we have deferred the payment of certain dividends and distributions pursuant to these agreements. The Corporation is a party to an informal agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond (the “FRBR”) pursuant to which the Corporation agreed not to pay dividends on outstanding shares of its common or preferred stock, make interest payments under the junior subordinated debentures underlying the trust preferred securities issued by the Trusts (the “TPS Debentures”), or take any other action that reduces regulatory capital without the prior approval of the FRBR. The Bank is a party to a similar agreement with the FDIC and the Maryland Commissioner. These agreements give our regulators the ability to prohibit a proposed dividend payment, or any other distribution with respect to outstanding securities, including the repurchase of stock, at a time or times when applicable banking and corporate laws would otherwise permit such a dividend or distribution. On November 15, 2010, the Corporation elected, at the request of the FRBR pursuant to its agreement, to cease making cash dividend payments on its common stock and to defer regularly scheduled quarterly cash dividend payments under its Series A Preferred Stock, starting with the dividend payment due November 15, 2010. On December 15, 2010, at the request of the FRBR pursuant to its agreement, the Corporation elected to defer regularly scheduled quarterly interest payments with respect to an aggregate of $41.73 million of the TPS Debentures, starting with the interest payments due in March 2011, and this deferral requires the Trusts to defer regular quarterly dividend payments on their trust preferred securities. Both the deferral of dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and the deferral of interest on the TPS Debentures are permitted under the terms of those securities and do not constitute events of default. During the deferral periods, dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and interest under the TPS Debentures, and dividends on the related trust preferred securities, continue to accrue and must be paid at the time the Corporation recommences regular payments. Although the Corporation intends to periodically reevaluate the deferral of, and, in consultation with its regulators, consider reinstating, these payments when appropriate, no assurances can be given as to when, or if, these payments will recommence. Even if the Corporation were to conclude at a later date that its financial condition and results of operations warrant the recommencement of these payments, there can be no guarantee that our regulators will agree with our conclusion. Moreover, there is no requirement that our regulators take consistent approaches when exercising their powers under these agreements. For example, even though the FRBR might approve the payment of a particular dividend, that dividend could be effectively prohibited by the FDIC and/or the Maryland Commissioner if the Corporation intended to fund that dividend through a dividend by the Bank and the FDIC and/or the Maryland Commissioner were to deny the Bank’s dividend request. Similarly, even though the FDIC and the Maryland Commissioner might approve a dividend by the Bank to the Corporation, the FRBR could prevent the Corporation from using that dividend to make a distribution to the holders of its outstanding common stock, Series A Preferred Stock, or outstanding TPS Debentures. Accordingly, holders of shares of the Corporation’s common stock, shares of the Series A Preferred Stock and the trust preferred securities should not expect to receive cash dividends for the foreseeable future. These agreements increase the likelihood that we will realize the other risks discussed below related to our ability to pay dividends and make other distributions. The terms of the Corporation’s Series A Preferred Stock limit the Corporation’s ability to pay dividends and make other distributions on its securities, and the Corporation’s recent deferral of dividend payments under its Series A Preferred Stock has triggered dividend restrictions. Under the terms of the transaction documents relating to the Corporation’s issuance of its Series A Preferred Stock and Warrant to Treasury, the Corporation’s ability to declare or pay dividends on shares of its capital stock is limited. Specifically, the Corporation is unable to declare dividends on common stock, other stock ranking junior to the Series A Preferred Stock (“Junior Stock”), or preferred stock ranking on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock (“Parity Stock”), and it is prohibited from repurchasing shares of common stock, Junior Stock or Parity Stock, if the Corporation is in arrears on the Series A Preferred Stock dividends. Further, the Corporation is not permitted to increase dividends on its common stock above the amount of the last quarterly cash dividend per share declared prior to October 14, 2008 without Treasury’s approval until January 30, 2012 unless all of the Series A Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred. In addition, until the earlier of January 30, 2012 or the date on which the Treasury no longer holds any Series A Preferred Stock, Treasury’s consent generally is required for any repurchase by the Corporation of its outstanding capital stock or any redemption by the Trusts of their outstanding trust preferred securities. [17] As noted above, the Corporation is currently in arrears on the Series A Preferred Stock dividends, so no cash dividends or other distributions on, or repurchases of, the Corporation’s common stock are currently permitted. The Corporation cannot predict when, or if, it will be able to pay accrued and future dividends on its Series A Preferred Stock. Accordingly, the holders of shares of the Corporation’s common stock and Series A Preferred Stock should not expect to receive cash dividends for the foreseeable future. The Corporation’s ability to pay dividends on its securities is also subject to the terms of its outstanding debentures, and the Corporation’s recent deferral of interest payments under certain of those debentures has triggered dividend restrictions. In March 2004, the Corporation issued approximately $30.9 million of TPS Debentures to Trust I and Trust II in connection with the sales by those trusts of $30.0 in mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities to third party investors. In December 2004, the Corporation issued $5.0 million of additional junior subordinated debentures that were not tied to trust preferred securities offerings. Between December 2009 and January 2010, the Corporation issued approximately $10.8 million of TPS Debentures to Trust III and Trust III issued approximately $10.5 million in mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities to third party investors. The terms of these debentures require the Corporation to make quarterly payments of interest to the holders of the debentures. Under the TPS Debentures, the Corporation has the ability to defer payments of interest for up to 20 consecutive quarterly periods. As noted above, the Corporation elected to defer interest payments under all of its TPS Debentures on December 15, 2010. Accordingly, the Corporation is not currently permitted to pay dividends or make distributions on, or repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, any shares of its common stock or Series A Preferred Stock. The Corporation cannot predict when, or if, it will resume making interest payments under its TPS Debentures. Holders of shares of the Corporation’s common stock and Series A Preferred Stock should not expect to receive cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Applicable banking and Maryland laws impose additional restrictions on the ability of the Corporation and the Bank to pay dividends and make other distributions on their capital securities, and, in any event, the payment of dividends is at the discretion of the Board of Directors. In the past, the Corporation’s ability to pay dividends to shareholders has been largely dependent upon the receipt of dividends from the Bank. Since December 2009, the Corporation has used cash held at the holding company to pay dividends. In December 2010, however, the Corporation contributed substantially all of its excess cash to the Bank to strengthen the Bank’s capital levels. Accordingly, in the event the Corporation desires to pay cash dividends on its common stock and/or Series A Preferred Stock in the future, and assuming such dividends are then permitted under the terms of its Series A Preferred Stock and its junior subordinated debentures, the Corporation will likely need to rely on dividends from the Bank to pay such dividends, and there can be no guarantee that the Bank will be able to pay such dividends. Both federal and state laws impose restrictions on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends. Federal law generally prohibits the payment of a dividend by a troubled institution. Under Maryland law, a state-chartered commercial bank may pay dividends only out of undivided profits or, with the prior approval of the Commissioner, from surplus in excess of 100% of required capital stock. If however, the surplus of a Maryland bank is less than 100% of its required capital stock, cash dividends may not be paid in excess of 90% of net earnings. In addition to these specific restrictions, bank regulatory agencies have the ability to prohibit proposed dividends by a financial institution which would otherwise be permitted under applicable regulations if the regulatory body determines that such distribution would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation’s shareholders must understand that the declaration and payment of dividends and the amounts thereof are at the discretion of the Corporation’s Board of Directors. Thus, even at times when the Corporation is not prohibited from paying cash dividends on its capital securities, then neither the payment of such dividends nor the amounts thereof can be guaranteed. The Corporation’s deferral of dividend payments under its Series A Preferred Stock could permit the holders of that stock to elect up to two directors to the Corporation’s Board of Directors. The terms of the Series A Preferred Stock entitle the holders thereof to elect two directors to the Corporation’s Board of Directors if the Corporation fails to pay accrued but unpaid dividends for six quarterly periods, whether or not consecutive. As noted above, the Corporation began deferring dividend payments under the Series A Preferred Stock and, to date, has deferred two dividend payments. If the Corporation defers four more regularly scheduled dividend payments, whether or not consecutive, then the Treasury (or the then-current holder of the Series A Preferred Stock) could exercise that right and elect up to two directors. [18] The Corporation’s shares of common stock, Series A Preferred Stock, and the Warrant are not insured. The shares of the Corporation’s common stock, including the shares underlying the Warrant, its Series A Preferred Stock, and the Warrant are not deposits and are not insured against loss by the FDIC or any other governmental or private agency. There is no market for the Series A Preferred Stock or the Warrant, and the common stock is not heavily traded. There is no established trading market for the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock or the Warrant. The Corporation does not intend to apply for listing of the Series A Preferred Stock on any securities exchange or for inclusion of the Series A Preferred Stock in any automated quotation system unless requested by Treasury. The Corporation’s common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, but shares of the common stock are not heavily traded. Securities that are not heavily traded can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. Factors such as our financial results, the introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors, and various factors affecting the banking industry generally may have a significant impact on the market price of the shares the common stock. Management cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for any of the Corporation’s securities will develop or be sustained in the future. Accordingly, holders of the Corporation’s securities may not be able to sell such securities at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. The Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and Maryland law may discourage a corporate takeover. The Corporation’s Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws, as amended, contain certain provisions designed to enhance the ability of the Corporation’s Board of Directors to deal with attempts to acquire control of the Corporation. First, the Board of Directors is classified into three classes. Directors of each class serve for staggered three-year periods, and no director may be removed except for cause, and then only by the affirmative vote of either a majority of the entire Board of Directors or a majority of the outstanding voting stock. Second, the Board has the authority to classify and reclassify unissued shares of stock of any class or series of stock by setting, fixing, eliminating, or altering in any one or more respects the preferences, rights, voting powers, restrictions and qualifications of, dividends on, and redemption, conversion, exchange, and other rights of, such securities. The Board could use this authority, along with its authority to authorize the issuance of securities of any class or series, to issue shares having terms favorable to management to a person or persons affiliated with or otherwise friendly to management. In addition, the Bylaws require any shareholder who desires to nominate a director to abide by strict notice requirements. Maryland law also contains anti-takeover provisions that apply to the Corporation. Maryland’s Business Combination Act generally prohibits, subject to certain limited exceptions, corporations from being involved in any “business combination” (defined as a variety of transactions, including a merger, consolidation, share exchange, asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities) with any “interested shareholder” for a period of five years following the most recent date on which the interested shareholder became an interested shareholder. An interested shareholder is defined generally as a person who is the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation after the date on which the corporation had 100 or more beneficial owners of its stock or who is an affiliate or associate of the corporation and was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% percent or more of the voting power of the then outstanding stock of the corporation at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question and after the date on which the corporation had 100 or more beneficial owners of its stock. Maryland’s Control Share Acquisition Act applies to acquisitions of “control shares”, which, subject to certain exceptions, are shares the acquisition of which entitle the holder, directly or indirectly, to exercise or direct the exercise of the voting power of shares of stock of the corporation in the election of directors within any of the following ranges of voting power: one-tenth or more, but less than one-third of all voting power; one-third or more, but less than a majority of all voting power or a majority or more of all voting power. Control shares have limited voting rights. Although these provisions do not preclude a takeover, they may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or deferring a tender offer or takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider in his or her best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the common stock. Such provisions will also render the removal of the Board of Directors and of management more difficult and, therefore, may serve to perpetuate current management. These provisions could potentially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. [19] 