ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our financial condition and results of operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties and could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks and uncertainties. The risks and uncertainties that we believe are the most significant are discussed below. You should carefully consider these risks before making an investment decision with respect to any of the Corporation’s securities. This annual report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this report. Risks Relating to the Corporation and its Affiliates The Corporation’s future depends on the successful growth of its subsidiaries. The Corporation’s primary business activity for the foreseeable future will be to act as the holding company of the Bank and its other direct and indirect subsidiaries. Therefore, the Corporation’s future profitability will depend on the success and growth of these subsidiaries. In the future, part of the Corporation’s growth may come from buying other banks and buying or establishing other companies. Such entities may not be profitable after they are purchased or established, and they may lose money, particularly at first. A new bank or company may bring with it unexpected liabilities, bad loans, or bad employee relations, or the new bank or company may lose customers. Interest rates and other economic conditions will impact our results of operations. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including declines in real estate values, rapid changes in interest rates and the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. Our profitability is in part a function of the spread between the interest rates earned on assets and the interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities (i.e., net interest income), including advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank (the “FHLB”) of Atlanta. Interest rate risk arises from mismatches (i.e., the interest sensitivity gap) between the dollar amount of repricing or maturing assets and liabilities and is measured in terms of the ratio of the interest rate sensitivity gap to total assets. More assets repricing or maturing than liabilities over a given time period is considered asset-sensitive and is reflected as a positive gap, and more liabilities repricing or maturing than assets over a given time period is considered liability-sensitive and is reflected as negative gap. An asset-sensitive position (i.e., a positive gap) could enhance earnings in a rising interest rate environment and could negatively impact earnings in a falling interest rate environment, while a liability-sensitive position (i.e., a negative gap) could enhance earnings in a falling interest rate environment and negatively impact earnings in a rising interest rate environment. Fluctuations in interest rates are not predictable or controllable. There can be no assurance that our attempts to structure our asset and liability management strategies to mitigate the impact on net interest income of changes in market interest rates will be successful in the event of such changes. The majority of our business is concentrated in Maryland and West Virginia; a significant amount of our business is concentrated in real estate lending. Most of our loans are made to Western Maryland and Northeastern West Virginia borrowers, and many of these loans are secured by real estate, including construction and land development loans. Accordingly, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose loan portfolios are geographically diverse. Moreover, the national and local economies have significantly weakened during the past two years in part due to the widely-reported problems in the sub-prime mortgage loan market. As a result, real estate values across the country, including in our market areas, have decreased and the general availability of credit, especially credit to be secured by real estate, has also decreased. These conditions have made it more difficult for real estate owners and owners of loans secured by real estate to sell their assets at the times and at the prices they desire. In addition, these conditions have increased the risk that the market values of the real estate securing our loans may deteriorate, which could cause us to lose money in the event a borrower fails to repay a loan and we are forced to foreclose on the property. There can be no guarantee as to when or whether economic conditions will improve. [11] Additionally, the FRB and the FDIC, along with the other federal banking regulators, issued final guidance on December 6, 2006 entitled “Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending, Sound Risk Management Practices” directed at institutions that have particularly high concentrations of commercial real estate loans within their lending portfolios. This guidance suggests that institutions whose commercial real estate loans exceed certain percentages of capital should implement heightened risk management practices appropriate to their concentration risk and may be required to maintain higher capital ratios than institutions with lower concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Based on our commercial real estate concentration as of December 31, 2008, we may be subject to further supervisory analysis during future examinations. We cannot guarantee that any risk management practices we implement will be effective to prevent losses relating to our commercial real estate portfolio. Management cannot predict the extent to which this guidance will impact our operations or capital requirements. The Bank may experience loan losses in excess of its allowance. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management of the Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for specific loans when their ultimate collectability is considered questionable. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require us to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of its examination process, our earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. Although management continually monitors our loan portfolio and makes determinations with respect to the allowance for loan losses, future adjustments may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used or adverse developments arise with respect to our non-performing or performing loans. Material additions to the allowance for loan losses could result in a material decrease in our net income and capital, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The market value of our investments could decline. As of December 31, 2008, we had classified 100% of our investment securities as available-for-sale pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 115 relating to accounting for investments. SFAS No. 115 requires that unrealized gains and losses in the estimated value of the available-for-sale portfolio be “marked to market” and reflected as a separate item in shareholders’ equity (net of tax) as accumulated other comprehensive income. There can be no assurance that future market performance of our investment portfolio will enable us to realize income from sales of securities. Shareholders’ equity will continue to reflect the unrealized gains and losses (net of tax) of these investments. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the market value of our investment portfolio will not decline, causing a corresponding decline in shareholders’ equity. Our investments include stock issued by the FHLB of Atlanta. As a member of the FHLB of Atlanta, we are required to purchase stock of that bank based on how much we borrow from it and the quality of the collateral that we pledge to secure that borrowing. In recent months, the banking industry has become concerned about the financial strength of the banks in the FHLB system, and some FHLB banks have stopped paying dividends on and redeeming FLHB stock. On January 30, 2009, the FHLB of Atlanta announced that it was deferring the declaration of a dividend on its stock for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 until it completes its year-end analysis of other-than-temporary impairment which is critical to its net income determination. The FHLB of Atlanta stated that it anticipates a decision regarding the dividend to be made in March 2009. Accordingly, there can be no guaranty that the FHLB of Atlanta will declare a dividend on its stock for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 or for any future quarter. [12] Management believes that several factors will affect the market values of our investment portfolio. These include, but are not limited to, changes in interest rates or expectations of changes, the degree of volatility in the securities markets, inflation rates or expectations of inflation and the slope of the interest rate yield curve (the yield curve refers to the differences between shorter-term and longer-term interest rates; a positively sloped yield curve means shorter-term rates are lower than longer-term rates). Also, the passage of time will affect the market values of our investment securities, in that the closer they are to maturing, the closer the market price should be to par value. These and other factors may impact specific categories of the portfolio differently, and management cannot predict the effect these factors may have on any specific category. We operate in a competitive environment. We operate in a competitive environment, competing for loans, deposits, and customers with commercial banks, savings associations and other financial entities. Competition for deposits comes primarily from other commercial banks, savings associations, credit unions, money market and mutual funds and other investment alternatives. Competition for loans comes primarily from other commercial banks, savings associations, mortgage banking firms, credit unions and other financial intermediaries. Competition for other products, such as insurance and securities products, comes from other banks, securities and brokerage companies, insurance companies, insurance agents and brokers, and other non-bank financial service providers in our market area. Many of these competitors are much larger in terms of total assets and capitalization, have greater access to capital markets, and/or offer a broader range of financial services than those that we offer. In addition, banks with a larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the needs of larger customers. In addition, current banking laws facilitate interstate branching, merger activity among banks, and expanded activities. Since September 1995, certain bank holding companies have been authorized to acquire banks throughout the United States. Since June 1, 1997, certain banks have been permitted to merge with banks organized under the laws of different states. As a result, interstate banking is now an accepted element of competition in the banking industry and the Corporation may be brought into competition with institutions with which it does not presently compete. Moreover, the GLB Act revised the BHC Act in 2000 and repealed the affiliation provisions of the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933, which, taken together, limited the securities, insurance and other non-banking activities of any company that controls an FDIC insured financial institution. These laws may increase the competition we face in our market areas in the future, although management cannot predict the degree to which such competition will impact our financial conditions or results of operations. The banking industry is heavily regulated; significant regulatory changes could adversely affect our operations. Our operations will be impacted by current and future legislation and by the policies established from time to time by various federal and state regulatory authorities. The Corporation is subject to supervision by the FRB. The Bank is subject to supervision and periodic examination by the Maryland Commissioner of Financial Regulation, the West Virginia Division of Banking, and the FDIC. Banking regulations, designed primarily for the safety of depositors, may limit a financial institution’s growth and the return to its investors by restricting such activities as the payment of dividends, mergers with or acquisitions by other institutions, investments, loans and interest rates, interest rates paid on deposits, expansion of branch offices, and the offering of securities or trust services. The Corporation and the Bank are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by federal law and could be subject to enforcement actions to the extent that either is found by regulatory examiners to be undercapitalized. It is not possible to predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that such changes may have on our future business and earnings prospects. Management also cannot predict the nature or the extent of the effect on our business and earnings of future fiscal or monetary policies, economic controls, or new federal or state legislation. Further, the cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Our regulatory expenses will likely increase due to the enactment of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act and related government programs. Among other things, the EESA included a provision to increase the amount of deposits insured by FDIC to $250,000. The TLGP provides, until December 31, 2009, unlimited deposit insurance on funds in non-interest-bearing transaction deposit accounts and certain IOLTAs and NOW accounts not otherwise covered by the existing deposit insurance limit of $250,000, as well as a 100% guarantee of the newly issued senior debt of all FDIC-insured institutions and their holding companies issued between October 14, 2008 and June 30, 2009. All eligible institutions will be covered under the TLGP for the first 30 days without incurring any costs. After the initial period, participating institutions will be assessed a charge of 10 basis points per annum for the additional insured deposits and a charge of 75 basis points per annum for guaranteed senior unsecured debt. We elected to participate in both portions of the TLGP, so we expect to incur additional regulatory fees associated with our participation. [13] Customer concern about deposit insurance may cause a decrease in deposits held at the Bank. With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits from the Bank in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with us is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs and net income. Our funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits and support our future growth. We rely on customer deposits, advances from the FHLB, lines of credit at other financial institutions and brokered funds to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, no assurance can be given that we would be able to replace such funds in the future if our financial condition or the financial condition of the FHLB or market conditions were to change. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained and/or our cost of funds will increase if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if financing necessary to accommodate future growth is not available at favorable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our profitability would be adversely affected. The loss of key personnel could disrupt our operations and result in reduced earnings. Our growth and profitability will depend upon our ability to attract and retain skilled managerial, marketing and technical personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Our current executive officers provide valuable services based on their many years of experience and in-depth knowledge of the banking industry. Due to the intense competition for financial professionals, these key personnel would be difficult to replace and an unexpected loss of their services could result in a disruption to the continuity of operations and a possible reduction in earnings. We may lose key personnel because of our participation in the Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program. On January 30, 2009, we participated in the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) Capital Purchase Program (the “CPP”) adopted by the U.S. Department of Treasury (“Treasury”) by selling $30 million in shares of our Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (the “Series A Preferred Stock”) to Treasury and issuing a 10-year common stock purchase warrant (the “Warrant”) to Treasury. As part of these transactions, we adopted Treasury’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which Treasury holds any shares of the Series A Preferred Stock and/or any shares of common stock that may be acquired upon exercise of the Warrant. On February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “Recovery Act”) was signed into law, which, among other things, imposes additional executive compensation restrictions on institutions that participate in TARP for so long as any TARP assistance remains outstanding. Among these restrictions is a prohibition against making most severance payments to our “senior executive officers”, which term includes our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and, generally, the three next most highly compensated executive officers, and to the next five most highly compensated employees. The restrictions also limit the type, timing and amount of bonuses, retention awards and incentive compensation that may be paid to certain employees. These restrictions, coupled with the competition we face from other institutions, including institutions that do not participate in TARP, may make it more difficult for us to attract and/or retain exceptional key employees. Our lending activities subject us to the risk of environmental liabilities. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. [14] We may be adversely affected by other recent legislation. As discussed above, the GLB Act repealed restrictions on banks affiliating with securities firms and it also permitted bank holding companies that become financial holding companies to engage in additional financial activities, including insurance and securities underwriting and agency activities, merchant banking, and insurance company portfolio investment activities that are currently not permitted for bank holding companies. Although the Corporation is a financial holding company, this law may increase the competition we face from larger banks and other companies. It is not possible to predict the full effect that this law will have on us. The federal Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management of publicly traded companies to perform an annual assessment of their internal controls over financial reporting and to report on whether the system is effective as of the end of the Company’s fiscal year. Disclosure of significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal controls could cause an unfavorable impact to shareholder value by affecting the market value of our stock. The federal USA PATRIOT Act requires certain financial institutions, such as the Bank, to maintain and prepare additional records and reports that are designed to assist the government’s efforts to combat terrorism. This law includes sweeping anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and required additional regulations, including, among other things, standards for verifying client identification when opening an account and rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. If we fail to comply with this law, we could be exposed to adverse publicity as well as fines and penalties assessed by regulatory agencies. We may be subject to claims and the costs of defensive actions. Our customers may sue us for losses due to alleged breaches of fiduciary duties, errors and omissions of employees, officers and agents, incomplete documentation, our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or many other reasons. Also, our employees may knowingly or unknowingly violate laws and regulations. Management may not be aware of any violations until after their occurrence. This lack of knowledge may not insulate us from liability. Claims and legal actions may result in legal expenses and liabilities that may reduce our profitability and hurt our financial condition. We may not be able to keep pace with developments in technology. We use various technologies in conducting our businesses, including telecommunication, data processing, computers, automation, internet-based banking, and debit cards. Technology changes rapidly. Our ability to compete successfully with other financial institutions may depend on whether we can exploit technological changes. We may not be able to exploit technological changes, and any investment we do make may not make us more profitable. Risks Relating to the Corporation’s Securities The Corporation’s shares of common stock, Series A Preferred Stock, and the Warrant are not insured. The shares of the Series A Preferred Stock, the warrant, and the shares of common stock for which the warrant may be exercised are not deposits and are not insured against loss by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other governmental or private agency. The Corporation’s ability to pay dividends is limited by applicable banking and corporate law. The Corporation’s ability to pay dividends to shareholders is largely dependent upon the receipt of dividends from the Bank. Both federal and state laws impose restrictions on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends. Federal law generally prohibits the payment of a dividend by a troubled institution. Under Maryland law, a state-chartered commercial bank may pay dividends only out of undivided profits or, with the prior approval of the Commissioner, from surplus in excess of 100% of required capital stock. If however, the surplus of a Maryland bank is less than 100% of its required capital stock, cash dividends may not be paid in excess of 90% of net earnings. In addition to these specific restrictions, bank regulatory agencies also have the ability to prohibit proposed dividends by a financial institution which would otherwise be permitted under applicable regulations if the regulatory body determines that such distribution would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Because of these limitations, there can be no guarantee that we will declare dividends in any fiscal quarter. [15] Because of the Corporation’s participation in TARP, it is subject to several restrictions relating to shares of its capital stock, including restrictions on its ability to declare or pay dividends on and repurchase its shares. As stated above, the Corporation recently issued 30,000 shares of the Series A Preferred Stock and the Warrant to purchase 326,323 shares of common stock. Under the terms of the transaction documents, the Corporation’s ability to declare or pay dividends on shares of its capital stock is limited. Specifically, the Corporation is unable to declare dividends on common stock, other stock ranking junior to the Series A Preferred Stock (“Junior Stock”), or preferred stock ranking on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock (“Parity Stock”) if the Corporation is in arrears on the dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. Further, the Corporation is not permitted to increase dividends on its common stock above the amount of the last quarterly cash dividend per share declared prior to October 14, 2008 without Treasury’s approval until January 30, 2012 unless all of the Series A Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred. In addition, the Corporation’s ability to repurchase its capital stock is restricted. Treasury’s consent generally is required for the Corporation to make any stock repurchase until January 30, 2012 unless all of the Series A Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred. Further, shares of common stock, Junior Stock or Parity Stock may not be repurchased if the Corporation is in arrears on the Series A Preferred Stock dividends. The Corporation’s ability to pay dividends on its securities is also subject to the terms of its outstanding debentures. In March 2004, the Corporation issued approximately $30.9 million of junior subordinated debentures to First United Statutory Trust I and First United Statutory Trust II (the “Trusts”). The Trusts are Connecticut statutory business trusts, with all outstanding common stock owned by the Corporation, that issued mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities to third party investors. In December 2004, the Corporation issued an additional $5.0 million of debentures. The terms of the debentures require the Corporation to make quarterly payments of interest to the holders of the debentures, although the Corporation has the ability to defer payments of interest for up to 20 consecutive quarterly periods. Should the Corporation make such a deferral election, however, it would be prohibited from paying dividends or distributions on, or from repurchasing, redeeming or otherwise acquiring any shares of its capital stock, including the common stock and the Series A Preferred Stock. Although the Corporation has no present intention of deferring payments of interest on its debentures, there can be no assurance that the Corporation will not elect to do so in the future. There is no market for the Series A Preferred Stock or the Warrant, and the common stock is not heavily traded. There is no established trading market for the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock or the Warrant. The Corporation does not intend to apply for listing of the Series A Preferred Stock on any securities exchange or for inclusion of the Series A Preferred Stock in any automated quotation system unless requested by Treasury. The Corporation’s common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, but shares of the common stock are not heavily traded. Securities that are not heavily traded can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. Factors such as our financial results, the introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors, and various factors affecting the banking industry generally may have a significant impact on the market price of the shares the common stock. Management cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for any of the Corporation’s securities will develop or be sustained in the future. Accordingly, holders of the Corporation’s securities may not be able to sell such securities at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. The Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and Maryland law may discourage a corporate takeover. The Corporation’s Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws, as amended, contain certain provisions designed to enhance the ability of the Corporation’s Board of Directors to deal with attempts to acquire control of the Corporation. First, the Board of Directors is classified into three classes. Directors of each class serve for staggered three-year periods, and no director may be removed except for cause, and then only by the affirmative vote of either a majority of the entire Board of Directors or a majority of the outstanding voting stock. Second, the Board has the authority to classify and reclassify unissued shares of stock of any class or series of stock by setting, fixing, eliminating, or altering in any one or more respects the preferences, rights, voting powers, restrictions and qualifications of, dividends on, and redemption, conversion, exchange, and other rights of, such securities. The Board could use this authority, along with its authority to authorize the issuance of securities of any class or series, to issue shares having terms favorable to management to a person or persons affiliated with or otherwise friendly to management. In addition, the Bylaws require any shareholder who desires to nominate a director to abide by strict notice requirements. [16] Maryland law also contains anti-takeover provisions that apply to the Corporation. Maryland’s Business Combination Act generally prohibits, subject to certain limited exceptions, corporations from being involved in any “business combination” (defined as a variety of transactions, including a merger, consolidation, share exchange, asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities) with any “interested shareholder” for a period of five years following the most recent date on which the interested shareholder became an interested shareholder. An interested shareholder is defined generally as a person who is the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation after the date on which the corporation had 100 or more beneficial owners of its stock or who is an affiliate or associate of the corporation and was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% percent or more of the voting power of the then outstanding stock of the corporation at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question and after the date on which the corporation had 100 or more beneficial owners of its stock. Maryland’s Control Share Acquisition Act applies to acquisitions of “control shares”, which, subject to certain exceptions, are shares the acquisition of which entitle the holder, directly or indirectly, to exercise or direct the exercise of the voting power of shares of stock of the corporation in the election of directors within any of the following ranges of voting power: one-tenth or more, but less than one-third of all voting power; one-third or more, but less than a majority of all voting power or a majority or more of all voting power. Control shares have limited voting rights. Although these provisions do not preclude a takeover, they may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or deferring a tender offer or takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider in his or her best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the common stock. Such provisions will also render the removal of the Board of Directors and of management more difficult and, therefore, may serve to perpetuate current management. These provisions could potentially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 