ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Corporation faces a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent to our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal and regulatory risks. The following are some of the more important factors that could affect our businesses. Weakness in the economy and in the real estate market in the geographic footprint of Popular has adversely impacted and may continue to adversely impact Popular. A significant portion of our financial activities and credit exposure is concentrated in Puerto Rico (the “Island”) and the Island’s economy has been deteriorating. This decline in the Island’s economy has resulted in, among other things, a downturn in our loan originations, an increase in the level of our non-performing assets and loan loss provisions, particularly in our construction loan portfolio, an increase in the rate of foreclosure loss on mortgage loans and a reduction in the value of our loans and loan servicing portfolio, all of which have adversely affected our profitability. If the decline in economic activity continues, there could be further adverse effects on our profitability. The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico government is currently facing a fiscal deficit which has been estimated at approximately $3.0 billion or over 30% of its annual budget. It is currently reviewing alternatives for reducing the deficit, as its access to the municipal bond market and its credit ratings depend, in part, on achieving a balanced budget. Measures that the government may implement could include reducing expenses, including public-sector employment. Since the government is an important source of employment on the Island, theses measures could have the effect of intensifying the current recessionary cycle. The economy of Puerto Rico is sensitive to the price of oil in the global market. The Island does not have significant mass transit available to the public and most of its electricity is powered by oil, making it highly sensitive to fluctuations in oil prices. A substantial increase in its price could impact adversely the economy of Puerto Rico, by reducing disposable income and increasing the operating costs of most businesses and government. Consumer spending is particularly sensitive to wide fluctuations in oil prices. The level of real estate prices in Puerto Rico has been more stable than in other U.S. markets, but the current economic environment and future developments in Puerto Rico and the mainland U.S. could further pressure residential property values. Lower real estate values could increase loan delinquencies, foreclosures and the cost of repossessing and disposing of real estate collateral. The current state of the economy and uncertainty in the private and public sectors has had an adverse effect on the credit quality of our loan portfolios. The continuation of the economic slowdown would cause those adverse effects to continue, as delinquency rates may increase in the short-term, until 23 Table of Contents sustainable growth resumes. Also, a potential reduction in consumer spending may also impact growth in our other interest and non-interest revenue sources. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 18 months. In recent months, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. The markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for almost all issuers, often without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the Corporation will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on its ability to access capital and on its business, financial condition and results of operations. High levels of market volatility could impact adversely the pricing of the Corporation’s assets. As part of our business, the Corporation sells financial assets in the capital markets to raise liquidity and manage its risk position. High amounts of volatility increase the probability that assets may be disposed of at a loss or at a lower gain than anticipated. Also, part of the valuation of the Corporation’s financial assets is recognized in its financial statements and as market conditions become more volatile, its earnings and capital could be adversely impacted. The Corporation raises part of its liquidity in the capital markets. When market conditions are unsettled, providers of liquidity become more risk averse and less willing to assume risk with counterparties. Thereby, periods of high market volatility could make it more difficult and more costly to raise financing, impacting our financial results. Current market developments have adversely affected the Corporation’s industry, business and results of operations. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks, and also in sales of those assets at significantly discounted prices. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers including other financial institutions. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The decline in housing prices in the U.S. has affected the Corporation’s credit costs substantially as delinquencies, and foreclosures have increased, together with the costs related to these. Losses related to the decline in housing values have increased at the Corporation due to credit losses and losses in the sale of foreclosed assets. The Corporation still have loan portfolios exposed to the U.S. housing sector and most market participants expect the housing sector to remain under pressure until after the end of 2009. Recent market developments have changed the way in which the Corporation finance its operations and have impacted its funding flexibility. The availability of borrowed funds, particularly short-term funds, has decreased substantially and its cost has risen markedly. The Corporation has reduced the amount of funds it borrows in favor of increasing deposits and longer-term sources of capital such as senior debt and preferred stock. Future developments may reduce funding options available to the Corporation and may increase the cost of raising financing. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Corporation. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Corporation has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and it routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, 24 Table of Contents commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Corporation to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, the Corporation credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by it cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to the Corporation. There can be no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect its results of operations or earnings. The Corporation has procedures in place to mitigate the impact of a default among its counterparties. The Corporation requests collateral for most credit exposures with other financial institutions and monitor these on a regular basis. Nonetheless, market volatility could impact the valuation of collateral held by the Corporation and results in losses. The Corporation’s ability to raise financing is dependent in part on market confidence. In times when market confidence is affected by events related to well-known financial institutions, risk aversion among participants increases substantially and makes it more difficult to borrow in the credit markets. A prolonged economic slowdown, a continuing decline in the real estate market in the U.S. mainland, and ongoing disruptions in the capital markets have harmed and could continue to harm the results of operations of Popular, Inc. The residential mortgage loan origination business has historically been cyclical, enjoying periods of strong growth and profitability followed by periods of shrinking volumes and industry-wide losses. “Bust” cycles in the housing sector affect the Corporation’s business by decreasing the volume of loans originated and increasing the level of credit losses related to its mortgage loans. The housing market in the U.S. is undergoing a correction of historic proportions. After a period of many years of booming housing markets, fueled by liberal credit conditions and rapidly rising property values, since early 2007 the sector has been in the midst of a substantial dislocation. This dislocation has had a significant impact on some of the Corporation’s U.S.-based business segments and has affected its ongoing financial results and condition. The general level of property values in the U.S., as measured by several indices widely followed by the market, has declined significantly. These declines are the result of ongoing market adjustments that are aligning property values with income levels and home inventories. The supply of homes in the market has increased substantially, and additional property value decreases may be required to clear the overhang of excess inventory in the U.S. market. Declining property values could impact the credit quality of the Corporation’s U.S. mortgage loan portfolio because the value of the homes underlying the loans is a primary source of repayment in the event of foreclosure. In the event of foreclosure in a loan from this portfolio, the current market value of the underlying collateral could be insufficient to cover the loan amount owed. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses harms the Corporation’s ability to sell loans, the prices it receives for loans sold, and the values of its mortgage loans held-for-sale. In addition, any material decline in real estate values would weaken the Corporation’s collateral loan-to-value ratios and increase the possibility of loss if a borrower defaults. In such event, the Corporation will be subject to the risk of loss on such mortgage assets arising from borrower defaults. The Corporation maintains exposure in its U.S. loan portfolio to the housing sector. As of December 31, 2008, the Corporation had $4.6 billion in residential mortgage loans in portfolio, of which $1.7 billion was located in the continental U.S. Further housing value declines in the U.S. could impact the level of losses in this portfolio. Also, the Corporation has exposure to individuals in the form of home equity loans (home equity lines of credit or “HELOCs”), which because of declining home values have become in effect unsecured consumer loans. This portfolio is sensitive to the economic cycle in the U.S., and a further deterioration of the economy and employment conditions in the mainland could affect the level of losses from this exposure. As of December 31, 2008 the Corporation had $573 million in HELOCs. 25 Table of Contents Financial results are constantly exposed to market risk. Market risk refers to the probability of variations in the net interest income or the market value of assets and liabilities due to interest rate volatility. Despite the varied nature of market risks, the primary source of this risk to us is the impact of changes in interest rates on net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the revenue generated on earning assets and the interest cost of funding those assets. Depending on the duration and repricing characteristics of the assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items, changes in interest rates could either increase or decrease the level of net interest income. For any given period, the pricing structure of the assets and liabilities is matched when an equal amount of such assets and liabilities mature or reprice in that period. Any mismatch of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities is known as a gap position. A positive gap denotes asset sensitivity, which means that an increase in interest rates could have a positive effect on net interest income, while a decrease in interest rates could have a negative effect on net interest income. As of December 31, 2008, the Corporation had a positive gap position. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve lowered the federal funds target rate between 400 and 425 basis points from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve has also expressed concerns about a variety of economic conditions, as well as possible further reductions of interest rates in future periods. Many of the Corporation’s commercial loans are variable-rate and, accordingly, rate decreases may result in lower interest income to Popular in the near term; however, depositors will continue to expect reasonable rates of interest on their accounts, potentially compressing net interest margins further. The future outlook on interest rates and their impact on Popular’s interest income, interest expense and net interest income is uncertain. The Corporation usually runs its net interest income simulations under interest rate scenarios in which the yield curve is assumed to rise and decline gradually by the same amount, usually 200 basis points. Given the fact that as of year-end 2008, some short-term rates were close to zero and some term interest rates were below 2.0%, management has decided to focus measuring the risk of net interest income in rising rate scenarios. The rising rate scenarios used were gradual parallel changes of 200 and 400 basis points during the twelve-month period ending December 31, 2009. Projected net interest income under the 200 basis points scenario rising rate scenario increased by $50.9 million while the 400 basis points simulation increased by $90.8 million. These scenarios were compared against the Corporation’ flat interest rates forecast. The market disruptions discussed in other sections has led the Corporation to reduce substantially its use of unsecured short-term borrowings. They have been largely replaced with deposits and longer-term secured borrowings, and to a lesser extent, longer-term unsecured debt. Therefore, the cost of the liabilities of the Corporation does not respond as quickly to changes in the levels of interest rates. The Corporation’s Asset Liability Management Committee (“ALCO”) committee regularly reviews the Corporation’s interest rate risk and initiates any action necessary to maintain its potential volatility within limits. 26 Table of Contents The hedging transactions that the Corporation enters into may not be effective in managing the exposure to market risk, including interest rate risk. The Corporation uses derivatives, to a limited extent, to manage part of the exposure to market risk caused by changes in interest rates or basis risk. The derivative instruments that the Corporation may utilize also have their own risks, which include: (1) basis risk, which is the risk of loss associated with variations in the spread between the asset yield and funding and/or hedge cost; (2) credit or default risk, which is the risk of insolvency or other inability of the counterparty to a particular transaction to perform its obligations there under; and (3) legal risk, which is the risk that the Corporation is unable to enforce certain terms of such instruments. All or any of such risks could expose the Corporation to losses. Higher market volatility in the capital markets could impact the performance of the Corporation’s hedging transactions. Most hedging activity is related to protecting the market value of mortgage loans that are segregated for future sale and derivatives positions to hedge the cost of liabilities issued or derivative positions with banking clients. Reductions in the Corporation’s credit ratings or those of any of its subsidiaries would increase the cost of borrowing funds and make the Corporation’s ability to raise new funds or renew maturing debt more difficult. Credit ratings are an important component of the Corporation’s liquidity profile. Among other factors, credit ratings are based on the financial strength, the credit quality of and concentrations in its loan portfolio, the level and volatility of earnings, capital adequacy, the quality of management, the liquidity of its balance sheet, the availability of a significant base of core retail and commercial deposits, and the ability to access a broad array of wholesale funding sources. In February 2009, Moody’s Investor Service (“Moody’s”) downgraded by one notch to “Baa1” the Corporation’s senior debt rating and by one notch its preferred stock rating to “Baa3”. The lead bank, Banco Popular, is rated “C+” for bank financial strength and “A2” for long-term deposits. The outlook is negative. Moody’s report indicated that the downgrade of Popular’s ratings was prompted by the deterioration in the Corporation’s asset quality and profitability in 2008, and the prospect of continuing weakness in these metrics in 2009. Such weakness could further undermine Popular’s ratio of tangible common equity to risk-weighted assets, which the rating agency indicated was comparatively weak. Moody’s believes that the deepening of the recession in the U.S. and the continuation of the recession in Puerto Rico, will most likely cause Popular’s asset quality indicators, and hence its profitability, to remain pressured through 2009. Fitch Ratings reduced the Corporation’s ratings in January 2009 as follows: the senior debt rating was cut two notches to “BBB”, the preferred stock rating was cut three notches to “BB+” and the short-term rating was maintained at “F2”. The outlook is negative. Fitch indicated the continued credit quality deterioration and the expectations for ongoing pressure in the real estate loan portfolios as the principal factors considered in the downgrade given recent trends in core operating performance and the difficult outlook. In January 2009, Standard and Poor’s revised the Corporation’s ratings as follows: the senior debt rating was cut by two notches to “BBB-”, the preferred stock rating was decreased by two notches to “BB” and the short-term rating was cut to “A3”. The outlook is stable. S&P indicated that the rating action resulted from several factors, including among the principal ones the Corporation’s reported net operating losses, a continued deterioration in credit quality, and an expected decline in capital ratios. S&P is also concerned by the increase in nonperforming assets and the potential for further deterioration, notably in the construction, mortgage, and commercial loan portfolios, as they see continued pressure on home prices and reduced sale activity. S&P views capital as adequate, but foresee more downward pressure in 2009. Changes in the Corporation’s credit ratings or the credit ratings of any of its subsidiaries to a level below “investment grade” would adversely affect its ability to raise funds in the capital markets and adversely affect its cost of funds and related margins and liquidity. The Corporation’s counterparties are also sensitive to the risk of a ratings downgrade. 27 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2008, the Corporation had $350 million in senior debt issued by the bank holding companies with interest that adjusts in the event of senior debt ratings downgrades. As a result of the actions taken by the ratings agencies in 2009, the cost of that debt increased by 50 basis points, which would represent an increase in the yearly interest expense of approximately $1.75 million. The senior debt ratings downgrades summarized above will make it more difficult and costly to raise unsecured senior debt in the capital market. Although the Corporation continues to be investment grade, the liquidity of the capital market for senior bank debt continues impaired for all but the most highly rated and well known financials. As previously mentioned, among the recent federal government programs announced in late 2008 to assist the banking industry, the TLGP permits bank holding companies and banks to issue senior debt under certain conditions, with a guarantee by the FDIC. In addition, the TLGP provides an FDIC guarantee on non-interest bearing transaction accounts with no limit until December 31, 2009. The Corporation has enrolled in both programs. The Corporation’s preferred stock rating is currently “non-investment” grade under two rating agencies. The market for non investment grade securities is much smaller and less liquid than for investment grade securities. Therefore, if the Corporation were to attempt to issue preferred stock in the capital markets, it is possible that there not be sufficient demand to complete a transaction and the cost could be substantially higher than for more highly rated securities. Popular’s ability to compete successfully in the marketplace for deposits depends on various factors, including service, convenience and financial stability as reflected by the operating results and credit ratings by nationally recognized credit agencies. Our ratings are subject to change at any time at the sole discretion of the rating agencies without previous notice. A downgrade in credit ratings may impact the ability to raise deposits, but we believe that the impact should not be material. Deposits at all of the Corporation’s banking subsidiaries are federally insured (subject to limitations established by the FDIC), which together with the TLGP, is expected to mitigate the effect of a downgrade in the credit ratings. The Corporation is subject to default risk in its loan portfolio. The Corporation is subject to the risk of loss from loan defaults and foreclosures with respect to the loans originated or acquired. The Corporation establishes provisions for loan losses, which lead to reductions in the income from operations, in order to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level which is deemed appropriate by management based upon an assessment of the quality of the loan portfolio in accordance with established procedures and guidelines. This process, which is critical to the Corporation’s financial results and condition, requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic and market conditions that might impair the ability of its borrowers to repay the loans. There can be no assurance that management has accurately estimated the level of future loan losses or that the Corporation will not have to increase the provision for loan losses in the future as a result of future increases in non-performing loans or for other reasons beyond its control. The Corporation may have more credit risk and higher credit losses due to its construction and commercial loans portfolios. The Corporation has a significant portfolio in construction and commercial loans, mostly secured by commercial and residential real estate properties. Due to their nature, these loans entail a higher credit risk than consumer and residential mortgage loans, since they are larger in size, concentrate more risk in a single borrower and are generally more sensitive to economic downturns. Rapidly changing collateral values, general economic conditions and numerous other factors continue to create volatility in the housing markets and have increased the possibility that additional losses may have to be recognized with respect to the Corporation’s current nonperforming assets. Furthermore, given the current slowdown in the real estate market, the properties securing these loans may be difficult to dispose of, if foreclosed. 28 Table of Contents Increased reserves may be required due to changes in collateral valuations The performance of the loan portfolio and the collateral value backing the transactions are greatly dependent upon the condition of the real estate market in which the collateral is located. Recent economic reports indicate that real estate market values have been declining mainly due to the experienced decrease in the purchasing power of the consumers and the existing general economic conditions. A significant decline in collateral valuations for collateral dependent loans may require increases in the Corporation’s provision for loan losses, which would have an adverse effect on the future financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations. The Corporation is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and Puerto Rico banking authorities. Any change in applicable federal or Puerto Rico laws or regulations could have a substantial impact on its operations. Additional laws and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect the Corporation’s powers, authority and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties, have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe and unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies. The exercise of this regulatory discretion and power may have a negative impact on the Corporation. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect the Corporation’s profitability. The Corporation faces substantial competition in originating loans and in attracting deposits. The competition in originating loans comes principally from other U.S., Puerto Rico and foreign banks, mortgage banking companies, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and other institutional lenders and purchasers of loans. Certain of the Corporation’s competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulation that governs the Corporation’s business. In, Puerto Rico, competition is primarily from other local depository institutions and from the local operations of several global banks and major U.S. money center banks. As a group they compete in all segments of the market and present a formidable source of competition for the Corporation. Competition is particularly acute in the market for deposits, where pricing is very aggressive. In the U.S., competition is primarily from community banks operating in the Corporation’s footprint together with the national banking institutions. These include institutions with much more resources than we have and can exert substantial competitive pressure. Increased competition could require that the Corporation increase the rates offered on deposits or lower the rates charged on loans, which could adversely affect its profitability. Rating downgrades on the Government of Puerto Rico’s debt obligations could affect the value of the Corporation’s loans to the Government and its portfolio of Puerto Rico Government securities. Even though Puerto Rico’s economy is closely integrated to that of the U.S. mainland and its government and many of its instrumentalities are investment grade-rated borrowers in the U.S. capital markets, the fiscal situation of the Government of Puerto Rico has led nationally recognized rating agencies to downgrade its debt obligations. As a result of the Government’s fiscal challenges in 2006, Moodys and S&P then downgraded the rating of its obligations, but maintaining them within investment-grade levels. Since then, actions by the Government have improved the credit outlook. As of December 31, 2007, S&P rated the Government’s general obligations at BBB-, while Moodys rated them at Baa3- both in the lowest notch of investment grade. In November 2007, Moody’s upgraded the outlook of the Commonwealth’s credit ratings to “stable” 29 Table of Contents from “negative” In justifying their change in outlook, Moody’s recognized the progress the Commonwealth has made in addressing the fiscal challenges it has faced in recent years. However, in the current fiscal year, the Commonwealth is confronting a substantial deficit and is currently reviewing options to confront the problem. While Moody’s “Baa3” rating and S&P’s “BBB-minus” take into consideration Puerto Rico’s fiscal challenges — both ratings stand one notch above non-investment grade — other factors could trigger an outlook change, such as the government’s ability to implement meaningful steps to curb operating expenditures or if the decline in government revenues continues for a longer time period. Factors such as the government’s ability to implement meaningful steps to curb operating expenditures, improve managerial and budgetary controls, and eliminate the government’s reliance on operating budget loans from the Government Development Bank of Puerto Rico will be key determinants of future ratings stability. Also, the inability to agree on future fiscal year Commonwealth budgets could result in ratings pressure from the rating agencies. It is uncertain how the financial markets may react to any potential future ratings downgrade in Puerto Rico’s debt obligations. However, a deterioration in the fiscal situation with possible negative ratings implications, could adversely affect the value of Puerto Rico’s Government obligations. At December 31, 2008, the Corporation had $1.0 billion of credit facilities granted to or guaranteed by the P.R. Government and its political subdivisions, of which $215 million were uncommitted lines of credit. Of these total credit facilities granted, $943 million in loans were outstanding at December 31, 2008. A substantial portion of the Corporation’s credit exposure to the Government of Puerto Rico are either collateralized loans or obligations that have a specific source of income or revenues identified for its repayment. Some of these obligations consist of senior and subordinated loans to public corporations that obtain revenues from rates charged for services or products, such as water and electric power utilities. Public corporations have varying degrees of independence from the Central Government and many receive appropriations or other payments from it. The Corporation also has loans to various municipalities for which the good faith, credit and unlimited taxing power of the applicable municipality has been pledged to their repayment. These municipalities are required by law to levy special property taxes in such amounts as shall be required for the payment of all of its general obligation bonds and loans. Another portion of these loans consists of special obligations of various municipalities that are payable from the basic real and personal property taxes collected within such municipalities. The good faith and credit obligations of the municipalities have a first lien on the basic property taxes. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2008 the Corporation had outstanding $386 million in Obligations of Puerto Rico, States and Political Subdivisions as part of its investment portfolio. Of that total, $363 million was exposed to the creditworthiness of the P.R. Government and its municipalities. Of that portfolio, $47 million was in the form of Puerto Rico Commonwealth’s Appropriation Bonds, which are currently rated Ba1, one notch below investment grade, by Moody’s and BBB-, the lowest investment grade rating, by S&P. At December 31, 2008, the Appropriation Bonds indicated above represented approximately $3.2 million in unrealized losses in the Corporation’s portfolio of investment securities available- for- sale. The Corporation is closely monitoring the political and economic situation of the Island and evaluates the portfolio for any declines in value that management 30 Table of Contents may consider being other- than- temporary. Management has the intent and ability to hold these investments for a reasonable period of time or up to maturity for a forecasted recovery of fair value up to (or beyond) the cost of these investments. The Corporation’s share price may continue to fluctuate. Stock markets, in general, and the Corporation’s Common Stock, in particular, have over the past year experienced, and continue to experiencing, increased volatility and decreases in price. The market price of the Corporation’s Common Stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due to the market sentiment regarding its operations or business prospects, as well as to market fluctuations and decreases in price that may be unrelated to its operating performance or prospects. Increased volatility could result in a further decline in the market price of the Corporation’s Common Stock. Factors that may affect such fluctuations include the following: The market price of the Corporation’s Common Stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to a change in sentiment in the market regarding its operations or business prospects. Risk factors may include the following: • operating results that may be worse than the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • the level of the Corporation’s regulatory and common equity; • developments in its business or in the financial sector generally; • regulatory changes affecting its industry generally or its business and operations; • the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to it; • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by it or the Corporation’s competitors; • changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the markets for mortgage-related securities; and • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility. The agreements with the U.S. Treasury impose restrictions and obligations on the Corporation that limit the ability to increase dividends, repurchase Common Stock or preferred stock and access the equity capital markets. In December 2008, the Corporation issued preferred stock and a warrant to purchase its Common Stock to the Treasury as part of its TARP Capital Purchase Program. The terms of the preferred shares include, subject to certain exceptions, a restriction on paying dividends for both preferred shares equal or junior to U.S. Treasury investment and common shares unless the Corporation is current in the dividend payment to the Treasury. In addition, prior to December 5, 2011, unless we have redeemed all of the preferred stock or the Treasury has transferred all of the preferred stock to a third party, the consent of the Treasury will be required to the Corporation to, among other things, increase its Common Stock dividend or repurchase its Common Stock or other preferred stock (with certain exceptions, including the repurchase of its Common Stock to offset share dilution from equity-based employee compensation awards). The Corporation have also granted registration rights and offering facilitation rights to the Treasury pursuant to which the Corporation have agreed to lock-up periods during which it would be unable to issue equity securities. You may not receive dividends on the Common Stock. Holders of the Corporation’s Common Stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as its Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although the Corporation have historically declared cash dividends on its Common Stock, the Corporation is not required to do so, and it has reduced the amount of cash dividends payable on its Common Stock two times in recent months. Any reduction of, or a future elimination of its Common Stock dividend could adversely affect the market price of the Corporation’s Common Stock. 31 Table of Contents As previously mentioned, the Corporation’s issuance of senior preferred shares to the U.S. Treasury under the TARP Capital Purchase Program also imposes restrictions on its ability to pay dividends under certain conditions. The Corporation income tax provision and other tax liabilities may be insufficient if taxing authorities are successful in asserting tax positions that are contrary to the Corporation’s position. From time to time, the Corporation is audited by various federal, state and local authorities regarding income tax matters. Significant judgment is required to determine the Corporation’s provision for income taxes and its liabilities for federal, state, local and other taxes. The Corporation’s audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal and, in some cases, litigation process. Although the Corporation believes its approach to determining the appropriate tax treatment is supportable and in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” and FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes,” it is possible that the final tax authority will take a tax position that is materially different than that which is reflected in the Corporation’s income tax provision and other tax reserves. As each audit is conducted, adjustments, if any, are appropriately recorded in its Consolidated Financial Statements in the period determined. Such differences could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s income tax provision or benefit, or other tax reserves, in the reporting period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on the results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows for such period. Certain of the provisions contained in the Corporation’s Certificate of Incorporation have the effect of making it more difficult to change the Board of Directors, and may make the Board of Directors less responsive to stockholder control. The Corporation’s certificate of incorporation provides that the members of the Board of Directors are divided into three classes as nearly equal as possible. At each annual meeting of stockholders, one-third of the members of the Board of Directors will be elected for a three-year term, and the other directors will remain in office until their three-year terms expire. Therefore, control of the Board of Directors cannot be changed in one year, and at least two annual meetings must be held before a majority of the members of the Board of Directors can be changed. The Corporation’s certificate of incorporation also provides that a director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed by the stockholders only for cause by a vote of at least two-thirds of the combined voting power of the outstanding capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors. These provisions have the effect of making it more difficult to change the Board of Directors, and may make the Board of Directors less responsive to stockholder control. These provisions also may tend to discourage attempts by third parties to acquire the Corporation because of the additional time and expense involved and a greater possibility of failure, and, as a result, may adversely affect the price that a potential purchaser would be willing to pay for the capital stock, thereby reducing the amount a stockholder might realize in, for example, a tender offer for the Corporation’s capital stock. Goodwill impairment could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and future results of operations The Corporation performed the annual goodwill impairment evaluation for the entire organization during the third quarter of 2008 using July 31, 2008 as the annual evaluation date and performed an interim goodwill impairment assessment as of December 31, 2008 for BPNA. Based on the results of these analyses, management concluded that there was no goodwill impairment as of these dates. The fair value determination for each reporting unit performed to determine if potential goodwill impairment exists requires management to make estimates and assumptions. Critical assumptions that are used as part of these evaluations include: • selection of comparable publicly traded companies, based on nature of business, location and size; • selection of comparable acquisition and capital raising transactions; • the discount rate applied to future earnings, based on an estimate of the cost of equity; • the potential future earnings of the reporting unit; and • market growth and new business assumptions. To validate the reasonableness of the results of the annual impairment evaluation, management performed a reconciliation of the aggregate fair values determined for the reporting units to the market capitalization of the Corporation and concluded that the fair value results determined for the reporting units in the annual test were reasonable. It is possible that the assumptions and conclusions regarding the valuation of the Corporation’s reporting units could change adversely and could result in the recognition of goodwill impairment. Such impairment could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s future results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, the Corporation had approximately $606 million of goodwill remaining on its balance sheet, of which $404 million was related to BPNA. Declines in the Corporation’s market capitalization increase the risk of goodwill impairment in 2009. The Corporation’s business could suffer if it is unable to attract, retain and motivate skilled senior leaders The Corporation’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to retain key senior leaders, and competition for such senior leaders can be intense in most areas of the Corporation’s business. The executive compensation provisions of the EESA, including amendments to such provisions implemented under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, are expected to limit the types of compensation arrangements that the Corporation may enter into with its most senior leaders upon adoption of implementing standards by the Treasury. These standards, and any further legislation or regulation restricting executive compensation, could have a negative impact on the Corporation’s ability to attract and retain talented leaders in support of the Corporation’s long term strategy. 32 Table of Contents For further information of other risks faced by the Corporation please refer to the MD&A section of the Annual Report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 