ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Weakness in the economy and in the real estate market in the geographic footprint of Popular has adversely impacted and may continue to adversely impact Popular. A significant portion of the Corporation’s financial activities and credit exposure is concentrated in Puerto Rico (the “Island”) and the Island’s economy has been deteriorating. If the decline in economic activity continues, this could result in, among other things, a downturn in loan originations, an increase in the level of non-performing assets, an increase in the rate of foreclosure loss on mortgage loans and a reduction in the value of the Corporation’s loans and loan servicing portfolio, all of which would adversely affect the Corporation’s profitability. The Puerto Rico Planning Board registered a contraction of 1.4 percent for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 and projects a further decline of 1.8 percent for the current fiscal year ending June 30, 2008. 23 Table of Contents The current state of the economy and uncertainty in the private and public sectors has had an adverse effect on the credit quality of the Corporation’s loan portfolios. The continuation of the economic slowdown could cause those adverse effects to continue, as delinquency rates may increase in the short-term, until more sustainable growth resumes. Also, a potential reduction in consumer spending may also impact growth in other interest and non interest revenue sources of the Corporation. A prolonged economic slowdown, a continuing decline in the real estate market in the U.S. mainland, and ongoing disruptions in the capital markets have harmed and could continue to harm the results of operations of PFH, one of the Corporation’s business segments. The residential mortgage loan origination business has historically been cyclical, enjoying periods of strong growth and profitability followed by periods of shrinking volumes and industry-wide losses. “Bust” cycles in the housing sector affect our business by decreasing the volume of loans originated and increasing the level of credit losses related to our mortgage loans. 24 Table of Contents The housing market in the U.S. is undergoing a correction of historic proportions. After a period of several years of booming housing markets, fueled by liberal credit conditions and rapidly rising property values, since early 2007, the sector has been in the midst of a substantial dislocation, since 2007. It has had a significant impact on some of the Corporation’s U.S-based business sectors and has the potential to affect its ongoing financial results and condition. The general level of property values in the U.S., as measured by several indices widely followed by the market, has declined. These declines are the result of ongoing market adjustments that are aligning property values with income levels and home inventories. The supply of homes in the market has increased substantially, and additional property value decreases may be required to clear the overhang of excess inventory in the U.S. market. Declining property values could impact the credit quality of the Corporation’s U.S. mortgage loan portfolio because the value of the homes underlying the loans is a primary source of repayment in the event of foreclosure. It is possible that in the event of foreclosure in a loan from this portfolio, the current market value of the underlying collateral is insufficient to cover the loan amount owed. The exposure of the Corporation’s loan portfolio to the 1-4 family residential mortgage sector in the U.S. has declined. As of December 31, 2007, mortgage loans collateralized by 1-4 family residential property in the continental U.S. amounted to $4.7 billion, as compared to $9.2 billion as of December 31, 2006. This represents a decrease of $4.5 billion, or 49%. As of year-end 2007, $2.4 billion in 1-4 family residential mortgage loans in the U.S. were at PFH and $2.3 billion at BPNA. The Corporation has made loans to borrowers that had FICO scores 660 or below through its subsidiary PFH. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 75% of PFH’s mortgage loan portfolio of $1 billion was subprime, meaning that it had a credit score per loan of 660 or below. This profile of borrower has been particularly affected by the current housing environment. Even though the Corporation has exited this business segment, the rates of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on the remaining loans in portfolio could continue rising in the current environment. Rising unemployment, higher interest rates on mortgage loans, declines in housing prices and an overall tightening of credit standards by lenders tend to have a greater negative effect on the ability of such borrowers to repay their mortgage loans. An additional risk factor related to the residential mortgage loan sector is the repricing of adjustable rate mortgage loans (“ARMs”). Of the subprime mortgage loans held-in-portfolio at PFH as of year-end 2007, $320 million or 32% were ARMs. These loans typically have a low fixed rate for an initial period (two or three years) and afterwards the rate “floats” or adjusts periodically based on a market rate of interest, such as LIBOR. Many of the ARMs currently outstanding are schedule to reset before the end of 2008. It is possible that in some of these loans, when rates adjust, there will be a substantial increase in the underlying loan payment, possibly enough to pressure the cash flow of the underlying debtor and increase the likehood of delinquency. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could harm the Corporation’s ability to sell loans, the prices it receives for its loans, the values of its mortgage loans held-for-sale or its residual interests in securitizations, which could harm the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any material decline in real estate values would weaken the Corporation’s collateral loan-to-value ratios and increase the possibility of loss if a borrower defaults. In such event, the Corporation will be subject to the risk of loss on such mortgage assets arising from borrower defaults, to the extent not covered by third-party credit enhancement. Refer to the Management’s Discussion and Analysis in this Form 10-K for further information on PFH’s credit exposure associated with its subprime mortgage loan portfolio and the Restructuring Plan executed in 2007, which has reduced the Corporation’s exposure in this industry sector. A prolonged economic downturn or recession would likely result in an increase in delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures and in a reduction of the loan origination activity which would adversely affect the Corporation’s financial results. A period of reduced economic growth or a recession has historically resulted in a reduction in lending activity and an increase in the rate of defaults in commercial loans, consumer loans and residential 25 Table of Contents mortgages. A recession may have a significant adverse impact on the net interest income and fee income. The Corporation may also experience significant losses on the loan portfolio due to a higher level of defaults on commercial loans, consumer loans and residential mortgages. Financial results are constantly exposed to market risk. Market risk refers to the probability of variations in the net interest income or the market value of assets and liabilities due to interest rate volatility. Despite the varied nature of market risks, the primary source of this risk to the Corporation is the impact of changes in interest rates on net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the revenue generated on earning assets and the interest cost of funding those assets. Depending on the duration and repricing characteristics of the assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items, changes in interest rates could either increase or decrease the level of net interest income. For any given period, the pricing structure of the assets and liabilities is matched when an equal amount of such assets and liabilities mature or reprice in that period. Any mismatch of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities is known as a gap position. A positive gap denotes asset sensitivity, which means that an increase in interest rates could have a positive effect on net interest income, while a decrease in interest rates could have a negative effect on net interest income. The Corporation is subject to interest rate risk because of the following factors: • Assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different times. For example, if assets reprice slower than liabilities and interest rates are generally rising, earnings may initially decline. • Assets and liabilities may reprice at the same time but by different amounts. For example, when the general level of interest rates is rising, we may increase rates charged on loans by an amount that is less than the general increase in market interest rates because of intense pricing competition. Also, basis risk occurs when assets and liabilities have similar repricing frequencies but are tied to different market interest rate indices that may not move in tandem. • Short-term and long-term market interest rates may change by different amounts, i.e., the shape of the yield curve may affect new loan yields and funding costs differently. • The remaining maturity of various assets and liabilities may shorten or lengthen as interest rates change. For example, if long-term mortgage interest rates decline sharply, mortgage-backed securities held in the securities available-for-sale portfolio may prepay significantly earlier than anticipated, which could reduce portfolio income. If prepayment rates increase, the Corporation would be required to amortize net premiums into income over a shorter period of time, thereby reducing the corresponding asset yield and net interest income. Prepayment risk also has a significant impact on mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations, since prepayments could shorten the weighted average life of these portfolios. • Interest rates may have an indirect impact on loan demand, credit losses, loan origination volume, the value of securities holdings, including interest-only strips, gains and losses on sales of securities and loans, the value of mortgage servicing rights and other sources of earnings. In limiting interest rate risk to an acceptable level, management may alter the mix of floating and fixed rate assets and liabilities, change pricing schedules, adjust maturities through sales and purchases of investment securities, and enter into derivative contracts, among other alternatives. The Corporation may suffer losses or experience lower spreads than anticipated in initial projections as management implement strategies to reduce future interest rate exposure. 26 Table of Contents The hedging transactions that the Corporation enters into may not be effective in managing the exposure to market risk, including interest rate risk. The Corporation uses derivatives, to a limited extent, to manage part of the exposure to market risk caused by changes in interest rates or basis risk. The derivative instruments that the Corporation may utilize also have their own risks, which include: (1) basis risk, which is the risk of loss associated with variations in the spread between the asset yield and funding and/or hedge cost; (2) credit or default risk, which is the risk of insolvency or other inability of the counterparty to a particular transaction to perform its obligations there under; and (3) legal risk, which is the risk that the Corporation is unable to enforce certain terms of such instruments. All or any of such risks could expose the Corporation to losses. Reductions in the Corporation’s credit ratings or those of any of its subsidiaries would increase the cost of borrowing funds and make the Corporation’s ability to raise new funds or renew maturing debt more difficult. Credit ratings are an important component of the Corporation’s liquidity profile. Among other factors, credit ratings are based on the financial strength, the credit quality of and concentrations in the Corporations’ loan portfolio, the level and volatility of earnings, capital adequacy, the quality of management, the liquidity of the Corporation’s balance sheet, the availability of a significant base of core retail and commercial deposits, and the ability to access a broad array of wholesale funding sources. In December, 2007, Moody’s Investor Service (“Moodys”) downgraded by one notch to “A3”, the senior debt rating of the Corporation and reduced the short-term rating to “P-2”. The ratings were put on “watch negative”. The funding challenges at the bank holding company as well as the profitability of the U.S. business were given as the primary concerns underlying the downgrades. In January, 2008, Moodys upgraded the ratings outlook to “stable” and removed the ratings watch which has been in effect. Initiatives completed by management to address the bank holding companies’ funding challenges were cited as prompting the change, although the profitability of the U.S. business continues to be a ratings concern. After the end of the third quarter of 2007, Fitch Ratings reduced the short-term credit rating of Popular, Inc. and Popular North America, Inc. to “F-2” from “F-1”, and placed their long senior rating of “A-” on negative rating watch. Fitch Ratings mentioned that the rating actions reflected credit quality pressures from our sub-prime loan exposure as well as a more difficult environment for bank holding company funding. In both cases, Fitch Ratings maintained that it believes that both situations are challenging but manageable. In January, 2008, Fitch Ratings announced that it was affirming the Corporation’s senior debt rating at “A-“ as well as removing the rating from “watch negative”. The outlook was maintained “negative”. Management actions related to bank holding company liquidity were highlighted by the agency as underlying the removal of the “watch”, but U.S. business profitability concerns have kept the ratings outlook negative, until these challenges are resolved. Standard & Poor’s Rating Services (“S&P”) currently rates our debt “BBB+” for long-term debt and “A-2” for short-term obligations, both with a stable outlook. Changes in the Corporation’s credit ratings or the credit ratings of any of its subsidiaries to a level below “investment grade” would adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to raise funds in the capital markets. The Corporation’s counterparties are also sensitive to the risk of a ratings downgrade. In the event of a downgrade, the cost of borrowing funds would increase. In addition, the Corporation’s ability to raise new funds in the capital markets or renew maturing debt may be impaired. The Corporation’s ability to compete successfully in the marketplace for deposits depends on various factors, including service, convenience and financial stability as reflected by the operating results and credit ratings by nationally recognized credit agencies. A downgrade in credit ratings may impact the ability to raise deposits, but the Corporation believes that the impact should not be material. Deposits at all of its banking subsidiaries are federally insured (subject to limitations established by the FDIC), which is expected to mitigate the effect of a downgrade in the credit ratings. 27 Table of Contents A failure to comply with financial covenants in contractual agreements could accelerate payments of related borrowings. In the course of borrowing from institutional lenders and other investors, the Corporation has entered into contractual agreements to maintain certain levels of debt, capital and asset quality, among other financial covenants. Failing to comply with those agreements may result in an event of default, which could accelerate the repayment of the related borrowings. An event of default would also affect the Corporation’s ability to raise new funds or renew maturing debt. The Corporation is subject to default risk in its loan portfolio. The Corporation is subject to the risk of loss from loan defaults and foreclosures with respect to the loans originated or acquired. The Corporation establishes provisions for loan losses, which lead to reductions in the income from operations, in order to maintain the allowance for future loan losses at a level which is deemed appropriate by management based upon an assessment of the quality of the loan portfolio in accordance with established procedures and guidelines. There can be no assurance that management has accurately estimated the level of future loan losses or that the Corporation will not have to increase the provision for loan losses in the future as a result of future increases in non-performing loans or for other reasons beyond its control. The Corporation operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations. The Corporation is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and Puerto Rico banking authorities. Any change in applicable federal or Puerto Rico laws or regulations could have a substantial impact on its operations. Additional laws and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect the Corporation’s powers, authority and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators, in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties, have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe and unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies. The exercise of this regulatory discretion and power may have a negative impact on the Corporation. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect the Corporation’s profitability. The Corporation faces substantial competition in originating loans and in attracting deposits. The competition in originating loans comes principally from other U.S., Puerto Rico and foreign banks, mortgage banking companies, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and other institutional lenders and purchasers of loans. Certain of the Corporation’s competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulation that governs the Corporation’s business. The Corporation anticipates that it will encounter greater competition with the expansion of its operations on the U.S. mainland. Many institutions with which the Corporation competes on the U.S. mainland have significantly greater assets, capital, name recognition, customer loyalty and other resources. As a result, certain of its competitors may have advantages in conducting certain businesses and providing certain services. Increased competition could require that the Corporation increase the rates offered on deposits or lower the rates charged on loans, which could adversely affect its profitability. Rating downgrades on the Government of Puerto Rico’s debt obligations could affect the value of the Corporation’s loans to the Government and its portfolio of Puerto Rico Government securities. Even though Puerto Rico’s economy is closely integrated to that of the U.S. mainland and its government and many of its instrumentalities are investment grade-rated borrowers in the U.S. capital 28 Table of Contents markets, the fiscal situation of the Government of Puerto Rico has led nationally recognized rating agencies to downgrade its debt obligations. As a result of the Government’s fiscal challenges in 2006, Moodys and S&P then downgraded the rating of its obligations, but maintaining them within investment-grade levels. Since then, actions by the Government have improved the credit outlook. As of December 31, 2007, S&P rated the Government’s general obligations at BBB-, while Moodys rated them at Baa3- both in the lowest notch of investment grade. In November 2007, Moody’s upgraded the outlook of the Commonwealth’s credit ratings to “stable” from “negative” In justifying their change in outlook, Moody’s recognized the progress the Commonwealth has made in addressing the fiscal challenges it has faced in recent years. In particular it mentioned the controls imposed on public spending and the implementation of the sales tax as two favorable developments. Factors such as the government’s ability to implement meaningful steps to curb operating expenditures, improve managerial and budgetary controls, and eliminate the government’s reliance on operating budget loans from the Government Development Bank of Puerto Rico will be key determinants of future ratings stability. Also, the inability to agree on future fiscal year Commonwealth budgets could result in ratings pressure from the rating agencies. It is uncertain how the financial markets may react to any potential future ratings downgrade in Puerto Rico’s debt obligations. However, a deterioration in the fiscal situation with possible negative ratings implications, could adversely affect the value of Puerto Rico’s Government obligations. A substantial portion of the Corporation’s credit exposure to the Government of Puerto Rico is either collateralized loans or obligations that have a specific source of income or revenues identified for their repayment. Some of these obligations consist of senior and subordinated loans to public corporations that obtain revenues from rates charged for services or products, such as water and electric power utilities. Public corporations have varying degrees of independence from the central Government and many receive appropriations or other payments from the central Government. The Corporation also has loans to various municipalities for which the good faith, credit and unlimited taxing power of the applicable municipality has been pledged to their repayment. These municipalities are required by law to levy special property taxes in such amounts as shall be required for the payment of all of its general obligation bonds and loans. Another portion of these loans consist of special obligations of various municipalities that are payable from the basic real and personal property taxes collected within such municipalities. The full good faith and credit obligations of the municipalities have a first lien on the basic property taxes. At December 31, 2007, the Corporation had $1.0 billion of credit facilities granted to or guaranteed by the P.R. Government and its political subdivisions, of which $150 million are uncommitted lines of credit. Of these total credit facilities granted, $914 million in loans were outstanding at December 31, 2007. A substantial portion of the credit exposure to the Government of Puerto Rico has an identified repayment stream, which includes in some cases the good faith, credit and unlimited taxation power of certain municipalities and, an assignment of basic property taxes and other revenues. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2007, the Corporation had outstanding $178 million in Obligations of Puerto Rico, States and Political Subdivisions as part of its investment portfolio. Of that portfolio, $55 million was in the form of Puerto Rico Commonwealth’s Appropriation Bonds, which are currently rated Ba1, one notch below investment grade, by Moody’s and BBB-, the lowest investment grade rating, by S&P, another nationally recognized credit rating agency. At December 31, 2007, the Appropriation Bonds indicated above represented approximately $1.8 million in unrealized losses in the Corporation’s portfolio of investment securities available- for- sale. The Corporation is closely monitoring the political and economic situation of the Island and evaluates the portfolio for any declines in value that management may consider being other- than- temporary. Management has the intent and ability to hold these investments for a reasonable period of time or up to maturity for a forecasted recovery of fair value up to (or beyond) the cost of these investments. 29 Table of Contents Our income tax provision and other tax liabilities may be insufficient if taxing authorities are successful in asserting tax positions that are contrary to our position. Additionally, continued loss from operations in future reporting periods may require us to adjust the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. From time to time, we are audited by various federal, state and local authorities regarding income tax matters. Significant judgment is required to determine our provision for income taxes and our liabilities for federal, state, local and other taxes. Our audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal and, in some cases, litigation process. Although we believe our approach to determining the appropriate tax treatment is supportable and in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” and FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes,” it is possible that the final tax authority will take a tax position that is materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision and other tax reserves. As each audit is conducted, adjustments, if any, are appropriately recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements in the period determined. Such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision or benefit, or other tax reserves, in the reporting period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows for such period. Our deferred tax assets should be reduced by a valuation allowance, if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more-likely-than-not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In determining the more-likely-than-not criterion, we evaluate all positive and negative evidence as of the end of each reporting period. Future adjustments, either increases or decreases, to our deferred tax asset valuation allowance will be determined based upon changes in the expected realization of our net deferred tax assets. The realization of our deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in either the carryback or carryforward periods under the tax law. Due to significant estimates utilized in establishing the valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, it is reasonably possible that we will be required to record adjustments to the valuation allowance in future reporting periods. Our results of operations would be impacted negatively if we determine that increases to our deferred tax asset valuation allowance are required in a future reporting period. Certain of the provisions contained in the Corporation’s Certificate of Incorporation have the effect of making it more difficult to change the Board of Directors, and may make the Board of Directors less responsive to stockholder control. The Corporation’s certificate of incorporation provides that the members of the Board of Directors are divided into three classes as nearly equal as possible. At each annual meeting of stockholders, one-third of the members of the Board of Directors will be elected for a three-year term, and the other directors will remain in office until their three-year terms expire. Therefore, control of the Board of Directors cannot be changed in one year, and at least two annual meetings must be held before a majority of the members of the Board of Directors can be changed. The Corporation’s certificate of incorporation also provides that a director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed by the stockholders only for cause by a vote of at least two-thirds of the combined voting power of the outstanding capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors. These provisions have the effect of making it more difficult to change the Board of Directors, and may make the Board of Directors less responsive to stockholder control. These provisions also may tend to discourage attempts by third parties to acquire the Corporation because of the additional time and expense involved and a greater possibility of failure, and, as a result, may adversely affect the price that a potential purchaser would be willing to pay for the capital stock, thereby reducing the amount a stockholder might realize in, for example, a tender offer for the Corporation’s capital stock. 30 Table of Contents Preferred rights issued under the Corporation’s Stockholder Protection Rights Agreement may have an anti-takeover effect. Holders of shares of our common stock are entitled to a preferred right to purchase the Corporation’s Series A Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock in certain circumstances. Preferred rights become exercisable if a person or group has acquired 10% or more of the shares of common stock or a tender or exchange offer is commenced which, if consummated, would result in a person becoming the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the common stock. The preferred rights may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and generally may cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire the Corporation under circumstances not approved by the Board of Directors. For further information of other risks faced by the Corporation please refer to the MD&A section of the Annual Report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 