ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Popular, like other financial institutions, faces a number of risks inherent to our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and capital position. These risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. 27 Table of Contents The risks described in this report are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known by us or that we currently deem to be immaterial, or that are generally applicable to all financial institutions, also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND OUR INDUSTRY Weakness in the economy and in the real estate market in our geographic footprint has adversely impacted and may continue to adversely impact us. Popular is exposed to geographical and government risk. A significant portion of our financial activities and credit exposure is concentrated in Puerto Rico, which entered into a recession in the second quarter of 2006. The latest figures from the Puerto Rico Planning Board (PB) cut projected gross product growth for the current 2013 fiscal year (ends June 30) nearly in half, to 0.6% from 1.1%. The PB also cut the estimated economic growth rate during fiscal 2012 (ended June 30, 2012) to 0.4% from 0.9%. This was the first full year with a stable, but weak economy in Puerto Rico, following a six-year steep decline in economic activity. Employment continued to be a weak spot with the economy losing 13,000 jobs in 2012 and the unemployment rate at 13.4% by year-end. Puerto Rico’s fiscal situation is expected to continue to be challenging in 2013. The Commonwealth’s credit rating was downgraded by Moody’s in December 2012, to Baa3 with a negative outlook, with various factors noted, including the lack of clear growth catalysts, the fiscal budget deficits and the financial condition of the public sector employee pension plans, which are significantly underfunded. The Puerto Rico economy, however, continues to be susceptible to fluctuations in the price of crude oil due to its high dependence on fuel oil for energy production. Popular’s assets and revenue composition by geographical area and by business segment reporting are presented in Note 41, “Segment Reporting” to consolidated financial statements. The lingering effects of the prolonged recession are still reflected in limited loan demand and high levels of non-performing assets, loan loss provisions and charge-offs, particularly in our commercial loan portfolio in Puerto Rico, an increase in the rate of foreclosures and delinquencies on mortgage loans granted in Puerto Rico, and a reduction in the value of our loans and loan servicing portfolio, all of which have adversely affected our profitability. If the price of crude oil increases and if global economic conditions worsen, those adverse effects could continue. Also, a potential reduction in consumer spending may also impact growth in our non-interest revenues. For additional information regarding the Puerto Rico economy, refer to “Geographical and government risk” in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section of the Annual Report. Further deterioration in collateral values of properties securing our construction, commercial and mortgage loan portfolios would result in increased credit losses and continue to harm our results of operations. Further deterioration of the value of real estate collateral securing our construction, commercial and mortgage loan portfolios would result in increased credit losses. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 1%, 30% and 29% of our non-covered loan portfolio consisted of construction, commercial secured by real estate and mortgage loans, respectively. Substantially our entire loan portfolio is located within the boundaries of the U.S. economy. Whether the collateral is located in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, the British Virgin Islands or the U.S. mainland, the performance of our loan portfolio and the collateral value backing the transactions are dependent upon the performance of and conditions within each specific real estate market. Recent economic reports related to the real estate market in Puerto Rico indicate that certain pockets of the real estate market are subject to reductions in value related to general economic conditions. In certain mainland markets like southern Florida, Illinois and California, we have experienced the negative impact associated with low absorption rates and property value adjustments due to overbuilding. We measure loan impairment based on the fair value of the collateral, if the loan is collateral dependent, which is derived from estimated collateral values, principally obtained from appraisal reports that take into consideration prices in observed transactions involving similar assets in similar locations, size and supply and demand. An appraisal report is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made. If the appraisal does not reflect the amount that may be obtained upon any sale or foreclosure of the property, we may not realize an amount equal to the indebtedness secured by the property. In addition, given the current slowdown in the real estate market in Puerto Rico, the properties securing these loans may be difficult to dispose of, if foreclosed. 28 Table of Contents Construction and commercial loans, mostly secured by commercial and residential real estate properties entail a higher credit risk than consumer and residential mortgage loans, since they are larger in size, may have less collateral coverage, concentrate more risk in a single borrower and are generally more sensitive to economic downturns. As of December 31, 2012, non-covered commercial and construction loans secured by commercial real estate properties, amounted to $6.5 billion or 31% of the total non-covered loan portfolio. BPPR has various subsidiaries holding specific assets acquired in satisfaction of loans for real estate development projects. Total assets of those subsidiaries amounted to $82.8 million as of December 31, 2012, of which $37.3 million or 45% of total assets are foreclosed properties. During the year ended December 31, 2012, net charge-offs specifically related to values of properties securing our non-covered construction, commercial, legacy and mortgage loan portfolios totaled $6.1 million, $101.9 million, $4.1 million and $9.4 million, respectively. Continued deterioration on the fair value of real estate properties for collateral dependent impaired loans would require increases in our provision for loan losses and allowance for loan losses. Any such increase would have an adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. For more information on the credit quality of our construction, commercial and mortgage portfolio see the Credit Risk Management and Loan Quality section of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis included in this Form 10-K. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the financial industry and our results of operations and financial condition. Market instability and lack of investor confidence have led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce or cease providing funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This has led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity in general. The resulting economic pressures on consumers and uncertainty about the financial markets have adversely affected our industry and our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not expect a material improvement in the financial environment in the near future. A worsening of these difficult conditions would exacerbate the economic challenges facing us and others in the financial industry. In particular, we face the following risks in connection with these events: • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, including as a result of the EESA and the Dodd-Frank Act. Compliance with those regulations may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behavior. • The processes we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The reliability of these processes might be compromised if these variables are no longer capable of accurate estimation. • Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. • The FDIC increased the assessments that we have to pay on our insured deposits during 2009 because market developments led to a substantial increase in bank failures and an increase in FDIC loss reserves, which in turn led to a depletion of the FDIC insurance fund reserves. We may be required to pay in the future significantly higher FDIC assessments on our deposits if market conditions do not improve or continue to deteriorate. • We may suffer higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or other regulatory action that either (i) reduces the amount that our borrowers are required to pay us, or (ii) limits our ability to foreclose on properties or collateral or makes foreclosures less economically viable. 29 Table of Contents Financial services legislative and regulatory reforms may have a significant impact on our business and results of operations and on our credit ratings. Popular is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and Puerto Rico banking authorities. Any change in applicable federal or Puerto Rico laws or regulations could have a substantial impact on our operations. Additional laws and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect Popular’s powers, authority and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on Popular’s financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties, have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe and unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies. The exercise of this regulatory discretion and power would have a negative impact on Popular. Current economic conditions, particularly in the financial markets, have resulted in government regulatory agencies and political bodies placing increased focus and scrutiny on the financial services industry. The U.S. Government has intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding to what has been commonly referred to as the financial crisis. Several funding and capital programs by the Federal Reserve Board and the U.S. Treasury were launched in 2008 and 2009, with the objective of enhancing financial institutions’ ability to raise liquidity. It is expected that these programs may have the effect of increasing the degree or nature of regulatory supervision to which we are subjected. These and other potential regulation and scrutiny may, or proposed legislative and regulatory changes could, significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, require us to increase our regulatory capital and, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations or earnings. Our participation in TARP subjects us to increased scrutiny and imposes limitations on our business. We face increased regulation and regulatory scrutiny as a result of our participation in the TARP. Unless we have redeemed all of the trust preferred securities issued to the U.S. Treasury or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of its trust preferred securities to third parties, the consent of the U.S. Treasury will be required for us to, among other things, increase the dividend rate per share of Common Stock above $0.80 per share or to repurchase or redeem equity securities, including our Common Stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. Popular has also granted registration rights and offering facilitation rights to the U.S. Treasury pursuant to which we have agreed to lock-up periods during which it would be unable to issue equity securities. Our participation in TARP also imposes limitations on the payments we may make to our senior leaders. For more details on the implications of TARP please refer to the risks factors titled as follow: Our business could suffer if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate skilled senior leaders and dividends on our Common Stock and Preferred Stock have been suspended and stockholders may not receive funds in connection with their investment in our Common Stock or Preferred Stock without selling their shares. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes new capital requirements, assessments and restrictions on our businesses, impacting the profitability of our business activities and changing certain of our business practices, and could expose us to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law, which significantly changes the regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act includes provisions affecting large and small financial institutions alike including several provisions that will affect how community banks, thrifts, and small bank and thrift holding companies will be regulated in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, imposes new capital requirements on bank holding companies; changes the base for FDIC insurance assessments to a bank’s average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, rather than upon its deposit base, and permanently raises the current standard deposit insurance limit to $250,000; and expands the FDIC’s authority to raise insurance premiums. The legislation also calls for the FDIC to raise the ratio of reserves to deposits from 1.15% to 1.35% for deposit insurance purposes by September 30, 2020 and to “offset the effect” of increased assessments on insured depository institutions with assets of less than $10 billion. The Dodd-Frank 30 Table of Contents Act also limits interchange fees payable on debit card transactions, establishes the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection as an independent entity within the Federal Reserve, which will have broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services, including deposit products, residential mortgages, home-equity loans and credit cards, and contains provisions on mortgage-related matters such as steering incentives, determinations as to a borrower’s ability to repay and prepayment penalties. The Dodd-Frank Act also includes provisions that affect corporate governance and executive compensation at all publicly-traded companies and allows financial institutions to pay interest on business checking accounts. The legislation also restricts proprietary trading, places restrictions on the owning or sponsoring of hedge and private equity funds, and regulates the derivatives activities of banks and their affiliates. These provisions, or any other aspects of current or proposed regulatory or legislative changes to laws applicable to the financial industry, if enacted or adopted, may impact the profitability of our business activities or change certain of our business practices, including the ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads, and could expose us to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. These changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes to operations in order to comply, and could therefore also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our management is actively reviewing the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and assessing its probable impact on our operations. However, the ultimate effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on the financial services industry in general, and us in particular, is uncertain at this time. Capital and liquidity proposals and legislation, if adopted, would change banking laws and our operating environment and that of our subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways. On December 12, 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervisors of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee, released its final framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity regulation (“Basel III”). The implementation of the Basel III final capital framework will commence January 1, 2013. On that date, banks will be required to meet the following minimum capital ratios: 3.5% common equity Tier 1 (“CET1”) to risk-weighted assets; 4.5% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets; and 8.0% total capital to risk-weighted assets. When fully phased in on January 1, 2019, banks will be required to maintain: a minimum 4.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets, plus a 2.5% “capital conservation buffer” (which is added to the 4.5% CET1 ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7%); a minimum 6.0% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0% Tier 1 capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%); and a minimum 8.0% total capital to risk-weighted assets, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5%); a minimum leverage ratio of 3%; and a “countercyclical capital buffer,” generally to be imposed when regulators determine that excess aggregate credit growth becomes associated with a buildup of systemic risk, that would be a CET1 add-on to the capital conservation buffer in the range of 0% to 2.5% when fully implemented (potentially resulting in total buffers of between 2.5% and 5%). The Basel III final capital framework provides for a number of new deductions from and adjustments to CET1, the implementation of which will begin on January 1, 2014 and will be phase-din over a five-year period (20% per year). The implementation of the capital conservation buffer will begin on January 1, 2016 at 0.625% and be phased in over a four-year period (increasing by that amount on each subsequent January 1, until it reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019). The Basel III final liquidity framework requires banks to comply with two measures of liquidity risk exposure: the “Liquidity Coverage Ratio,” or “LCR”, based on a 30-day time horizon and calculated as the ratio of the “stock of high-quality liquid assets” divided by “total net cash outflows over the next 30 calendar days”, which must be at least 100%; and the “Net Stable Funding Ratio, “ or “NSFR,” calculated as the ratio of the “available amount of stable funding” divided by the “required amount of stable funding,” which must be at least 100%. Although the Basel Committee has not asked for additional comment on the LCR and NSFR, both are subject to observation periods and transitional arrangements, with the Basel III liquidity framework providing that revisions to the LCR will be made by mid-2013, and the LCR will be introduced as a requirement on January 1, 2015; and revisions to the NSFR will be made by mid 2016, and the NSFR will be introduced as a requirement on January 1, 2018. 31 Table of Contents Such proposals and legislation, if finally adopted, would change banking laws and our operating environment and that of our subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes. We cannot determine whether such proposals and legislation will be adopted. We anticipate that, based on our current level of assets, non-performing assets and the composition of these, the implementation of the rules as currently proposed would lower our regulatory capital ratios. Although we expect to continue to exceed the minimum requirements for well capitalized status following the implementation of the rules as proposed, there can be no assurances that we will remain well capitalized. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. There can be no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations or earnings. We have procedures in place to mitigate the impact of a default among our counterparties. We request collateral for most credit exposures with other financial institutions and monitor these on a regular basis. Nonetheless, market volatility could impact the valuation of collateral held by us and results in losses. Our ability to raise financing is dependent in part on market confidence. In times when market confidence is affected by events related to well-known financial institutions, risk aversion among participants may increase, substantially and makes it more difficult to borrow in the credit markets. Our credit ratings were reduced substantially in 2009, and our senior unsecured ratings are now “non-investment grade” with the three major rating agencies. This may make it more difficult for Popular to borrow in the capital markets and at a higher cost. We are subject to default risk in our loan portfolio. We are subject to the risk of loss from loan defaults and foreclosures with respect to the loans originated or acquired. We establish provisions for loan losses, which lead to reductions in the income from operations, in order to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level which is deemed appropriate by management based upon an assessment of the quality of the loan portfolio in accordance with established procedures and guidelines. This process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic and market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay the loans. There can be no assurance that management has accurately estimated the level of future loan losses or that Popular will not have to increase the provision for loan losses in the future as a result of future increases in non-performing loans or for other reasons beyond our control. Any such increases in our provisions for loan losses or any loan losses in excess of our provisions for loan losses would have an adverse effect on our future financial condition and result of operations. We will continue to evaluate our provision for loan losses and allowance for loan losses and may be required to increase such amounts. Rating downgrades on the Government of Puerto Rico’s debt obligations could affect the value of our loans to the Government and our portfolio of Puerto Rico Government securities. Even though Puerto Rico’s economy is closely integrated to that of the U.S. mainland and its government and many of its instrumentalities are investment grade-rated borrowers in the U.S. capital markets, the fiscal situation of the Government of Puerto Rico led nationally recognized rating agencies to downgrade its debt obligations. 32 Table of Contents The Commonwealth’s credit rating was downgraded by Moody’s in December 2012, to Baa3 with a negative outlook, with various factors noted, including the lack of clear growth catalysts, the fiscal budget deficits and the financial condition of the public sector employee pension plans, which are significantly underfunded. On November 9, 2012, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services affirmed their BBB-/Negative rating to the outstanding general obligation (GO) bonds of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and on December 18, 2002, Fitch Rating’s affirmed its ‘BBB+’ rating for the subject debt. On February 21, 2013, Fitch placed the ratings of the Commonwealth’s general obligation bonds and related debt on rating Watch Negative. Factors such as the government’s ability to implement meaningful steps to control operating expenditures and maintain the integrity of the tax base will be key determinants of future ratings stability. Also, the inability to agree on future fiscal year Commonwealth budgets could result in ratings pressure from the rating agencies. It is uncertain how the financial markets may react to any potential future ratings downgrade in Puerto Rico’s debt obligations. However, deterioration in the fiscal situation with possible negative ratings implications, could adversely affect the value of Puerto Rico’s Government obligations. At December 31, 2012, the Corporation had approximately $0.9 billion of credit facilities granted to the Puerto Rico Government, its municipalities and public corporations, of which $75 million were uncommitted lines of credit (2011 - $1.0 billion and $215 million, respectively). Of the total credit facilities granted, $749 million was outstanding at December 31, 2012, of which $61 million were uncommitted lines of credit (2011 - $799 million and $0, respectively). A substantial portion of our credit exposure to the Government of Puerto Rico is either collateralized loans or obligations that have a specific source of income or revenues identified for its repayment. Some of these obligations consist of senior and subordinated loans to public corporations that obtain revenues from rates charged for services or products, such as water and electric power utilities. Public corporations have varying degrees of independence from the Central Government and many receive appropriations or other payments from it. We also have loans to various municipalities for which the good faith, credit and unlimited taxing power of the applicable municipality has been pledged to their repayment. These municipalities are required by law to levy special property taxes in such amounts as shall be required for the payment of all of its general obligation bonds and loans. Another portion of these loans consists of special obligations of various municipalities that are payable from the basic real and personal property taxes collected within such municipalities. The good faith and credit obligations of the municipalities have a first lien on the basic property taxes. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2012, we had outstanding $218 million in obligations issued or guaranteed by the Puerto Rico Government, its municipalities and public corporations as part of our investment securities portfolio. We continue to closely monitor the political and economic situation of Puerto Rico and evaluate the portfolio for any declines in value that management may consider being other-than-temporary. We are exposed to credit risk from mortgage loans that have been sold or are being serviced subject to recourse arrangements. Popular is generally at risk for mortgage loan defaults from the time it funds a loan until the time the loan is sold or securitized into a mortgage-backed security. In the past, we have retained, through recourse arrangements, part of the credit risk on sales of mortgage loans, and we also service certain mortgage loan portfolios with recourse. At December 31, 2012, we serviced $2.9 billion in residential mortgage loans subject to credit recourse provisions, principally loans associated with FNMA and Freddie Mac programs. In the event of any customer default, pursuant to the credit recourse provided, we are required to repurchase the loan or reimburse the third party investor for the incurred loss. The maximum potential amount of future payments that we would be required to make under the recourse arrangements in the event of nonperformance by the borrowers is equivalent to the total outstanding balance of the residential mortgage loans serviced with recourse and interest, if applicable. During 2012, we repurchased approximately $157 million in mortgage loans subject to the credit recourse provisions. In the event of nonperformance by the borrower, we have rights to the underlying collateral securing the mortgage loan. As of December 31, 2012, our liability established to cover the estimated credit loss exposure related to loans sold or serviced with credit recourse amounted to $52 million. We may suffer losses on these loans when the proceeds from a foreclosure sale of the property underlying a defaulted mortgage loan are less than the outstanding principal balance of the loan plus any uncollected interest advanced and the costs of holding and disposing of the related property. 33 Table of Contents Defective and repurchased loans may harm our business and financial condition. In connection with the sale and securitization of loans, we are required to make a variety of customary representations and warranties regarding Popular and the loans being sold or securitized. Our obligations with respect to these representations and warranties are generally outstanding for the life of the loan, and they relate to, among other things: • compliance with laws and regulations; • underwriting standards; • the accuracy of information in the loan documents and loan file; and • the characteristics and enforceability of the loan. A loan that does not comply with these representations and warranties may take longer to sell, may impact our ability to obtain third party financing for the loan, and be unsaleable or saleable only at a significant discount. If such a loan is sold before we detect non-compliance, we may be obligated to repurchase the loan and bear any associated loss directly, or we may be obligated to indemnify the purchaser against any loss, either of which could reduce our cash available for operations and liquidity. Management believes that it has established controls to ensure that loans are originated in accordance with the secondary market’s requirements, but mistakes may be made, or certain employees may deliberately violate our lending policies. We seek to minimize repurchases and losses from defective loans by correcting flaws, if possible, and selling or re-selling such loans. We have established specific reserves for probable losses related to repurchases resulting from representation and warranty violations on specific portfolios. At December 31, 2012, Popular’s reserve for estimated losses from representation and warranty arrangements amounted to $16.2 million, which was included as part of other liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial condition. Nonetheless, we do not expect any such losses to be significant, although if they were to occur, they would adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse effect on our earnings. During 2008 and continuing in 2009, higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the DIF. In addition, the FDIC instituted two temporary programs, to further insure customer deposits at FDIC-member banks: deposit accounts are now insured up to $250,000 per customer (up from $100,000) and non-interest-bearing transaction accounts are fully insured (unlimited coverage) as a result of our participation in the Transaction Account Guarantee Program. These programs have placed additional stress on the DIF. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the DIF, the FDIC increased assessment rates of insured institutions uniformly by 7 cents for every $100 of deposits beginning with the first quarter of 2009, with additional changes in April 1, 2009, which required riskier institutions to pay a larger share of premiums by factoring in rate adjustments based on, among other things, secured liabilities and unsecured debt levels. In May 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule, effective June 30, 2009, that imposed a special assessment of 5 cents for every $100 on each insured depository institution’s assets minus its Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, subject to a cap equal to 10 cents per $100 of assessable deposits for the second quarter 2009 risk-based capital assessment. This special assessment applied to us and resulted in a $16.7 million expense in our second quarter of 2009. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring banks to prepay three years’ worth of premiums to replenish its depleted insurance fund. In December 30, 2009, Popular prepaid $221 million and reduced our year-end liquidity at our banking subsidiaries. With the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, major changes were introduced to the FDIC deposit insurance system. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC now has until the end of September 2020 to bring its reserve ratio to the new statutory minimum of 1.35%. New rules amending the deposit insurance assessment regulations under the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act have been adopted, including a final rule designating 2% as the designated reserve ratio and a final rule extending temporary unlimited deposit insurance to non-interest bearing transaction accounts maintained in connection with lawyers’ trust accounts. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC adopted regulations effective for the 2011 second quarter assessment and payable in September 2011, which outline significant changes in the risk-based premiums approach for 34 Table of Contents banks with over $10 billion of assets and creates a “Scorecard” system. The “Scorecard” system uses a performance score and loss severity score, which aggregate to an initial base assessment rate. The assessment base also changes from deposits to an institution’s average total assets minus its average tangible equity. For 2012 the FDIC deposit insurance expense of Popular totaled $86 million and the prepaid FDIC insurance assessment as of December 31, 2012 amounted to $28 million. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures or our capital position is further impaired, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Any future increases or special assessments may materially adversely affect our results of operations. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, it may adversely affect our financial condition and future results of operations As of December 31, 2012 we had approximately $648 million and $48 million of goodwill and amortizable intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet related to our Puerto Rico and United States operations, respectively. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under GAAP, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of the goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include reduced future cash flow estimates and slower growth rates in the industry. The goodwill impairment evaluation process requires us to make estimates and assumptions with regards to the fair value of our reporting units. Actual values may differ significantly from these estimates. Such differences could result in future impairment of goodwill that would, in turn, negatively impact our results of operations and the reporting unit where the goodwill is recorded. Critical assumptions that are used as part of these evaluations include: • selection of comparable publicly traded companies, based on nature of business, location and size; • selection of comparable acquisition and capital raising transactions; • the discount rate applied to future earnings, based on an estimate of the cost of equity; • the potential future earnings of the reporting unit; and • the market growth and new business assumptions. We conducted our annual evaluation of goodwill during the third quarter of 2012 using July 31, 2012 as the annual evaluation date. This evaluation is a two-step process. The Step 1 evaluation of goodwill allocated to BPNA, our United States operations segment, indicated potential impairment of goodwill. The Step 1 fair value for the unit was below the carrying amount of its equity book value as of the September 30, 2012 valuation date, requiring the completion of Step 2. Step 2 required a valuation of all assets and liabilities of the BPNA unit, including any recognized and unrecognized intangible assets, to determine the fair value of net assets. To complete Step 2, we subtracted from the unit’s Step 1 fair value the determined fair value of the net assets to arrive at the implied fair value of goodwill. The results of the Step 2 analysis indicated that the implied fair value of goodwill exceeded the goodwill carrying value of $402 million, resulting in no goodwill impairment. If we are required to record a charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements because an impairment of the goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 35 Table of Contents Our business could suffer if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate skilled senior leaders Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain key senior leaders, and competition for such senior leaders can be intense in most areas of our business. As TARP recipients, we are subject to the executive compensation provisions of the EESA, including amendments to such provisions implemented under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, which are expected to limit the types of compensation arrangements that Popular may enter into with our most senior leaders upon adoption of implementing standards by the U. S. Treasury. Our competitors may be in an advantageous position to retain and attract senior leaders since we are one of only two institutions in Puerto Rico that have received TARP money and are subject to TARP related compensation provisions. Our compensation practices are subject to review and oversight by the Federal Reserve Board. We also may be subject to limitations on compensation practices by the FDIC or other regulators, which may or may not affect our competitors. Limitations on our compensation practices could have a negative impact on our ability to attract and retain talented senior leaders in support of our long term strategy. Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve Board. Any deficiencies in our compensation practices may be incorporated into our supervisory ratings, which can affect our ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve Board. In October 2009, the Federal Reserve Board issued a comprehensive proposal on incentive compensation policies that applies to all banking organizations supervised by the Federal Reserve Board, including Popular and our banking subsidiaries. The proposal sets forth three key principles for incentive compensation arrangements that are designed to help ensure that incentive compensation plans do not encourage excessive risk-taking and are consistent with the safety and soundness of banking organizations. The three principles provide that a banking organization’s incentive compensation arrangements should provide incentives that do not encourage risk-taking beyond the organization’s ability to effectively identify and manage risks, be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and be supported by strong corporate governance. The proposal also contemplates a detailed review by the Federal Reserve Board of the incentive compensation policies and practices of a number of “large, complex banking organizations.” Any deficiencies in compensation practices that are identified may be incorporated into the organization’s supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. The proposal provides that enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements or related risk-management control or governance processes pose a risk to the organization’s safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. Separately, the FDIC has solicited comments on whether to amend its risk-based deposit insurance assessment system to potentially increase assessment rates on financial institutions with compensation programs that put the FDIC deposit insurance fund at risk, and proposed legislation would subject compensation practices at financial institutions to heightened standards and increased scrutiny. The scope and content of the U.S. banking regulators’ policies on executive compensation are continuing to develop and are likely to continue evolving in the near future. It cannot be determined at this time whether compliance with such policies will adversely affect the ability of Popular and our subsidiaries to hire, retain and motivate our and their key employees. As a holding company, we depend on dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries for liquidity. We are a bank holding company and depend primarily on dividends from our banking and other operating subsidiaries to fund our cash needs. These obligations and needs include capitalizing subsidiaries, repaying maturing debt and paying debt service on outstanding debt. Our banking subsidiaries, BPPR and BPNA, are limited by law in their ability to make dividend payments and other distributions to us based on their earnings and capital position. A failure by our banking subsidiaries to generate sufficient cash flow to make dividend payments to us may have a negative impact on our results of operation and financial position. Also, a failure by the bank holding company to access sufficient liquidity resources to meet all projected cash needs in the ordinary course of business, may have a detrimental impact on our financial condition and ability to compete in the market. 36 Table of Contents Actions by the rating agencies or having capital levels below well-capitalized could raise the cost of our obligations, which could affect our ability to borrow or to enter into hedging agreements in the future and may have other adverse effects on our business. Actions by the rating agencies could raise the cost of our borrowings since lower rated securities are usually required by the market to pay higher rates than obligations of higher credit quality. The market for non-investment grade securities is much smaller and less liquid than for investment grade securities. Therefore, if we were to attempt to issue preferred stock or debt securities into the capital markets, it is possible that there would not be sufficient demand to complete a transaction and the cost could be substantially higher than for more highly rated securities. In addition, changes in our ratings and capital levels below well-capitalized could affect our relationships with some creditors and business counterparties. For example, a portion of our hedging transactions include ratings triggers or well-capitalized language that permit counterparties to either request additional collateral or terminate our agreements with them based on our below investment grade ratings. Although we have been able to meet any additional collateral requirements thus far and expect that we would be able to enter into agreements with substitute counterparties if any of our existing agreements were terminated, changes in our ratings or capital levels below well capitalized could create additional costs for our businesses. In addition, servicing, licensing and custodial agreements that we are party to with third parties include ratings covenants. Servicing rights represent a contractual right and not a beneficial ownership interest in the underlying mortgage loans. Upon failure to maintain the required credit ratings, the third parties could have the right to require Popular to engage a substitute fund custodian and/or increase collateral levels securing the recourse obligations. Popular services residential mortgage loans subject to credit recourse provisions. Certain contractual agreements require us to post collateral to secure such recourse obligations if our required credit ratings are not maintained. Collateral pledged by us to secure recourse obligations approximated $135 million at December 31, 2012. We could be required to post additional collateral under the agreements. Management expects that we would be able to meet additional collateral requirements if and when needed. The requirements to post collateral under certain agreements or the loss of custodian funds could reduce Popular’s liquidity resources and impact its operating results. The termination of those agreements or the inability to realize servicing income for our businesses could have an adverse effect on those businesses. Other counterparties are also sensitive to the risk of a ratings downgrade and the implications for our businesses and may be less likely to engage in transactions with us, or may only engage in them at a substantially higher cost, if our ratings remain below investment grade. We are subject to regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, and if we fail to meet these guidelines our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, and other regulatory requirements, Popular and our banking subsidiaries must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators regarding components, risk weightings and other factors. If we fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our business and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to maintain well-capitalized status under the regulatory framework, or are deemed not well managed under regulatory exam procedures, or if we experience certain regulatory violations, our status as a financial holding company and our related eligibility for a streamlined review process for acquisition proposals, and our ability to offer certain financial products will be compromised and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In July 2011, the Corporation and BPPR entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (the “Corporation/BPPR MOU”) with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the “FRB-NY”) and the Office of the Commissioner of Financial Institutions of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico (the “Office of the Commissioner”). On the same date, BPNA entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (the “BPNA MOU” and collectively with the Corporation/BPPR MOU, the “MOUs”) with the FRB-NY and the New York State Banking Department (the “Banking Department”). The MOUs generally apply to the Corporation, the applicable bank subsidiary and the Corporation’s nonbank subsidiaries. The MOUs provide, among other things, for the Corporation to take steps to improve its credit risk management practices and asset quality, and for the Corporation to develop strategic plans to improve earnings and to develop capital plans. The Corporation does not expect the capital plans to require it to maintain capital ratios in excess of those it currently has achieved. The MOUs require the Corporation to obtain approval from the applicable MOU counterparties prior to, among other things, declaring or paying dividends, purchasing or redeeming any shares of its stock, consummating acquisitions or mergers, or making any distributions on its trust preferred securities or subordinated debentures. Certain of the provisions contained in our Certificate of Incorporation have the effect of making it more difficult to change the Board of Directors, and may make the Board of Directors less responsive to stockholder control. Our certificate of incorporation provides that the members of the Board of Directors are divided into three classes as nearly equal as possible. At each annual meeting of stockholders, one-third of the members of the Board of Directors will be elected for a three-year term, and the other directors will remain in office until their three-year terms expire. Therefore, control of the Board of Directors cannot be changed in one year, and at least two annual meetings must be held before a majority of the members of the Board of Directors can be changed. Our certificate of incorporation also provides that a director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed by the stockholders only for cause by a vote of at least two-thirds of the combined voting power of the outstanding capital stock entitled to vote for the election of directors. These provisions have the effect of making it more difficult to change the Board of Directors, and may make the Board of 37 Table of Contents Directors less responsive to stockholder control. These provisions also may tend to discourage attempts by third parties to acquire Popular because of the additional time and expense involved and a greater possibility of failure, and, as a result, may adversely affect the price that a potential purchaser would be willing to pay for the capital stock, thereby reducing the amount a stockholder might realize in, for example, a tender offer for our capital stock. The resolution of significant pending litigation, if unfavorable, could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. We face legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. For further information relating to our legal risk, see Note 27, “Commitments & Contingencies”, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We and our subsidiaries and affiliates, as well as EVERTEC, conduct business with financial institutions and/or card payment networks operating in countries whose nationals, including some of our customers’ customers, engage in transactions in countries that are the targets of U.S. economic sanctions and embargoes. If we or our subsidiaries or affiliates or EVERTEC are found to have failed to comply with applicable U.S. sanctions laws and regulations in these instances, we could be exposed to fines, sanctions and other penalties or other governmental investigations. We and our subsidiaries and affiliates, as well as EVERTEC, conduct business with financial institutions and/or card payment networks operating in countries whose nationals, including some of our customers’ customers, engage in transactions in countries that are the target of U.S. economic sanctions and embargoes, including Cuba. As U.S.-based entities, we and our subsidiaries and affiliates, as well as EVERTEC, are obligated to comply with the economic sanctions regulations administered by OFAC. These regulations prohibit U.S.-based entities from entering into or facilitating unlicensed transactions with, for the benefit of, or in some cases involving the property and property interests of, persons, governments or countries designated by the U.S. government under one or more sanctions regimes. Failure to comply with U.S. sanctions and embargoes may result in material fines, sanctions or other penalties being imposed on us. In addition, various state and municipal governments, universities and other investors maintain prohibitions or restrictions on investments in companies that do business involving countries or entities, and this could adversely affect the market for our securities. For these reasons, we have established risk-based policies and procedures designed to assist us and our personnel in complying with applicable U.S. laws and regulations. EVERTEC has also done this. These policies and procedures employ software to screen transactions for evidence of sanctioned-country and persons involvement. Consistent with a risk-based approach and the difficulties in identifying all transactions of our customers’ customers that may involve a sanctioned country, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will prevent us from violating applicable U.S. laws and regulations in transactions in which we engage, and such violations could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. In June 2010, EVERTEC discovered potential violations of the Cuban Assets Control Regulations (“CACR”), which are administered by OFAC, due to an oversight in which the screening parameters for two customers located in Haiti and Belize were not activated. EVERTEC conducted an internal review and submitted a final voluntary self-disclosure to OFAC in September 2010. We have agreed to indemnify EVERTEC for claims or damages related to the economic sanctions regulations administered by OFAC, including these potential violations of the CACR. Separately, in November 2010 EVERTEC submitted a final voluntary self-disclosure to OFAC regarding the processing of certain Cuba related credit card transactions involving Costa Rica and Venezuela that EVERTEC believed could not be rejected under governing local law and policies, but which nevertheless may have not been consistent with the CACR. The voluntary self-disclosure also covered the transmission, through EVERTEC’s Costa Rica subsidiary, of data relating to debit card payment initiated by non-sanctioned persons traveling to Cuba. Notwithstanding the risk of violations of applicable governing local law and policies, around September 2010, EVERTEC ceased processing the credit card transactions and transmitting the data referred to in the two preceding sentences. We have agreed to indemnify 38 Table of Contents EVERTEC for claims or damages related to these potential violations of the CACR. We cannot predict the timing, total costs or ultimate outcome of any OFAC review, or to what extent, if at all, we could be subject to indemnification claims, fines, sanctions or other penalties. RISKS RELATED TO THE FDIC-ASSISTED TRANSACTION Risks Related to the FDIC-assisted Transaction We entered into an FDIC-assisted transaction involving Westernbank, which could present additional risks to our business. On April 30, 2010, BPPR acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Westernbank from the FDIC in an assisted transaction. Although this transaction provides for FDIC assistance to BPPR to mitigate certain risks, such as sharing exposure to loan losses (80% of the losses in substantially all the acquired portfolio will be borne by the FDIC) and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the former Westernbank, we are still subject to some of the same risks we would face in acquiring another bank in a negotiated transaction. Such risks include risks associated with maintaining customer relationships and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. In addition, because the FDIC-assisted transaction was structured in a manner that did not allow bidders the time and access to information normally associated with preparing for and evaluating a negotiated transaction, we may face additional risks in the FDIC-assisted transaction. The success of the FDIC-assisted transaction will depend on a number of uncertain factors. The success of the FDIC-assisted transaction will depend on a number of factors, including, without limitation: • our ability to limit the outflow of deposits held by our new customers in the acquired branches and to successfully retain and manage interest-earning assets (i.e., loans) acquired in the FDIC-assisted transaction; • our ability to attract new deposits and to generate new interest-earning assets in the areas previously served by the former Westernbank branches; • our ability to control the incremental non-interest expense from the former Westernbank branches and other units in a manner that enables us to maintain a favorable overall efficiency ratio; • our ability to collect on the loans acquired and satisfy the standard requirements imposed in the loss sharing agreements; and • our ability to earn acceptable levels of interest and non-interest income, including fee income, from the acquired branches. The FDIC-assisted transaction increased BPPR’s commercial real estate and construction loan portfolio, which have a greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans. With the acquisition of most of the former Westernbank’s loan portfolio, the commercial real estate loan and construction loan portfolios represent a larger portion of BPPR’s total loan portfolio than prior to the FDIC-assisted transaction. This type of lending is generally considered to have more complex credit risks than traditional single-family residential or consumer lending, because the principal is concentrated in a limited number of loans with repayment dependent on the successful operation or completion of the related real estate or construction project. Consequently, these loans are more sensitive to the current adverse conditions in the real estate market and the general economy. These loans are generally less predictable, more difficult to evaluate and monitor, and their collateral may be more difficult to dispose of in a market decline. Furthermore, since these loans are to Puerto Rico based borrowers, Popular’s credit exposure concentration in Puerto Rico increased as a result of the acquisition. Although, the negative economic aspects of these risks are substantially reduced as a result of the FDIC loss sharing agreements, changes in national and local economic conditions could lead to higher loan charge-offs in connection with the FDIC-assisted transaction all of which would not be totally supported by the loss sharing agreements with the FDIC. 39 Table of Contents We acquired significant portfolios of loans in the FDIC-assisted transaction. Although these loan portfolios will be initially accounted for at fair value, there is no assurance that the loans we acquired will not become impaired, which may result in additional charge-offs to this portfolio. The fluctuations in national, regional and local economic conditions, including those related to local residential, commercial real estate and construction markets, may increase the level of charge-offs that we make to our loan portfolio, and consequently, reduce our net income, and may also increase the level of charge-offs on the loan portfolio that we have acquired and correspondingly reduce our net income. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur. Although we have entered into loss sharing agreements with the FDIC which provide that 80% of losses related to specified loan portfolios that we have acquired in connection with the FDIC-assisted transaction will be borne by the FDIC, we are not protected for all losses resulting from charge-offs with respect to those specified loan portfolios. Additionally, the loss sharing agreements have limited terms; therefore, any charge-off of related losses that we experience after the term of the loss sharing agreements will not be reimbursed by the FDIC and will negatively impact our results of operations. The loss sharing agreements also impose standard requirements on us which must be satisfied in order to retain loss share protections. The FDIC has the right to refuse or delay payment for loan losses if the loss sharing agreements are not managed in accordance with their terms. Our decisions regarding the fair value of assets acquired could be inaccurate and our estimated loss share indemnification asset in the FDIC-assisted transaction may be inaccurate, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of acquired loan portfolios, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of secured loans. In the FDIC-assisted transaction, we recorded a loss share indemnification asset that we consider adequate to absorb future losses which may occur in the acquired loan portfolio. In determining the size of the loss share indemnification asset, we analyze the loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and classification of loans, volume and trends in delinquencies and nonaccruals, local economic conditions, and other pertinent information. If our assumptions are incorrect, our actual losses could be higher than estimated and increased loss reserves may be needed to respond to different economic conditions or adverse developments in the acquired loan portfolio. Any increase in future loan losses could have a negative effect on our operating results. However, in the event expected losses from the Westernbank portfolio were to increase more than originally expected, the related increase in loss reserves would be largely offset by higher than expected indemnity payments from the FDIC. Refer to the Westernbank FDIC-assisted transaction section in the Annual Report and Note 4, “Business Combination”, to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on the Westernbank FDIC-assisted transaction, including the accounting for assets acquired and liabilities assumed as well as information on the breakdown and accounting of the acquired loan portfolio. Our ability to obtain reimbursement under the loss sharing agreements on covered assets depends on our compliance with the terms of the loss sharing agreements. The loss share agreements contain specific terms and conditions regarding the management of the covered assets that BPPR must follow to receive reimbursement on losses from the FDIC. Under the loss share agreements, BPPR must: • manage and administer the covered assets and collect and effect charge-offs and recoveries with respect to such covered assets in a manner consistent with its usual and prudent business and banking practices and, with respect to single family shared-loss loans, the procedures (including collection procedures) customarily employed by BPPR in servicing and administering mortgage loans for its own account and the servicing procedures established by FNMA or FHLMC, as in effect from time to time, and in accordance with accepted mortgage servicing practices of prudent lending institutions; 40 Table of Contents • exercise its best judgment in managing, administering and collecting amounts on covered assets and effecting charge-offs with respect to the covered assets; • use commercially reasonable efforts to maximize recoveries with respect to losses on single family shared-loss assets and best efforts to maximize collections with respect to commercial shared-loss assets; • retain sufficient staff to perform the duties under the loss share agreements; • adopt and implement accounting, reporting, record-keeping and similar systems with respect to the commercial shared-loss assets; • comply with the terms of the modification guidelines approved by the FDIC or another federal agency for any single-family shared loss loan; • provide notice with respect to proposed transactions pursuant to which a third party or affiliate will manage, administer or collect any commercial shared-loss assets; and • file monthly and quarterly certificates with the FDIC specifying the amount of losses, charge-offs and recoveries. Under the loss share agreements, BPPR is also required to maintain books and records sufficient to ensure and document compliance with the terms of the loss share agreements. Under the terms of the loss share agreements, BPPR is also required to deliver certain certificates regarding compliance with the terms of each of the loss share agreements and the computations required thereunder. The required terms of the agreements are extensive and failure to comply with any of the guidelines could result in a specific asset or group of assets permanently losing their loss sharing coverage. No assurances can be given that we will manage the covered assets in such a way as to always maintain loss share coverage on all such assets and fully recover the value of our loss share asset. BPPR has received all reimbursements requested from the FDIC through its submission for the quarter ended June 30, 2012, except for approximately $71.1 million in requested shared-loss claims related to the June 30, 2012 quarter, which have not been paid because of a difference of approximately $26.2 million related to the methodology for the computation of charge-offs for certain late stage real estate collateral dependent loans. Our methodology is consistent with our charge-off policy for non-covered assets and conforms with our regulatory supervisory criteria. We are currently in discussion with the FDIC regarding our charge-off policy and the commercial loss share agreement with the FDIC. To the extent we are not able to successfully resolve this matter, a material difference could result in the timing and amount of charge-offs recorded by us and the amount of charge-offs reimbursed by the FDIC under the commercial loss share agreement. We have not submitted claims for reimbursement for periods subsequent to June 30, 2012, pending resolution of this matter. Through December 31, 2012, we had unbilled shared-loss claims of approximately $158.8 million under the commercial loss share agreement with the FDIC related to late stage real estate collateral dependent loans, determined as described above. If the reimbursement amount for these additional claims through December 31, 2012 were calculated in accordance with the FDIC’s methodology, the amount of such claims would be reduced by approximately $54.7 million. No assurance can be given that we would be able to claim reimbursement from the FDIC for such difference prior to the expiration of the commercial loss share agreement in April 2015, which could require us to make a material adjustment to the value of our loss share asset and the related true up payment obligation to the FDIC and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results for the period in which such adjustment is taken. RISKS RELATING TO AN INVESTMENT IN OUR SECURITIES Potential issuance of additional shares of our Common Stock could further dilute existing holders of our Common Stock. The potential issuance of additional shares of our Common Stock or common equivalent securities in future equity offerings, or as a result of the exercise of the warrant the U.S. Treasury holds, would dilute the ownership interest of our existing common stockholders. Dividends on our Common Stock and Preferred Stock have been or may be suspended and stockholders may not receive funds in connection with their investment in our Common Stock or Preferred Stock without selling their shares. Holders of our Common Stock and Preferred Stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. During 2009, we suspended dividend payments on our Common Stock and Preferred Stock. In December 2010, we resumed payment of dividends on our Preferred Stock, subject to certain conditions agreed to with our regulators. In connection with the resumption of payment of dividends on our Preferred Stock, we agreed to fund the dividend payments out of newly-issued Common Stock issued to employees under Popular’s existing savings and investment plans or, if such issuances are insufficient, other common equity capital raised by Popular. It is anticipated that sufficient Common Stock will be issued under those plans to cover the dividend payment. There can be no assurance that any dividends will be declared on the Preferred Stock in any future 41 Table of Contents periods. Furthermore, unless we have redeemed all of the trust preferred securities issued to the U.S. Treasury or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of its trust preferred securities to third parties, the consent of the U.S. Treasury will be required for us to, among other things, increase the dividend rate per share of Common Stock above $0.80 per share or to repurchase or redeem equity securities, including our Common Stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. Popular has also granted registration rights and offering facilitation rights to the U.S. Treasury pursuant to which we have agreed to lock-up periods during which it would be unable to issue equity securities. This could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Also, we are a bank holding company and our ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain Federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board regarding capital adequacy and dividends. Moreover, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC have issued policy statements stating that the bank holding companies and insured banks should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. In the current financial and economic environment, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully review their dividend policy and has discouraged dividend pay-out ratios that are at the 100% or higher level unless both asset quality and capital are very strong. In addition, the terms of our outstanding junior subordinated debt securities held by each trust that has issued trust preferred securities, prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on our capital stock, including our Common Stock and Preferred Stock. The terms also prohibit us from purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if we have given notice of our election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing. Accordingly, shareholders may have to sell some or all of their shares of our Common Stock or Preferred Stock in order to generate cash flow from their investment. Shareholders may not realize a gain on their investment when they sell the Common Stock or Preferred Stock and may lose the entire amount of their investment. RISKS RELATING TO OUR OPERATIONS Cyber-attacks, system risks and data protection breaches could present significant reputational, legal and regulatory costs. Popular is under continuous threat of cyber-attacks especially as we continue to expand customer services via the internet and other remote service channels. The most significant cyber–attack risks that we may face are e-fraud, denial-of-service and computer intrusion that might result in loss of sensitive customer data. Loss from e-fraud occurs when cybercriminals breach and extract funds from customer or bank accounts. Denial-of-service disrupts services available to our customers through our on-line banking system. Computer intrusion attempts might result in the breach of sensitive customer data, such as account numbers and social security numbers, and could present significant reputational, legal and/or regulatory costs to Popular if successful. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of the evolving nature and complexity of the threats from organized cybercriminals and hackers, and our plans to continue to provide e-banking and mobile banking services to our customers. We have not, to date, experienced any material losses as a result of cyber-attacks. If personal, non-public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure Third parties provide key components of our business operations such as data processing, information security, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, Internet connections and network access. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to 42 Table of Contents handle current or higher volumes, failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason or poor performance of services, failure of a vendor to notify us of a reportable event, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. Financial or operational difficulties of a third party vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor’s ability to serve us. Replacing these third party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to our business operations. Hurricanes and other weather-related events, as well as man-made disasters, could cause a disruption in our operations or other consequences that could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. A significant portion of our operations are located in a region susceptible to hurricanes. Such weather events can cause disruption to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. We maintain hurricane insurance, including coverage for lost profits and extra expense; however, there is no insurance against the disruption to the markets that we serve that a catastrophic hurricane could produce. Further, a hurricane in any of our market areas could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to timely repay their loans and may adversely impact the value of any collateral held by us. Man-made disasters and other events connected with the region in which we are located could have similar effects. The severity and impact of future hurricanes and other weather-related events are difficult to predict and may be exacerbated by global climate change. The effects of past or future hurricanes and other weather-related events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. For further information of other risks faced by Popular please refer to the Management Discussion & Analysis section of the Annual Report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 