Item 1A. Risk Factors and the section captioned “Forward‑Looking Statements” in Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Report and other cautionary statements set forth elsewhere in this Report. PART I Item 1. Business. South State Corporation (formerly First Financial Holdings, Inc. (from July 26, 2013 through June 29, 2014) and SCBT Financial Corporation (from February 20, 2004 through July 25, 2013)), headquartered in Columbia, South Carolina, is a bank holding company incorporated in 1985 under the laws of South Carolina. We provide a wide range of banking services and products to our customers through our wholly‑owned bank subsidiary, South State Bank (formerly SCBT) (the “Bank”), a South Carolina‑chartered commercial bank that opened for business in 1934. The Bank operates Minis & Co., Inc. and First Southeast 401k Fiduciaries, both wholly owned registered investment advisors, and First Southeast Investor Services, a wholly‑owned limited service broker‑dealer. We do not engage in any significant operations other than the ownership of our banking subsidiary. Unless otherwise mentioned or unless the context requires otherwise, references herein to “South State,” the “Company” “we,” “us,” “our” or similar references mean South State Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. References to the “Bank” means South State Bank, a South Carolina banking corporation. The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank. We coordinate the financial resources of the consolidated enterprise and thereby maintain financial, operation and administrative systems that allow centralized evaluation of subsidiary operations and coordination of selected policies and activities. The Company’s operating revenues and net income are derived primarily from cash dividends received from our Bank. Our Bank provides a full range of retail and commercial banking services, mortgage lending services, trust and investment services, and consumer finance loans through financial centers in South Carolina, North Carolina, northeast Georgia, and coastal Georgia. At December 31, 2015, we had approximately $8.6 billion in assets, $6.0 billion in loans, $7.1 billion in deposits, $1.1 billion in shareholders’ equity, and a market capitalization of approximately $1.7 billion. We began operating in 1934 in Orangeburg, South Carolina and have maintained our ability to provide superior customer service while also leveraging our size to offer many products more common to larger banks. We have pursued a growth strategy that relies on organic growth supplemented by the acquisition of select financial institutions or branches in certain market areas. In recent years, we have continued to grow the business under our guiding principles of soundness, profitability and growth. Below are highlights of our expansion efforts over the past three years: · On August 21, 2015, the Bank completed its acquisition from Bank of America, N.A.(“BOA”) of 12 South Carolina branches located in Florence, Greenwood, Orangeburg, Sumter, Newberry, Batesburg-Leesville, Abbeville and Hartsville, South Carolina, and one Georgia branch located in Hartwell, Georgia. · On July 26, 2013, the Company completed a business combination wherein First Financial Holdings, Inc. (“FFHI”), of Charleston, South Carolina, a bank holding company, merged into the Company, and the Company also changed its name from “SCBT Financial Corporation” to “First Financial Holdings, Inc.” First Federal Bank merged into the Bank. The remaining subsidiaries became subsidiaries of the Bank, which included First Southeast 401k Fiduciaries, a wholly‑owned registered investment advisor, and First Southeast Investor Services, a wholly‑owned broker‑dealer. Our principal executive offices are located at 520 Gervais Street, Columbia, South Carolina 29201. Our mailing address at this facility is Post Office Box 1030, Columbia, South Carolina 29202 and our telephone number is (800) 277‑2175. 2 Table of Contents Available Information We provide our Annual Reports on Form 10‑K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10‑Q, Current Reports on Form 8‑K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) on our website at www.southstatebank.com. These filings are made accessible as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). These filings are also accessible on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. In addition, we make available under the Investor Relations section on our website (www.southstatebank.com) the following, among other things: (i) Corporate Governance Guidelines, (ii) Code of Ethics, which applies to our directors and all employees, and (iii) the charters of the Audit, Compensation, Executive, Wealth Management and Trust, Risk, and Corporate Governance & Nominating Committees of our board of directors. These materials are available to the general public on our website free of charge. Printed copies of these materials are also available free of charge to shareholders who request them in writing. Please address your request to: Financial Management Division, South State Corporation, 520 Gervais Street, Columbia, South Carolina 29201. Statements of beneficial ownership of equity securities filed by directors, officers, and 10% or greater shareholders under Section 16 of the Exchange Act are also available through our website, www.southstatebank.com. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. Territory Served and Competition We serve customers and conduct our business from 127 financial centers in 24 South Carolina counties, four North Carolina counties, 11 northeast Georgia counties, and two coastal Georgia counties. We compete in the highly competitive banking and financial services industry. Our profitability depends principally on our ability to effectively compete in the markets in which we conduct business. We expect competition in the industry to continue to increase as a result of consolidation among banking and financial services firms. Competition may further intensify as additional companies enter the markets where we conduct business and we enter mature markets in accordance with our expansion strategy. We experience strong competition from both bank and non‑bank competitors in certain markets. Broadly speaking, we compete with national banks, super‑ regional banks, smaller community banks, and non‑traditional internet‑based banks. We compete for deposits and loans with commercial banks, and credit unions. In addition, we compete with other financial intermediaries and investment alternatives such as mortgage companies, credit card issuers, leasing companies, finance companies, money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, governmental and corporation bonds, and other securities firms. Many of these non‑bank competitors are not subject to the same regulatory oversight, affording them a competitive advantage in some instances. In many cases, our competitors have substantially greater resources and offer certain services that we are unable to provide to our customers. We encounter strong competition in making loans and attracting deposits. We compete with other financial institutions to offer customers competitive interest rates on deposit accounts, competitive interest rates charged on loans and other credit, and reasonable service charges. We believe our customers also consider the quality and scope of the services provided, the convenience of banking facilities, and relative lending limits in the case of loans to commercial borrowers. Our customers may also take into account the fact that other banks offer different services from those that we provide. The large national and super‑regional banks may have significantly greater lending limits and may offer additional products. However, by emphasizing customer service and by providing a wide variety of services, we believe that our Bank has been able to compete successfully with our competitors, regardless of their size. Employees As of December 31, 2015, our Bank had 2,058 full‑time equivalent employees compared to 2,081 as of the same date in 2014. We consider our relationship with our employees instrumental to the success of our business. We provide most of our employees with a comprehensive employee benefit program which includes the following: group life, health and dental insurance, paid vacation, sick leave, educational opportunities, a cash incentive plan, a stock purchase plan, stock incentive plan for officers and key employees, deferred compensation plans for officers and key employees, a defined benefit pension plan for employees hired on or before December 31, 2005 (except for employees acquired in the SunBank acquisition in November of 2005), and a 401(k) plan with employer match. 3 Table of Contents Regulation and Supervision As a financial institution, we operate under a regulatory framework. The framework outlines a regulatory environment applicable to financial holding companies, bank holding companies, and their subsidiaries. Below, we have provided some specific information relevant to the Company. The regulatory framework under which we operate is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s (the “FDIC”) Deposit Insurance Fund and not for the protection of our security holders and creditors. To the extent that the following information describes statutory and regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statutory and regulatory provisions. General The current regulatory environment for financial institutions includes substantial enforcement activity by the federal banking agencies, the U.S. Department of Justice, the SEC, and other state and federal law enforcement agencies. This environment entails significant potential increases in compliance requirements and associated costs. We are a bank holding company registered with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and are subject to the supervision of, and to regular inspection by, the Federal Reserve Board. In addition, as a South Carolina bank holding company organized under the South Carolina Banking and Branching Efficiency Act, we are subject to limitations on sale or merger and to regulation by the South Carolina Board of Financial Institutions (the “SCBFI”). Our Bank is organized as a South Carolina‑chartered commercial bank. It is subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the SCBFI and the FDIC. The following discussion summarizes certain aspects of banking and other laws and regulations that affect the Company and our Bank. Under the Bank Holding Company Act (the “BHC Act”), our activities and those of our Bank are limited to banking, managing or controlling banks, furnishing services to or performing services for our Bank, or any other activity which the Federal Reserve Board determines to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. The BHC Act requires prior Federal Reserve Board approval for, among other things, the acquisition by a bank holding company of direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all the assets of any bank, or for a merger or consolidation of a bank holding company with another bank holding company. The BHC Act also prohibits a bank holding company from acquiring direct or indirect control of more than 5% of the outstanding voting stock of any company engaged in a non‑banking business unless such business is determined by the Federal Reserve Board to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. Further, under South Carolina law, it is unlawful without the prior approval of the SCBFI for any South Carolina bank holding company (i) to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank or any other bank holding company, (ii) to acquire all or substantially all of the assets of a bank or any other bank holding company, or (iii) to merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company. The Gramm‑Leach‑Bliley Act amended a number of federal banking laws affecting the Company and our Bank. In particular, the Gramm‑Leach‑Bliley Act permits a bank holding company to elect to become a “financial holding company,” provided certain conditions are met. A financial holding company, and the companies it controls, are permitted to engage in activities considered “financial in nature” as defined by the Gramm‑Leach‑Bliley Act and Federal Reserve Board interpretations (including, without limitation, insurance and securities activities), and therefore may engage in a broader range of activities than permitted by bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. We remain a bank holding company, but may at some time in the future elect to become a financial holding company. Interstate Banking Federal legislation permits out-of-state acquisitions by bank holding companies, interstate branching by banks, and interstate merging by banks. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, which was signed into law in July 2010 and is discussed more fully below (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), removed previous state law restrictions on de novo interstate branching in states such as South Carolina, North Carolina, and Georgia. This change effectively permits out‑of‑state banks to open de novo branches in states where the laws of such state would permit a bank chartered by that sate to open a de novo branch. 4 Table of Contents Obligations of Holding Company to its Subsidiary Banks There are a number of obligations and restrictions imposed by law and regulatory policy on bank holding companies with regard to their depository institution subsidiaries that are designed to minimize potential loss to depositors and to the FDIC insurance fund in the event that the depository institution becomes in danger of defaulting under its obligations to repay deposits. Under a policy of the Federal Reserve Board, which was confirmed in the Dodd‑Frank Act, a bank holding company is required to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary depository institutions and to commit resources to support such institutions in circumstances where it might not do so absent such policy. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”), to avoid receivership of its insured depository institution subsidiary, a bank holding company is required to guarantee the compliance of any insured depository institution subsidiary that may become “undercapitalized” within the terms of any capital restoration plan filed by such subsidiary with its appropriate federal banking agency up to the lesser of (i) an amount equal to 5% of the institution’s total assets at the time the institution became undercapitalized, or (ii) the amount which is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the institution into compliance with all applicable capital standards as of the time the institution fails to comply with such capital restoration plan. The Federal Reserve Board also has the authority under the BHC Act to require a bank holding company to terminate any activity or relinquish control of a nonbank subsidiary (other than a nonbank subsidiary of a bank) upon the Federal Reserve Board’s determination that such activity or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial soundness or stability of any subsidiary depository institution of the bank holding company. Further, federal law grants federal bank regulatory authorities additional discretion to require a bank holding company to divest itself of any bank or nonbank subsidiary if the agency determines that divestiture may aid the depository institution’s financial condition. In addition, the “cross guarantee” provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (“FDIA”) require insured depository institutions under common control to reimburse the FDIC for any loss suffered or reasonably anticipated by the FDIC as a result of the default of a commonly controlled insured depository institution or for any assistance provided by the FDIC to a commonly controlled insured depository institution in danger of default. The FDIC’s claim for damages is superior to claims of shareholders of the insured depository institution or its holding company, but is subordinate to claims of depositors, secured creditors and holders of subordinated debt (other than affiliates) of the commonly controlled insured depository institutions. The FDIA also provides that amounts received from the liquidation or other resolution of any insured depository institution by any receiver must be distributed (after payment of secured claims) to pay the deposit liabilities of the institution prior to payment of any other general or unsecured senior liability, subordinated liability, general creditor or shareholder. This provision would give depositors a preference over general and subordinated creditors and shareholders in the event a receiver is appointed to distribute the assets of our Bank. Any capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. The Dodd‑Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act The Dodd‑Frank Act was signed into law in July 2010. The Dodd‑Frank Act impacts financial institutions in numerous ways, including: · The creation of a Financial Stability Oversight Council responsible for monitoring and managing systemic risk, · Granting additional authority to the Federal Reserve to regulate certain types of nonbank financial companies, · Granting new authority to the FDIC as liquidator and receiver, · Changing the manner in which deposit insurance assessments are made, 5 Table of Contents · Requiring regulators to modify capital standards, · Establishing the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”), · Capping interchange fees that banks with assets of $10 billion or more charge merchants for debit card transactions, · Imposing more stringent requirements on mortgage lenders, and · Limiting banks’ proprietary trading activities. There are many provisions in the Dodd‑Frank Act mandating regulators to adopt new regulations and conduct studies upon which future regulation may be based. While some have been issued, many remain to be issued. Governmental intervention and new regulations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Basel Capital Standards Regulatory capital rules released in July 2013 to implement capital standards referred to as Basel III and developed by an international body known as the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, impose higher minimum capital requirements for bank holding companies and banks. The rules apply to all national and state banks and savings associations regardless of size and bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies with more than $1 billion in total consolidated assets. More stringent requirements are imposed on “advanced approaches” banking organizations-those organizations with $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets, $10 billion or more in total foreign exposures, or that have opted in to the Basel II capital regime. The requirements in the rule began to phase in on January 1, 2015, for us. The requirements in the rule will be fully phased in by January 1, 2019. The rule includes certain new and higher risk-based capital and leverage requirements than those currently in place. Specifically, the following minimum capital requirements apply to us: · a new common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5%; · a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% (increased from the former 4% requirement); · a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from the former requirement); and · a leverage ratio of 4% (also unchanged from the former requirement). Under the rule, Tier 1 capital is redefined to include two components: Common Equity Tier 1 capital and additional Tier 1 capital. The new and highest form of capital, Common Equity Tier 1 capital, consists solely of common stock (plus related surplus), retained earnings, accumulated other comprehensive income, and limited amounts of minority interests that are in the form of common stock. Additional Tier 1 capital includes other perpetual instruments historically included in Tier 1 capital, such as noncumulative perpetual preferred stock. Tier 2 capital generally consists of instruments that previously qualified as Tier 2 capital plus instruments that the rule has disqualified from Tier 1 capital treatment. Cumulative perpetual preferred stock, formerly includable in Tier 1 capital, is now included only in Tier 2 capital; except that the rule permits bank holding companies with less than $15 billion in total consolidated assets to continue to include trust preferred securities and cumulative perpetual preferred stock issued before May 19, 2010 in Tier 1 Capital (but not in Common Equity Tier 1 capital), subject to certain restrictions. Accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) is presumptively included in Common Equity Tier 1 capital and often would operate to reduce this category of capital. The rule provided a one-time opportunity at the end of the first quarter of 2015 for covered banking organizations to opt out of much of this treatment of AOCI. We made this opt-out election and, as a result, will retain the pre-existing treatment for AOCI. In addition, in order to avoid restrictions on capital distributions or discretionary bonus payments to executives, a covered banking organization must maintain a “capital conservation buffer” on top of its minimum risk-based capital requirements. This buffer must consist solely of Tier 1 Common Equity, but the buffer applies to all three measurements 6 Table of Contents (Common Equity Tier 1, Tier 1 capital and total capital). The capital conservation buffer will be phased in incrementally over time, becoming fully effective on January 1, 2019, and will consist of an additional amount of common equity equal to 2.5% of risk-weighted assets. As of January 1, 2016, we are required to hold a capital conservation buffer of 0.625%, increasing by that amount each successive year until 2019. In general, the rules have had the effect of increasing capital requirements by increasing the risk weights on certain assets, including high volatility commercial real estate, certain loans past due 90 days or more or in nonaccrual status, mortgage servicing rights not includable in Common Equity Tier 1 capital, equity exposures, and claims on securities firms, that are used in the denominator of the three risk-based capital ratios. Volcker Rule Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, known as the “Volcker Rule,” prohibits any bank, bank holding company, or affiliate (referred to collectively as “banking entities”) from engaging in two types of activities: “proprietary trading” and the ownership or sponsorship of private equity or hedge funds that are referred to as “covered funds.” Proprietary trading is, in general, trading in securities on a short-term basis for a banking entity's own account. Funds subject to the ownership and sponsorship prohibition are those not required to register with the SEC because they have only accredited investors or no more than 100 investors. In December 2013, our primary federal regulators, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC, together with other federal banking agencies, the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, finalized a regulation to implement the Volcker Rule. At December 31, 2015, the Company has evaluated our securities portfolio and has determined that we do not hold any covered funds. Prompt Corrective Action As an insured depository institution, the Bank is required to comply with the capital requirements promulgated under the FDIA and the prompt corrective action regulations thereunder, which set forth five capital categories, each with specific regulatory consequences. Under these regulations, the categories are: · Well Capitalized — The institution exceeds the required minimum level for each relevant capital measure. A well capitalized institution (i) has total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater, (ii) has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8% or greater, (iii) has a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.5% or greater, (iv) has a leverage capital ratio of 5% or greater, and (v) is not subject to any order or written directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. · Adequately Capitalized — The institution meets the required minimum level for each relevant capital measure. No capital distribution may be made that would result in the institution becoming undercapitalized. An adequately capitalized institution (i) has a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% or greater, (ii) has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% or greater, (iii) has a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5% or greater, and (iv) has a leverage capital ratio of 4% or greater. · Undercapitalized — The institution fails to meet the required minimum level for any relevant capital measure. An undercapitalized institution (i) has a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 8%, (ii) has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 6%, (iii) has a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4.5%, or (iv) has a leverage capital ratio of less than 4%. · Significantly Undercapitalized — The institution is significantly below the required minimum level for any relevant capital measure. A significantly undercapitalized institution (i) has a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 6%, (ii) has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4%, (iii) has a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 3%, or (iv) has a leverage capital ratio of less than 3%. · Critically Undercapitalized — The institution fails to meet a critical capital level set by the appropriate federal banking agency. A critically undercapitalized institution has a ratio of tangible equity to total assets that is equal to or less than 2%. If the applicable federal regulator determines, after notice and an opportunity for hearing, that the institution is in an unsafe or unsound condition, the regulator is authorized to reclassify the institution to the next lower capital 7 Table of Contents category (other than critically undercapitalized) and require the submission of a plan to correct the unsafe or unsound condition. If the institution is not well capitalized, it cannot accept brokered deposits without prior FDIC approval. Even if approved, rate restrictions will govern the rate the institution may pay on the brokered deposits. In addition, a bank that is undercapitalized cannot offer an effective yield in excess of 75 basis points over the “national rate” paid on deposits (including brokered deposits, if approval is granted for the bank to accept them) of comparable size and maturity. The “national rate” is defined as a simple average of rates paid by insured depository institutions and branches for which data are available and is published weekly by the FDIC. Institutions subject to the restrictions that believe they are operating in an area where the rates paid on deposits are higher than the “national rate” can use the local market to determine the prevailing rate if they seek and receive a determination from the FDIC that it is operating in a high‑rate area. Regardless of the determination, institutions must use the national rate to determine conformance for all deposits outside their market area. Moreover, if the institution becomes less than adequately capitalized, it must adopt a capital restoration plan acceptable to the FDIC. The institution also would become subject to increased regulatory oversight, and is increasingly restricted in the scope of its permissible activities. Each company having control over an undercapitalized institution also must provide a limited guarantee that the institution will comply with its capital restoration plan. Except under limited circumstances consistent with an accepted capital restoration plan, an undercapitalized institution may not grow. An undercapitalized institution may not acquire another institution, establish additional branch offices or engage in any new line of business unless it is determined by the appropriate federal banking agency to be consistent with an accepted capital restoration plan, or unless the FDIC determines that the proposed action will further the purpose of prompt corrective action. The appropriate federal banking agency may take any action authorized for a significantly undercapitalized institution if an undercapitalized institution fails to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan or fails in any material respect to implement a plan accepted by the agency. A critically undercapitalized institution is subject to having a receiver or conservator appointed to manage its affairs and for loss of its charter to conduct banking activities. An insured depository institution may not pay a management fee to a bank holding company controlling that institution or any other person having control of the institution if, after making the payment, the institution would be undercapitalized. In addition, an institution cannot make a capital distribution, such as a dividend or other distribution, that is in substance a distribution of capital to the owners of the institution if following such a distribution the institution would be undercapitalized. As of December 31, 2015, the Bank was deemed to be “well capitalized.” Payment of Dividends The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank. The Federal Reserve Board has issued a policy statement on the payment of cash dividends by bank holding companies, which expresses the Federal Reserve Board’s view that a bank holding company generally should pay cash dividends only to the extent that the holding company’s net income for the past year is sufficient to cover both the cash dividends and a rate of earnings retention that is consistent with the holding company’s capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. The Federal Reserve Board also indicated that it would be inappropriate for a bank holding company experiencing serious financial problems to borrow funds to pay dividends. Funds for cash distributions to our shareholders are derived primarily from dividends received from our Bank. Our Bank is subject to various general regulatory policies and requirements relating to the payment of dividends. Any restriction on the ability of our Bank to pay dividends will indirectly restrict the ability of the Company to pay dividends. The Company pays cash dividends to shareholders from its assets, which are mainly provided by dividends from the Bank. However, certain restrictions exist regarding the ability of its subsidiary to transfer funds to the Company in form of cash dividends, loans or advances. The approval of the SCBFI is required to pay dividends that exceed the current year’s net income. The Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, and the OCC have issued policy statements which provide that bank holding companies and insured banks should generally only pay dividends out of current operating earnings. The ability of the Company and the Bank to pay dividends may also be affected by the various minimum capital requirements and the capital and non‑capital standards established under the FDICIA, as described above. The right of 8 Table of Contents the Company, its shareholders, and its creditors to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of its subsidiary is further subject to the prior claims of creditors of our Bank. Certain Transactions by the Company and its Affiliates Various legal limitations restrict the Bank from lending or otherwise supplying funds to the Company or its non‑bank subsidiaries. The Company and the Bank are subject to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Federal Reserve Regulation W. Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act places limits on the amount of loans or extensions of credit to, or investments in, or certain other transactions with, affiliates and on the amount of advances to third parties collateralized by the securities or obligations of affiliates. Section 23A also applies to derivative transactions, repurchase agreements and securities lending and borrowing transactions that cause a bank to have credit exposure to an affiliate. The aggregate of all covered transactions is limited in amount, as to any one affiliate, to 10% of the Bank’s capital and surplus and, as to all affiliates combined, to 20% of the Bank’s capital and surplus. Furthermore, within the foregoing limitations as to amount, each covered transaction must meet specified collateral requirements. The Bank is forbidden to purchase low quality assets from an affiliate. Section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, among other things, prohibits a bank from engaging in certain transactions with certain affiliates unless the transactions are on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to such bank or its subsidiaries, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with or involving other nonaffiliated companies. If there are no comparable transactions, a bank’s (or one of its subsidiaries’) affiliate transaction must be on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, that in good faith would be offered to, or would apply to, nonaffiliated companies. These requirements apply to all transactions subject to Section 23A as well as to certain other transactions. The affiliates of a bank include any holding company of the bank, any other company under common control with the bank (including any company controlled by the same shareholders who control the bank), any subsidiary of the bank that is itself a bank, any company in which the majority of the directors or trustees also constitute a majority of the directors or trustees of the bank or holding company of the bank, any company sponsored and advised on a contractual basis by the bank or an affiliate, and any mutual fund advised by a bank or any of the bank’s affiliates. Regulation W generally excludes all non‑bank and non‑savings association subsidiaries of banks from treatment as affiliates, except to the extent that the Federal Reserve Board decides to treat these subsidiaries as affiliates. The Bank is also subject to certain restrictions on extensions of credit to executive officers, directors, certain principal shareholders, and their related interests. Extensions of credit include derivative transactions, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, and securities borrowing and lending transactions to the extent that such transactions cause a bank to have credit exposure to an insider. Any extension of credit to an insider: · must be made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with third parties; and · must not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features. Insurance of Deposits The deposits of the Bank are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC. The Dodd‑Frank Act permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings associations and credit unions to $250,000 per account. As insurer, the FDIC imposes deposit insurance premiums and is authorized to conduct examinations of and to require reporting by FDIC insured institutions. It also may prohibit any FDIC insured institution from engaging in any activity the FDIC determines by regulation or order to pose a serious risk to the insurance fund. FDIC insured institutions are required to pay a Financing Corporation assessment to fund the interest on bonds issued to resolve thrift failures in the 1980s. These assessments, which may be revised based upon the level of deposits, will continue until the bonds mature in the years 2017 through 2019. 9 Table of Contents The FDIC may terminate the deposit insurance of any insured depository institution if it determines after a notice and hearing that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. It also may suspend deposit insurance temporarily during the hearing process for the permanent termination of insurance if the institution has no tangible capital. If insurance of accounts is terminated, the accounts at the institution at the time of the termination, less subsequent withdrawals, remain insured for a period of six months to two years, as determined by the FDIC. Management is not aware of any practice, condition or violation that might lead to termination of the Bank’s deposit insurance. Incentive Compensation In June 2010, the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the OCC issued comprehensive final guidance on incentive compensation policies intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging excessive risk‑taking. The guidance, which covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon the key principles that a banking organization’s incentive compensation arrangements should (i) provide incentives that do not encourage risk‑taking beyond the organization’s ability to effectively identify and manage risks, (ii) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (iii) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the organization’s board of directors. The Federal Reserve Board will review, as part of the regular, risk‑ focused examination process, the incentive compensation arrangements of banking organizations, such as the Company, that are not “large, complex banking organizations.” These reviews will be tailored to each organization based on the scope and complexity of the organization’s activities and the prevalence of incentive compensation arrangements. The findings of the supervisory initiatives will be included in reports of examination. Deficiencies will be incorporated into the organization’s supervisory ratings, which can affect the organization’s ability to make acquisitions and take other actions. Enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements, or related risk‑management control or governance processes, pose a risk to the organization’s safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. Anti‑Tying Restrictions Under amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act and Federal Reserve Board regulations, a bank is prohibited from engaging in certain tying or reciprocity arrangements with its customers. In general, a bank may not extend credit, lease, sell property, or furnish any services or fix or vary the consideration for these on the condition that: · the customer obtain or provide some additional credit, property, or services from or to the bank, the bank holding company or its subsidiaries; or · the customer not obtain some other credit, property, or services from a competitor, except to the extent reasonable conditions are imposed to assure the soundness of the credit extended. Certain arrangements are permissible: a bank may offer combined‑balance products and may otherwise offer more favorable terms if a customer obtains two or more traditional bank products; and certain foreign transactions are exempt from the general rule. A bank holding company or any bank affiliate also is subject to anti‑tying requirements in connection with electronic benefit transfer services. Community Reinvestment Act The Community Reinvestment Act (the “CRA”) requires a financial institution’s primary regulator, which is the FDIC for the Bank, to evaluate the record of each financial institution in meeting the credit needs of its local community, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. These factors are also considered in evaluating mergers, acquisitions and applications to open a branch or facility. Failure to adequately meet these criteria could result in the imposition of additional requirements and limitations on the institution. Additionally, the institution must publicly disclose the terms of various Community Reinvestment Act‑related agreements. In its most recent CRA examination, the Bank received a “satisfactory” rating. 10 Table of Contents Consumer Protection Regulations Activities of the Bank are subject to a variety of statutes and regulations designed to protect consumers. Interest and other charges collected or contracted for by the Bank are subject to state usury laws and federal laws concerning interest rates. The loan operations of the Bank are also subject to federal laws and regulations applicable to credit transactions, such as: · the Dodd‑Frank Act that created the CFPB within the Federal Reserve Board, which has broad rule‑making authority over a wide range of consumer laws that apply to all insured depository institutions; · the federal Truth‑In‑Lending Act and Regulation Z, governing disclosures of credit terms to consumer borrowers and including substantial new requirements for mortgage lending, as mandated by the Dodd‑Frank Act; · the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 and Regulation C, requiring financial institutions to provide information to enable the public and public officials to determine whether a financial institution is fulfilling its obligation to help meet the housing needs of the community it serves; · the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B, prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, or other prohibited factors in extending credit; · the Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1978, as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act and Regulation V, as well as the rules and regulations of the FDIC, governing the use and provision of information to credit reporting agencies, certain identity theft protections and certain credit and other disclosures; · the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and Regulation F, governing the manner in which consumer debts may be collected by collection agencies; and · the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and Regulation X, which governs aspects of the settlement process for residential mortgage loans. The deposit operations of the Bank are also subject to federal laws, such as: · the Right to Financial Privacy Act, which imposes a duty to maintain confidentiality of consumer financial records and prescribes procedures for complying with administrative subpoenas of financial records; · the Electronic Funds Transfer Act and Regulation E, which governs automatic deposits to and withdrawals from deposit accounts and customers’ rights and liabilities arising from the use of automated teller machines and other electronic banking services; · the Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act (also known as “Check 21”), which gives “substitute checks,” such as digital check images and copies made from that image, the same legal standing as the original paper check; and · the Truth in Savings Act and Regulation DD, which requires depository institutions to provide disclosures so that consumers can make meaningful comparisons about depository institutions. Enforcement Powers The Bank and its “institution‑affiliated parties,” including its management, employees, agents, independent contractors, and consultants such as attorneys and accountants and others who participate in the conduct of the financial institution’s affairs, are subject to potential civil and criminal penalties for violations of law, regulations or written orders of a government agency. These practices can include the failure of an institution to timely file required reports or the filing of false or misleading information or the submission of inaccurate reports. Potential civil penalties have been substantially increased. Criminal penalties for some financial institution crimes have been increased to 20 years. 11 Table of Contents In addition, regulators are provided with considerable flexibility to commence enforcement actions against institutions and institution‑affiliated parties. Possible enforcement actions include the termination of deposit insurance. Furthermore, banking agencies’ have expansive power to issue cease‑and‑desist orders. These orders may, among other things, require affirmative action to correct any harm resulting from a violation or practice, including restitution, reimbursement, indemnifications or guarantees against loss. A financial institution may also be ordered to restrict its growth, dispose of certain assets, rescind agreements or contracts or take other actions as determined by the ordering agency to be appropriate. The number of government entities authorized to take action against the Bank has expanded under the Dodd‑Frank Act. The FDIC continues to have primary federal enforcement authority, and the SCBFI also has enforcement authority, with respect to the Bank. In addition, the CFPB also has back‑up enforcement authority with respect to the consumer protection statutes above. Specifically, the CFPB may request reports from and conduct limited examinations of the Bank in conducting investigations involving the consumer protection statutes. Further, state attorneys general may bring civil actions or other proceedings under the Dodd‑Frank Act or regulations against state‑chartered banks, including the Bank. Prior notice to the CFPB and the FDIC would be necessary for an action against the Bank. Anti‑Money Laundering Financial institutions must maintain anti‑money laundering programs that include established internal policies, procedures and controls; a designated compliance officer; an ongoing employee training program; and testing of the program by an independent audit function. Financial institutions are also prohibited from entering into specified financial transactions and account relationships and must meet enhanced standards for due diligence and “knowing your customer” in their dealings with foreign financial institutions, foreign customers and other high risk customers. Financial institutions must take reasonable steps to conduct enhanced scrutiny of account relationships to guard against money laundering and to report any suspicious transactions, and recent laws provide law enforcement authorities with increased access to financial information maintained by banks. Anti‑money laundering obligations have been substantially strengthened as a result of the USA PATRIOT Act (the “Patriot Act”), enacted in 2001 and renewed through 2015, as described below. Bank regulators routinely examine institutions for compliance with these obligations, and this area has become a particular focus of the regulators in recent years. In addition, the regulators are required to consider compliance in connection with the regulatory review of applications. The regulatory authorities have been active in imposing “cease and desist” orders and money penalty sanctions against institutions found to be violating these obligations. USA PATRIOT Act The Patriot Act became effective on October 26, 2001 and amended the Bank Secrecy Act. The Patriot Act provides, in part, for the facilitation of information sharing among governmental entities and financial institutions for the purpose of combating terrorism and money laundering by enhancing anti‑ money laundering and financial transparency laws, as well as enhanced information collection tools and enforcement mechanics for the U.S. government, including: · requiring standards for verifying customer identification at account opening; · rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering; · reports by nonfinancial trades and businesses filed with the Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network for transactions exceeding $10,000; and · filing suspicious activities reports by brokers and dealers if they believe a customer may be violating U.S. laws and regulations. The Patriot Act requires financial institutions to undertake enhanced due diligence of private bank accounts or correspondent accounts for non‑U.S. persons that they administer, maintain, or manage. Bank regulators routinely examine institutions for compliance with these obligations and are required to consider compliance in connection with the regulatory review of applications. 12 Table of Contents Under the Patriot Act, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (“FinCEN”) can send the Bank a list of the names of persons suspected of involvement in terrorist activities or money laundering. The Bank may be requested to search its records for any relationships or transactions with persons on the list. If the Bank finds any relationships or transactions, it must report those relationships or transactions to FinCEN. The Office of Foreign Assets Control The Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”), which is an office in the U.S. Department of the Treasury, is responsible for helping to ensure that U.S. entities do not engage in transactions with “enemies” of the United States, as defined by various Executive Orders and Acts of Congress. OFAC publishes lists of names of persons and organizations suspected of aiding, harboring or engaging in terrorist acts; owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf of target countries, and narcotics traffickers. If a bank finds a name on any transaction, account or wire transfer that is on an OFAC list, it must freeze or block the transactions on the account. The Bank has appointed a compliance officer to oversee the inspection of its accounts and the filing of any notifications. The Bank actively checks high‑risk OFAC areas such as new accounts, wire transfers and customer files. These checks are performed using software that is updated each time a modification is made to the lists provided by OFAC and other agencies of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons. Privacy and Credit Reporting Financial institutions are required to disclose their policies for collecting and protecting confidential information. Customers generally may prevent financial institutions from sharing nonpublic personal financial information with nonaffiliated third parties except under narrow circumstances, such as the processing of transactions requested by the consumer or when the financial institution is jointly sponsoring a product or service with a nonaffiliated third party. Additionally, financial institutions generally may not disclose consumer account numbers to any nonaffiliated third party for use in telemarketing, direct mail marketing or other marketing to consumers. The Bank’s policy is not to disclose any personal information unless permitted by law. Like other lending institutions, the Bank uses credit bureau data in its underwriting activities. Use of that data is regulated under the Federal Credit Reporting Act on a uniform, nationwide basis, including credit reporting, prescreening, sharing of information between affiliates, and the use of credit data. The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 allows states to enact identity theft laws that are not inconsistent with the conduct required by the provisions of the act. Fiscal and Monetary Policy Banking is a business that depends largely on interest rate differentials. In general, the difference between the interest we pay on our deposits and other borrowings, and the interest we receive on our loans and securities holdings, constitutes the major portion of our bank’s earnings. Thus, our earnings and growth will be subject to the influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. The Federal Reserve Board regulates, among other things, the supply of money through various means, including open‑market dealings in United States government securities, the discount rate at which banks may borrow from the Federal Reserve Board, and the reserve requirements on deposits. We cannot predict the nature and timing of any changes in such policies and their impact on our business. Proposed Legislation and Regulatory Action New regulations and statutes are regularly proposed that contain wide‑ ranging provisions for altering the structures, regulations and competitive relationships of the nation’s financial institutions. We cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed regulation or statute will be adopted or the extent to which our business may be affected by any new regulation or statute. 13 Table of Contents Executive Officers of South State Corporation Executive officers of South State Corporation are elected by the board of directors annually and serve at the pleasure of the board of directors. The executive officers and their ages, positions over the past five years, and terms of office as of February 19, 2016, are as follows: Name (age) Position and Five Year History With theCompany Since Robert R. Hill, Jr. (49) Chief Executive Officer and Director, President (2004 —2013) 1995 John C. Pollok (50) Senior Executive Vice President, Director, Chief Financial Officer (2007 —2010, 2012—Present) and Chief Operating Officer 1996 Joseph E. Burns (61) Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Credit Officer (2000—2009, 2013—Present) and Chief Risk Officer (2009—2013, 2014—2016) 2000 John F. Windley (63) Chief Banking Officer and President of South State Bank 2002 Renee R. Brooks (46) Chief Administrative Officer and Chief Risk Officer, Corporate Secretary (2009—2014) 1996 None of the above officers are related and there are no arrangements or understandings between them and any other person pursuant to which any of them was elected as an officer, other than arrangements or understandings with the directors or officers of the Company acting solely in their capacities as such. Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business operations and the value of securities issued by us may be adversely affected by certain risk factors, many of which are outside of our control. We believe the risk factors listed could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may also be adversely affected by additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that we currently believe are immaterial to our business operations. If any of such risks actually occur, you could lose part or all of your investment. This Report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. General Business Risks Our business may be adversely affected by economic conditions. Our financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services we offer, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the primary markets where we operate and in the U.S. as a whole. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; high unemployment, natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. While economic conditions in our primary markets of South Carolina, North Carolina and Georgia, have shown signs of improvement, there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue. A downturn in economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on the credit quality of our loan portfolio and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Negative developments in the financial industry, the domestic and international credit markets, and the economy in general pose significant challenges for our industry and us and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Negative developments that began in the latter half of 2007 have shown signs of improvement in recent years both nationally and in our primary markets of South Carolina, North Carolina, and Georgia. The competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly given the limited number of qualified borrowers. As a result, we may face the following risks: · economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market may cause the credit quality of our loan portfolio to deteriorate; 14 Table of Contents · market developments that affect consumer confidence may cause adverse changes in payment patterns by our customers, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities; · the processes that we use to estimate our allowance for loan and lease losses and reserves may no longer be reliable because they rely on judgments, such as forecasts of economic conditions, that may no longer be capable of accurate estimation; · the value of our securities portfolio may decline; and · we face increased regulation of our industry, and the costs of compliance with such regulation may increase. These conditions or similar ones may continue to persist or worsen, causing us to experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. Our estimated allowance for loan losses may be inadequate and an increase in the allowance would reduce earnings. We are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to ensure full repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and ability to meet obligations. The volatility and deterioration in domestic markets may also increase our risk for credit losses. The composition of our loan portfolio, primarily secured by real estate, reduces loss exposure. At December 31, 2015, we had approximately 25,199 of non‑acquired and acquired non‑credit impaired loans secured by real estate with an average loan balance of approximately $161,000. At December 31, 2015, we had approximately 52,073 total non‑acquired and acquired non‑credit impaired loans with an average loan balance of approximately $100,000. We evaluate the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses that we believe to be adequate based on a variety of factors including but not limited to: the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans, previous loan loss experience, specific loans that have loss potential, delinquency trends, estimated fair market value of the collateral, current economic conditions, the views of our regulators, and geographic and industry loan concentrations. If our evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults cause loan losses that exceed our allowance for loan losses, our earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. No assurance can be given that the allowance will be adequate to cover loan losses inherent in our portfolio. We may experience losses in our loan portfolio or perceive adverse conditions and trends that may require us to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses in the future, a decision that would reduce earnings. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could hurt our business. A significant portion of our non‑acquired and acquired non-credit impaired loan portfolios is secured by real estate. As of December 31, 2015, approximately 77.1% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. We have identified credit concerns with respect to certain loans in our loan portfolio which are primarily related to the economic downturn that began in the latter half of 2007. This downturn resulted in increased inventories of unsold real estate, higher vacancy rates, lower lease rates and higher foreclosure rates, which in turn caused property values for real estate collateral to decline. While economic conditions and real estate in our primary markets of South Carolina, North Carolina and Georgia have shown signs of improvement, there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue or that our local markets will not experience another economic decline. Deterioration in the real estate market could cause us to adjust our opinion of the level of credit quality in our loan portfolio. Such a determination may lead to an additional increase in our provisions for loan losses, which could also adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we fail to effectively manage credit risk and interest rate risk, our business and financial condition will suffer. We must effectively manage credit risk. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks with respect to the period of time over which the loan may be repaid, risks relating to proper loan underwriting and guidelines, risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions, risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers and risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral. There is no assurance that our credit 15 Table of Contents risk monitoring and loan approval procedures are or will be adequate or will reduce the inherent risks associated with lending. Our credit administration personnel, policies and procedures may not adequately adapt to changes in economic or any other conditions affecting customers and the quality of our loan portfolio. Any failure to manage such credit risks may materially adversely affect our business and our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. We must also effectively manage interest rate risk. Because mortgage loans typically have much longer maturities than deposits or other types of funding, rising interest rates can raise the cost of funding relative to the value of the mortgage. We manage this risk in part by holding adjustable rate mortgages in portfolios and through other means. Conversely, the value of our mortgage servicing assets may fall when interest rates fall, as borrowers refinance into lower‑yield loans. Given current rates, material reductions in rates may not be probable, but as rates rise, then the risk increases. There can be no assurance that we will successfully manage the lending and servicing businesses through all future interest‑rate environments. We are exposed to higher credit risk by commercial real estate, commercial business, and construction lending. Commercial real estate, commercial business and construction lending usually involves higher credit risks than that of single‑family residential lending. These types of loans involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. Commercial real estate loans may be affected to a greater extent than residential loans by adverse conditions in real estate markets or the economy because commercial real estate borrowers’ ability to repay their loans depends on successful development of their properties, as well as the factors affecting residential real estate borrowers. These loans also involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or sell the underlying property in a timely manner. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon whether our initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction equals or exceeds the cost of the property construction (including interest) and the availability of permanent take‑out financing. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns. If estimates of value are inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing the loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan or by seizure of collateral. Commercial business loans are typically based on the borrowers’ ability to repay the loans from the cash flow of their businesses. These loans may involve greater risk because the availability of funds to repay each loan depends substantially on the success of the business itself. In addition, the collateral securing the loans have the following characteristics: (i) depreciate over time, (ii) difficult to appraise and liquidate, and (iii) fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Commercial real estate, commercial business, and construction loans are more susceptible to a risk of loss during a downturn in the business cycle. Our underwriting, review, and monitoring cannot eliminate all of the risks related to these loans. As of December 31, 2015, our non‑acquired and acquired non‑credit impaired outstanding commercial real estate loans were equal to 117.7% of our total risk‑based capital. The banking regulators are giving commercial real estate lending greater scrutiny, and may require banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement enhanced underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures. Repayment of our commercial business loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Our commercial business loans are originated primarily based on the identified cash flow and general liquidity of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower and/or repayment capacity of any guarantor. The borrower’s cash flow may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Although commercial business loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, or other business assets, the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible and inventories may be obsolete or of limited use. In addition, business assets 16 Table of Contents may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise, and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Accordingly, the repayment of commercial business loans depends primarily on the cash flow and credit worthiness of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral value provided by the borrower and liquidity of the guarantor. Changes in local economic conditions where we operate could have a negative effect. Our success depends significantly on growth, or lack thereof, in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in the geographic markets in which we operate. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on our commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans, and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Unlike larger financial institutions that are more geographically diversified, we are a regional banking franchise. Adverse changes in, and further deterioration of, the economic conditions of the Southeast United States in general or in our primary markets in South Carolina, Mecklenburg County and Wilmington, North Carolina, Northeast Georgia, and Savannah, Georgia could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and profitability. While economic conditions in the states of South Carolina, North Carolina, and Georgia, along with the U.S. and worldwide, have shown signs of improvement, there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue. A continuing deterioration in economic conditions could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business: · loan delinquencies may increase; · problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · demand for our products and services may decline; and · collateral for loans that we make, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with the our loans. Liquidity needs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The primary sources of our bank’s funds are client deposits and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay‑offs, inclement weather, natural disasters, which could be exacerbated by potential climate change, and international instability. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, regulatory capital requirements, returns available to clients on alternative investments and general economic conditions. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, sales of securities and loans, and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks, as well as out‑of‑market time deposits. While we believe that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity demands, particularly if we continue to grow and experience increasing loan demand. We may be required to slow or discontinue loan growth, capital expenditures or other investments or liquidate assets should such sources not be adequate. We may make future acquisitions, which could dilute current shareholders’ stock ownership and expose us to additional risks. In accordance with our strategic plan, we evaluate opportunities to acquire other banks and branch locations to expand the Company. As a result, we may engage in acquisitions and other transactions that could have a material effect on our operating results and financial condition, including short and long‑term liquidity. Our acquisition activities could require us to issue a significant number of shares of common stock or other securities and/or to use a substantial amount of cash, other liquid assets, and/or incur debt. In addition, if goodwill recorded in connection with our potential future acquisitions were determined to be impaired, then we would be required to recognize a charge against our earnings, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations during the period in which the impairment was recognized. 17 Table of Contents Our acquisition activities could involve a number of additional risks, including the risks of: · the possibility that expected benefits may not materialize in the timeframe expected or at all, or may be more costly to achieve; · incurring the time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners and negotiating potential transactions, resulting in management’s attention being diverted from the operation of our existing business; · using inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management, and market risks with respect to the target institution or assets; · incurring the time and expense required to integrate the operations and personnel of the combined businesses; · the possibility that we will be unable to successfully implement integration strategies, due to challenges associated with integrating complex systems, technology, banking centers, and other assets of the acquired bank in a manner that minimizes any adverse effect on customers, suppliers, employees, and other constituencies; · the possibility of regulatory approval for the acquisition being delayed, impeded, restrictively conditioned or denied due to existing or new regulatory issues surrounding the Company, the target institution or the proposed combined entity as a result of, among other things, issues related to anti‑money laundering/Bank Secrecy Act compliance, fair lending laws, fair housing laws, consumer protection laws, unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices regulations, or the Community Reinvestment Act, and the possibility that any such issues associated with the target institution, which we may or may not be aware of at the time of the acquisition, could impact the combined entity after completion of the acquisition; · the possibility that the acquisition may not be timely completed, if at all; · creating an adverse short‑term effect on our results of operations; and · losing key employees and customers as a result of an acquisition that is poorly received. If we do not successfully manage these risks, our acquisition activities could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, including short- and long‑term liquidity. Future acquisitions may be delayed, impeded, or prohibited due to regulatory issues. Future acquisitions by the Company, particularly those of financial institutions, are subject to approval by a variety of federal and state regulatory agencies (collectively, “regulatory approvals”). The process for obtaining these required regulatory approvals has become substantially more difficult in recent years. Regulatory approvals could be delayed, impeded, restrictively conditioned or denied due to existing or new regulatory issues we have, or may have, with regulatory agencies, including, without limitation, issues related to anti‑money laundering/Bank Secrecy Act compliance, fair lending laws, fair housing laws, consumer protection laws, unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices regulations, Community Reinvestment Act issues, and other similar laws and regulations. We may fail to pursue, evaluate or complete strategic and competitively significant acquisition opportunities as a result of our inability, or perceived or anticipated inability, to obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, under reasonable conditions or at all. Difficulties associated with potential acquisitions that may result from these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to difficulties in combining the operations of acquired businesses into our own operations, which may prevent us from achieving the expected benefits from our acquisition activities. We may not be able to fully achieve the strategic objectives and operating efficiencies that we anticipate in our acquisition activities. Inherent uncertainties exist in integrating the operations of an acquired business. In addition, the 18 Table of Contents markets and industries in which the Company and our potential acquisition targets operate are highly competitive. We may lose customers or the customers of acquired entities as a result of an acquisition. We also may lose key personnel from the acquired entity as a result of an acquisition. We may not discover all known and unknown factors when examining a company for acquisition during the due diligence period. These factors could produce unintended and unexpected consequences for us. Undiscovered factors as a result of acquisition, pursued by non‑related third party entities, could bring civil, criminal, and financial liabilities against us, our management, and the management of those entities acquired. These factors could contribute to the Company not achieving the expected benefits from its acquisitions within desired time frames. Our ability to continue to receive the benefits of our loss share arrangements with the FDIC is conditioned upon our compliance with certain requirements under the agreements. We are the beneficiary of loss share agreements with the FDIC that call for the FDIC to fund a portion of our losses on a majority of the assets we acquired in connection with our FDIC‑assisted transactions. To recover a portion of our losses and retain the loss share protection, we must comply with certain requirements imposed by the agreements. The requirements of the agreements relate primarily to our administration of the assets covered by the agreements, as well as our obtaining the consent of the FDIC to engage in certain corporate transactions that may be deemed under the agreements to constitute a transfer of the loss share benefits. For example, among other transactions, the following transactions require the consent of the FDIC: · any merger or consolidation of the Company in which our shareholders will own less than sixty‑six and two‑thirds percent (66.66%) of the equity of the consolidated entity (in connection with the merger with FFHI, the FDIC consented to the assumption by the Bank of the First Federal Bank purchase and assumption agreement with the FDIC related to Plantation and Cape Fear), or · any sale of shares of our common stock, or securities convertible into our common stock, by one or more shareholders that will effect a change in control of the Company, as determined by the FDIC with reference to the standards under the Change in Bank Control Act. When the consent of the FDIC is required under the loss share agreements, the FDIC may withhold its consent or may condition its consent on terms that we do not find acceptable. If the FDIC does not grant its consent to a transaction we would like to pursue, or conditions its consent on terms that we do not find acceptable, we may be unable to engage in a corporate transaction that might otherwise benefit our shareholders or we may elect to pursue such a transaction without obtaining the FDIC’s consent, which could result in termination of our loss share agreements with the FDIC. Additionally, the loss sharing agreements have limited terms; therefore, any charge‑off of related losses after the term of the loss sharing agreements will not be reimbursed by the FDIC and will negatively impact our net income. Our loss sharing arrangements with the FDIC will not cover all of our losses on loans we acquired through the acquisitions of Community Bank & Trust (“CBT”), Habersham Bank (“Habersham”), BankMeridian, Plantation Federal Bank (“Plantation”), and Cape Fear Bank (“Cape Fear”). Although we have entered into loss share agreements with the FDIC that provide that the FDIC will bear a significant portion of losses related to specified loan portfolios that we acquired through the acquired banks, we are not protected from all losses resulting from charge‑offs with respect to those specified loan portfolios. Our loss share agreement with the FDIC with respect to Plantation covers losses on certain commercial loans and commercial OREO; it does not cover losses on single‑family residential real estate loans. Additionally, the loss sharing agreements have limited terms (10 years for losses on single‑family residential real estate loans, as defined by the FDIC, five years for losses on non‑residential real estate loans, as defined by the FDIC, and eight years with respect to recoveries on non‑residential real estate loans). Therefore, the FDIC will not reimburse us for any charge‑off or related losses that we experience after the term of the loss share agreements, and any such charge‑offs would negatively impact our net income. Moreover, the loss share provisions in the loss share agreement may be administered improperly, or the FDIC may interpret those provisions in a way different than we do. In any of those events, our losses could increase. 19 Table of Contents The FDIC requires that we make a “true‑up” payment to the FDIC if our realized losses are less than expected. The loss share agreements between the bank and the FDIC with respect to CBT, Habersham, BankMeridian, Plantation, and Cape Fear each contain a provision that obligates us to make a “true‑up” payment to the FDIC if the realized losses of each of these acquired banks are less than expected. The “true‑ up” calculation is scheduled to be made as of the 45th day following the last day of the calendar month of the tenth anniversary of the closing of the acquisitions of the acquired banks. Any such “true‑up” payment that is materially higher than current estimates could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to a need for additional capital resources for the future and these capital resources may not be available when needed or at all. We may need to incur additional debt or equity financing in the future to make strategic acquisitions or investments or to strengthen our capital position. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control and our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that such financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, our current shareholders’ interests could be diluted. Our net interest income may decline based on the interest rate environment. We depend on our net interest income to drive profitability. Differences in volume, yields or interest rates and differences in income earning products such as interest‑earning assets and interest‑bearing liabilities determine our net interest income. We are exposed to changes in general interest rate levels and other economic factors beyond our control. Net interest income may decline in a particular period if: · In a declining interest rate environment, more interest‑earning assets than interest‑bearing liabilities re‑price or mature, or · In a rising interest rate environment, more interest‑bearing liabilities than interest‑earning assets re‑price or mature, or · For acquired loans, expected total cash flows decline. Our net interest income may decline based on our exposure to a difference in short‑term and long‑term interest rates. If the difference between the interest rates shrinks or disappear, the difference between rates paid on deposits and received on loans could narrow significantly resulting in a decrease in net interest income. In addition to these factors, if market interest rates rise rapidly, interest rate adjustment caps may limit increases in the interest rates on adjustable rate loans, thus reducing our net interest income. Also, certain adjustable rate loans re‑price based on lagging interest rate indices. This lagging effect may also negatively impact our net interest income when general interest rates continue to rise periodically. Our primary policy for managing interest rate risk exposure involves monitoring exposure to interest rate increases and decreases of as much as 200 basis points ratably over a 12‑month period. As of December 31, 2015, the earnings simulations indicated that the impact of a 200 basis point increase in rates over 12 months would result in an approximate 1.64% increase in net interest income—as compared with a forward‑rate curve interest rate scenario as the base case. As a result of the current rate environment with federal funds rates between 25 and 50 basis points, simulation analysis does not produce a realistic scenario for the impact of a 200 basis point decrease in rates. These results indicate that our rate sensitivity is somewhat asset sensitive to the indicated change in interest rates over a one‑year horizon. We may not be able to adequately anticipate and respond to changes in market interest rates. We may be unable to anticipate changes in market interest rates, which are affected by many factors beyond our control including but not limited to inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, monetary policy, and other changes that affect financial markets both domestic and foreign. Our net interest income is affected not only by the level and direction of interest rates, but also by the shape of the yield curve and relationships between interest sensitive 20 Table of Contents instruments and key driver rates, as well as balance sheet growth, customer loan and deposit preferences, and the timing of changes in these variables. In the event rates increase, our interest costs on liabilities may increase more rapidly than our income on interest earning assets, thus a deterioration of net interest margins. As such, fluctuations in interest rates could have significant adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to the possibility that more prepayments may be made by customers to pay down loan balances, which could reduce our interest income and profitability. Prepayment rates stem from consumer behavior, conditions in the housing and financial markets, general U.S. economic conditions, and the relative interest rates on fixed‑rate and adjustable‑rate loans. Therefore, changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Recognition of deferred loan origination costs and premiums paid in originating these loans are normally recognized over the contractual life of each loan. As prepayments occur, the rate at which net deferred loan origination costs and premiums are expensed will accelerate. The effect of the acceleration of deferred costs and premium amortization may be mitigated by prepayment penalties paid by the borrower when the loan is paid in full within a certain period of time, which varies between loans. If prepayment occurs after the period of time when the loan is subject to a prepayment penalty, the effect of the acceleration of premium and deferred cost amortization is no longer mitigated. We recognize premiums paid on mortgage‑backed securities as an adjustment from interest income over the expected life of the security based on the rate of repayment of the securities. Acceleration of prepayments on the loans underlying a mortgage‑backed security shortens the life of the security, increases the rate at which premiums are expensed and further reduces interest income. We may not be able to reinvest loan and security prepayments at rates comparable to the prepaid instrument particularly in a period of declining interest rates. Our historical operating results may not be indicative of our future operating results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth, and, consequently, our historical results of operations will not necessarily be indicative of our future operations. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations, and competition, may also impede our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected because a high percentage of our operating costs are fixed expenses. We are exposed to a possible loss of our employees and critical management team. We are dependent on the ability and experience of a number of key management personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, the financial services industry, and the markets in which we offer products and services. The loss of one or more senior executives or key managers may have an adverse effect on our operations. Also, as we continue to grow operations, our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage, and retain other qualified middle management personnel. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to attract or retain such personnel. If we are unable to offer our key management personnel long‑term incentive compensation, including options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units, as part of their total compensation package, we may have difficulty retaining such personnel, which would adversely affect our operations and financial performance. We have historically granted equity awards, including stock options, restricted stock awards or restricted stock units, to key management personnel as part of a competitive compensation package. Our ability to grant equity compensation awards as a part of our total compensation package has been vital to attracting, retaining and aligning shareholder interest with a talented management team in a highly competitive marketplace. In the future, we may seek shareholder approval to adopt new equity compensation plans so that we may issue additional equity awards to management in order for the equity component of our compensation packages to remain competitive in the industry. Shareholder advisory groups have implemented guidelines and issued voting recommendations related to how much equity companies should be able to grant to employees. These advisors influence certain shareholder votes regarding approval of a company’s request for approval of new equity compensation plans. The factors used to formulate these guidelines and voting recommendations include the volatility of a company’s share price and are influenced by broader macro‑economic conditions that can change year to year. The variables used by shareholder advisory groups to formulate equity plan recommendations may limit our ability to obtain approval to adopt new equity plans in the future. If we are limited in our ability to grant equity compensation awards, we would need to 21 Table of Contents explore offering other compelling alternatives to supplement our compensation, including long‑term cash compensation plans or significantly increased short‑term cash compensation, in order to continue to attract and retain key management personnel. If we used these alternatives to long‑term equity awards, our compensation costs could increase and our financial performance could be adversely affected. If we are unable to offer key management personnel long‑term incentive compensation, including stock options, restricted stock or restricted stock units, as part of their total compensation package, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining such personnel, which would adversely affect our operations and financial performance. We may be adversely affected by the lack of soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by our Bank cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to our Bank. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We could experience a loss due to competition with other financial institutions. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, both within and beyond our principal markets, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and internet banks within the various markets in which we operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative and regulatory changes and continued consolidation. In addition, as customer preferences and expectations continue to evolve, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Banks, securities firms, and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting), and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: · the ability to develop, maintain, and build upon long‑term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards, and safe, sound assets; · the ability to expand our market position; · the scope, relevance, and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; · the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors; · customer satisfaction with our level of service; and · industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Failure to keep pace with technological change could adversely affect our business. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology‑driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology‑driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risk. From time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business and/or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business and/or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions through alternative methods that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts, mutual funds or general‑purpose reloadable prepaid cards. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost of deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to clients, we may assume that a customer’s audited financial statements conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. Our earnings are significantly affected by our ability to properly originate, underwrite and service loans. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we incorrectly assess the creditworthiness of our borrowers, fail to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner, or rely on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or are materially misleading. The accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures could be affected because we are exposed to conditions or assumptions different from the judgments, assumptions or estimates used in our critical accounting policies. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosure in conformity with GAAP requires us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and 23 Table of Contents accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies, included in this document, describe those significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that are considered “critical” by us because they require judgments, assumptions and estimates that materially impact our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. As a result, if future events differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions and estimates in our critical accounting policies, such events or assumptions could have a material impact on our audited consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Any requested or required changes in how we determine the impact of loss share accounting on our financial information could have a material adverse effect on our reported results. Our financial results are significantly affected by loss share accounting, which is driven by accounting rule interpretations, assumptions and judgments made by us, and subject to ongoing review by our accountants and the regulatory agencies to whom we report such information. Loss share accounting is a complex accounting methodology. Many of the decisions management makes regarding the application of this accounting methodology are subject to question or revision by our accountants and the various regulatory agencies to whom we report. As such, any financial information generated through the use of loss share accounting is subject to modification or change. Any significant modification or change in such information could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our previously reported results. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. We are exposed to the possibility of technology failure and a disruption in our operations may adversely affect our business. We rely on our computer systems and the technology of outside service providers. Our daily operations depend on the operational effectiveness of their technology. We rely on our systems to accurately track and record our assets and liabilities. If our computer systems or outside technology sources become unreliable, fail, or experience a breach of security, our ability to maintain accurate financial records may be impaired, which could materially affect our business operations and financial condition. In addition, a disruption in our operations resulting from failure of transportation and telecommunication systems, loss of power, interruption of other utilities, natural disaster, fire, global climate changes, computer hacking or viruses, failure of technology, terrorist activity or the domestic and foreign response to such activity or other events outside of our control could have an adverse impact on the financial services industry as a whole and/or on our business. Our business recovery plan may not be adequate and may not prevent significant interruptions of our operations or substantial losses. The increased number of cyber attacks during the past few years has further heightened our attention to this risk. As such, we are in the process of implementing additional security software and hiring additional persons to monitor and assist with the mitigation of this ever increasing risk. A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers or other third parties, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Information security risks for financial institutions such as ours have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties. As client, public, and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions, and breakdowns. Our business, financial, accounting and data processing systems, or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. For example, there could be electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber-attacks. As noted above, our business relies on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct its operations. Although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems, networks, and our clients’ devices may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our 24 Table of Contents clients’ confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our clients’ or other third parties’ business operations. Third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including financial intermediaries, or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, and other third parties, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. While we have disaster recovery and other policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of the evolving nature of these threats. As a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a focus for us. As threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and clients, or cyber-attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our clients use to access our products and services could result in client attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, result of operations and financial condition. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our deposit insurance premiums could be substantially higher in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our future earnings. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC‑insured depository institutions, such as the Bank, up to $250,000 per account. The amount of a particular institution’s deposit insurance assessment is based on that institution’s risk classification under an FDIC risk‑based assessment system. An institution’s risk classification is assigned based on its capital levels and the level of supervisory concern the institution poses to its regulators. Recent market developments and bank failures significantly depleted the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund, and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. As a result of recent economic conditions and the enactment of the Dodd‑Frank Act, banks are now assessed deposit insurance premiums based on the bank’s average consolidated total assets, and the FDIC has modified certain risk‑ based adjustments which increase or decrease a bank’s overall assessment rate. This has resulted in increases to the deposit insurance assessment rates and thus raised deposit premiums for many insured depository institutions. If these increases are insufficient for the Deposit Insurance Fund to meet its funding requirements, further special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums may be required. Banks with assets of $10 billion or more are subject to a deposit assessment based on a “scorecard” system that combines regulatory ratings and certain forward‑looking financial measures intended to assess the risk an institution poses to the deposit insurance fund. If our total assets increase to $10 billion or more for at least four consecutive quarters, then the Bank’s deposit insurance assessment would be based on this scorecard system, which will result in an increase in the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. If our financial condition deteriorates or if the bank regulators otherwise have supervisory concerns about us, then our assessments could rise. Any future additional assessments, increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums could reduce our profitability, may limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, or otherwise negatively impact our operations. 25 Table of Contents Negative public opinion surrounding our company and the financial institutions industry generally could damage our reputation and adversely impact our earnings. Reputation risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative public opinion surrounding our company and the financial institutions industry generally, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and cybersecurity incidents, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract clients and employees and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Although we take steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with our clients and communities, this risk will always be present given the nature of our business. Legal and Regulatory Risks We are subject to extensive regulation that could restrict our activities, have an adverse impact on our operations, and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various regulatory agencies. The Company is subject to Federal Reserve Board regulation, and our Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by our primary federal regulator, the FDIC, and by the SCBFI. Also, as a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (the “FHLB”), the Bank must comply with applicable regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Board and the FHLB. Our Bank’s activities are also regulated under consumer protection laws applicable to our lending, deposit, and other activities. A sufficient claim against us under these laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Regulation by these agencies is intended primarily for the protection of our depositors and the deposit insurance fund and not for the benefit of our shareholders. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes. The Dodd-Frank Act and other changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies or supervisory guidance, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, policies or supervisory guidance, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including, among other things, subjecting us to increased capital, liquidity and risk management requirements, creating additional costs, limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of non‑banks to offer competing financial services and products. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could also result in heightened regulatory scrutiny and in sanctions by regulatory agencies (such as a memorandum of understanding, a written supervisory agreement or a cease and desist order), civil money penalties and/or reputation damage. Any of these consequences could restrict our ability to expand our business or could require us to raise additional capital or sell assets on terms that are not advantageous to us or our shareholders and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, such violations may occur despite our best efforts. If our total consolidated assets increase to $10 billion or more, we will be subject to additional regulations and oversight that are not currently applicable to us and that would impact our earnings. As of December 31, 2105, the Company had total assets of approximately $8.6 billion. If our total consolidated assets increase to $10 billion or more, we will become subject to additional regulations and oversight that could affect our revenues and expenses. Such regulations and oversight include the following. The CFPB has broad rulemaking, supervisory, and enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services, including deposit products, residential mortgages, home‑equity loans and credit cards. The CFPB has examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to banks with over $10 billion in assets. Banks with $10 billion or less in assets are examined for compliance with the consumer laws and regulations by their primary federal banking agency. If the Bank were to become subject to CFPB examination, receiving adverse examination findings from the CFPB, among other things, could negatively impact our operations, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, banking organizations with more than $10 billion in assets must conduct annual stress tests using various scenarios established by federal regulators. Such stress tests are designed to determine whether a banking 26 Table of Contents organization’s capital planning, assessment of capital adequacy and risk management practices adequately protect the banking organization in the event of certain economic downturn scenarios. A banking organization that is required to perform stress tests must establish adequate internal controls, documentation, policies and procedures to ensure that the annual stress test adequately meets these objectives. Banking organizations that are required to perform stress rest must report the results of their annual stress to their federal regulator and must consider the results of their stress test as part of their capital planning and risk management practices. Furthermore, banks with assets in excess of $10 billion are subject to deposit insurance premium assessments based on a new scorecard issued by the FDIC. This scorecard considers, among other things, the bank’s CAMELS rating and results of asset‑related stress testing and funding‑related stress, among other things. Depending on the results of a bank’s performance under that scorecard, the total base assessment rate for the bank’s deposit insurance premiums will increase. Banks with over $10 billion in total assets also cease to be exempt from the requirements of the Federal Reserve’s rules on interchange transaction fees for debit cards, which limit subject banks to receiving only a “reasonable” interchange transaction fee for any debit card transactions processed using debit cards issued by the bank to its customers. The Federal Reserve has determined that it is unreasonable for a bank with more than $10 billion in total assets to receive more than $0.21 plus 5 basis points of the transaction plus a $0.01 fraud adjustment for an interchange transaction fee for debit card transactions. If our total consolidated assets were to increase to $10 billion or more, then we may expend additional resources necessary to comply with the additional applicable regulatory requirements. Increased deposit insurance assessments could result in increased expense related to our use of deposits as a funding source. Likewise, a reduction in the amount of interchange fees we receive for electronic debit interchange will reduce our revenues. Finally, a failure to meet prudential standards and stress testing requirements could, among other things, limit our ability to engage in expansionary activities or make dividend payments to our shareholders. We are exposed to declines in the value of qualified pension plan assets or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding, which could require us to provide significant amounts of funding for our qualified pension plan. As a matter of course, we anticipate that we will make cash contributions to our qualified defined benefit pension plan in the near and long term. A significant decline in the value of qualified pension plan assets in the future or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding could materially change the timing and amount of required pension funding. As a result, we may be required to fund our qualified defined benefit pension plan with a greater amount of cash from operations, perhaps by an additional material amount. New capital rules that were recently issued generally require insured depository institutions and their holding companies to hold more capital. The impact of the new rules on our financial condition and operations is uncertain but could be materially adverse. In July 2013, the federal bank regulatory agencies issued a final rule that will revise their risk‑based capital requirements and the method for calculating risk‑weighted assets to make them consistent with agreements that were reached by Basel III and certain provisions of the Dodd‑Frank Act. This rule substantially amended the regulatory risk‑based capital rules applicable to us. The requirements in the rule began to phase in on January 1, 2015 for the Company and the Bank. The requirements in the rule will be fully phased in by January 1, 2019. The final rule includes certain new and higher risk-based capital and leverage requirements than those previously in place. Specifically, the following minimum capital requirements apply to us at December 31, 2015: · a new common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5% (fully phased-in requirement of 7%); · a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% (increased from the former 4% requirement; fully phased-in requirement of 8.5%); · a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from the former requirement; fully phased-in requirement of 10%); and · a leverage ratio of 4% (also unchanged from the former requirement). 27 Table of Contents Under the rule, Tier 1 capital is redefined to include two components: Common Equity Tier 1 capital and additional Tier 1 capital. The new and highest form of capital, Common Equity Tier 1 capital, consists solely of common stock (plus related surplus), retained earnings, accumulated other comprehensive income, and limited amounts of minority interests that are in the form of common stock. Additional Tier 1 capital includes other perpetual instruments historically included in Tier 1 capital, such as noncumulative perpetual preferred stock. Tier 2 capital generally consists of instruments that previously qualified as Tier 2 capital plus instruments that the rule has disqualified from Tier 1 capital treatment. Cumulative perpetual preferred stock, formerly includable in Tier 1 capital, is now included only in Tier 2 capital; except that the rule permits bank holding companies with less than $15 billion in total consolidated assets to continue to include trust preferred securities and cumulative perpetual preferred stock issued before May 19, 2010 in Tier 1 Capital (but not in Common Equity Tier 1 capital), subject to certain restrictions. Accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) is presumptively included in Common Equity Tier 1 capital and often would operate to reduce this category of capital. The rule provided a one-time opportunity at the end of the first quarter of 2015 for covered banking organizations to opt out of much of this treatment of AOCI. We made this opt-out election and, as a result, will retain the pre-existing treatment for AOCI. In addition, in order to avoid restrictions on capital distributions or discretionary bonus payments to executives, a covered banking organization must maintain a “capital conservation buffer” on top of its minimum risk-based capital requirements. This buffer must consist solely of Tier 1 Common Equity, but the buffer applies to all three measurements (Common Equity Tier 1, Tier 1 capital and total capital). The capital conservation buffer will be phased in incrementally over time, becoming fully effective on January 1, 2019, and will consist of an additional amount of common equity equal to 2.5% of risk-weighted assets. As of January 1, 2016, we are required to hold a capital conservation buffer of 0.625%, increasing by that amount each successive year until 2019. In general, the rules have had the effect of increasing capital requirements by increasing the risk weights on certain assets, including high volatility commercial real estate, certain loans past due 90 days or more or in nonaccrual status, mortgage servicing rights not includable in Common Equity Tier 1 capital, equity exposures, and claims on securities firms, that are used in the denominator of the three risk-based capital ratios. In addition, in the current economic and regulatory environment, bank regulators may impose capital requirements that are more stringent than those required by applicable existing regulations. The application of more stringent capital requirements for us could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk‑based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital or additional capital conservation buffers, could result in management modifying our business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying dividends or buying back our shares. The federal banking agencies have adopted liquidity standards that, while not directly applicable to us, could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business lines by forcing us to seek new sources of liquidity for them, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. As part of the Basel III capital process, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision issued a new liquidity standard, a liquidity coverage ratio, which requires a banking organization to hold sufficient “high quality liquid assets” to meet liquidity needs for a 30 calendar day liquidity stress scenario, as well as a net stable funding ratio, which imposes a similar requirement over a one-year period. During 2014 the U.S. banking regulators approved a final rule with respect to a liquidity coverage ratio for systemically important banks. Although the liquidity coverage ratio rule does not apply directly to us, the substance of the rule may inform the regulators’ assessment of our liquidity. We could be required to reduce our holdings of illiquid assets and adversely affect our results and financial condition. The U.S. regulators have not yet proposed a net stable funding ratio requirement. We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti‑money laundering statutes and regulations. The federal Bank Secrecy Act, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (which we refer to as the “Patriot Act”) and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain effective anti‑money laundering programs and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, established by the U.S. Treasury Department to administer the Bank Secrecy Act, is authorized to 28 Table of Contents impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and Internal Revenue Service. There is also increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the OFAC. Federal and state bank regulators also have begun to focus on compliance with Bank Secrecy Act and anti‑money laundering regulations. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient or the policies, procedures and systems of the financial institutions that we have already acquired or may acquire in the future are deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions such as restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including our acquisition plans, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. Federal, state and local consumer lending laws restrict our ability to originate certain mortgage loans and increase our risk of liability with respect to such loans and increase our cost of doing business. Federal, state and local laws have been adopted that are intended to eliminate certain lending practices considered “predatory.” These laws prohibit practices such as steering borrowers away from more affordable products, selling unnecessary insurance to borrowers, repeatedly refinancing loans and making loans without a reasonable expectation that the borrowers will be able to repay the loans irrespective of the value of the underlying property. Over the course of 2013, the CFPB issued several rules on mortgage lending, notably a rule requiring all home mortgage lenders to determine a borrower’s ability to repay the loan. Loans with certain terms and conditions and that otherwise meet the definition of a “qualified mortgage” may be protected from liability to a borrower for failing to make the necessary determinations. In response to these laws and related CFPB rules, we have tightened and in the future may further tighten our mortgage loan underwriting standards to determine borrowers’ ability to repay. Although it is our policy not to make predatory loans and to determine borrowers’ ability to repay, these laws and related rules create the potential for increased liability with respect to our lending and loan investment activities. They increase our cost of doing business and, ultimately, may prevent us from making certain loans and cause us to reduce the average percentage rate or the points and fees on loans that we do make. We are subject to federal and state fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to material penalties. Federal and state fair lending laws and regulations, such as the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act, impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Department of Justice, CFPB and other federal and state agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution’s performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. A successful challenge to our performance under the fair lending laws and regulations could adversely impact our rating under the Community Reinvestment Act and result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on merger and acquisition activity and restrictions on expansion activity, which could negatively impact our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. The Federal Reserve Board may require us to commit capital resources to support the Bank. The Federal Reserve Board requires a bank holding company to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to a subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support such subsidiary bank. Under the “source of strength” doctrine, the Federal Reserve Board may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank. In addition, the Dodd‑Frank Act directs the federal bank regulators to require that all companies that directly or indirectly control an insured depository institution serve as a source of strength for the institution. Under these requirements, in the future, we could be required to provide financial assistance to our Bank if the Bank experiences financial distress. A capital injection may be required at times when we do not have the resources to provide it, and therefore we may be required to borrow the funds. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a 29 Table of Contents priority of payment over the claims of the holding company’s general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by the holding company in order to make the required capital injection becomes more difficult and expensive and will adversely impact the holding company’s cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. A downgrade of the U.S. credit rating could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. In August 2011, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. from "AAA" to "AA+". If U.S. debt ceiling, budget deficit or debt concerns, domestic or international economic or political concerns, or other factors were to result in further downgrades to the U.S. government's sovereign credit rating or its perceived creditworthiness, it could adversely affect the U.S. and global financial markets and economic conditions. A downgrade of the U.S. government's credit rating or any failure by the U.S. government to satisfy its debt obligations could create financial turmoil and uncertainty, which could weigh heavily on the global banking system. It is possible that any such impact could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are party to various lawsuits incidental to our business. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties such that the expenses and ultimate exposure with respect to many of these matters cannot be ascertained. From time to time, customers and others make claims and take legal action pertaining to our performance of fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal actions are legitimate or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock Our ability to pay cash dividends is limited, and we may be unable to pay future dividends even if we desire to do so. Our ability to pay cash dividends may be limited by regulatory restrictions, by our Bank’s ability to pay cash dividends to our holding company and by our need to maintain sufficient capital to support our operations. The Federal Reserve Board has issued a policy statement regarding the payment of dividends by bank holding companies. In general, the Federal Reserve Board’s policies provide that dividends should be paid only out of current earnings and only if the prospective rate of earnings retention by the bank holding company appears consistent with the organization’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. The Federal Reserve’s policies also require that a bank holding company serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary banks by standing ready to use available resources to provide adequate capital funds to those banks during periods of financial stress or adversity and by maintaining the financial flexibility and capital‑raising capacity to obtain additional resources for assisting its subsidiary banks where necessary. Under the prompt corrective action regulations, the ability of a bank holding company to pay dividends may be restricted if a subsidiary bank becomes undercapitalized. These regulatory policies could affect the ability of the Company to pay dividends or otherwise engage in capital distributions. Since the Company is legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank and does not conduct stand‑alone operations, its ability to pay dividends depends on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to it. As a South Carolina chartered bank, the Bank is subject to limitations on the amount of dividends that it is permitted to pay. Unless otherwise instructed by the SCBFI or the Commissioner of Banking, the Bank is generally permitted under South Carolina state banking regulations to pay cash dividends of up to 100% of net income in any calendar year without obtaining the prior approval of the SCBFI. The Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, and the OCC have issued policy statements which provide that bank holding companies and insured banks should generally only pay dividends out of current operating earnings. In addition, under Federal Reserve Board regulations, a dividend cannot be paid by the Bank if it would be less than well‑capitalized after the dividend. The Federal Reserve Board may also prevent the payment of a dividend by the Bank if it determines that the payment would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. If our Bank is not permitted to pay cash dividends to our holding company, it is unlikely that we would be able to pay cash dividends on our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends 30 Table of Contents only when, and if declared by our board of directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our board of directors could reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. We may issue additional shares of stock or equity derivative securities that will dilute the percentage ownership interest of existing shareholders and may dilute the book value per share of our common stock and adversely affect the terms on which we may obtain additional capital. Our authorized capital includes 40,000,000 shares of common stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of December 31, 2015, we had 24,162,657 shares of common stock outstanding and had reserved for issuance 285,405 shares underlying options that are or may become exercisable at an average price of $38.85 per share. In addition, as of December 31, 2015, we had the ability to issue 1,309,833 shares of common stock pursuant to options and restricted stock that may be granted in the future under our existing equity compensation plans. Subject to applicable NASDAQ rules, our board generally has the authority, without action by or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of any authorized but unissued shares of stock for any corporate purpose. Such corporate purposes could include, among other things, issuances of equity‑based incentives under or outside of our equity compensation plans, issuances of equity in business combination transactions, and issuances of equity to raise additional capital to support growth or to otherwise strengthen our balance sheet. Any issuance of additional shares of stock or equity derivative securities will dilute the percentage ownership interest of our shareholders and may dilute the book value per share of our common stock. Shares we issue in connection with any such offering will increase the total number of outstanding shares and may dilute the economic and voting ownership interest of our existing shareholders. Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in losses to our investors and litigation against us. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include but are not limited to: actual or anticipated variations in earnings, changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections, our announcement of developments related to our businesses, operations and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers, new technology used or services offered by traditional and non‑traditional competitors, news reports of trends, concerns, irrational exuberance on the part of investors, and other issues related to the financial services industry. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market declines or market volatility in the future, especially in the financial institutions sector, could adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for our investors to resell their common stock when they desire and at prices they find attractive. Moreover, in the past, securities class action lawsuits have been instituted against some companies following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We could in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our normal business. Future sales of our stock by our shareholders or the perception that those sales could occur may cause our stock price to decline. Although our common stock is listed for trading in The NASDAQ Global Select MarketSM, the trading volume in our common stock is lower than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the relatively low trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline or to be lower than it otherwise might be in the absence of those sales or perceptions. 31 Table of Contents State law and provisions in our articles of incorporation or bylaws could make it more difficult for another company to purchase us, even though such a purchase may increase shareholder value. In many cases, shareholders may receive a premium for their shares if we were purchased by another company. State law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult for anyone to purchase us without the approval of our board of directors. For example, our articles of incorporation divide the board of directors into three classes of directors serving staggered three‑ year terms with approximately one‑third of the board of directors elected at each annual meeting of shareholders. This classification of directors makes it more difficult for shareholders to change the composition of the board of directors. As a result, at least two annual meetings of shareholders would be required for the shareholders to change a majority of the directors, whether or not a change in the board of directors would be beneficial and whether or not a majority of shareholders believe that such a change would be desirable. Our articles of incorporation provide that a merger, exchange or consolidation of the Company with, or the sale, exchange or lease of all or substantially all of our assets to, any person or entity (referred to herein as a “Fundamental Change”), must be approved by the holders of at least 80% of our outstanding voting stock if the board of directors does not recommend a vote in favor of the Fundamental Change. The articles of incorporation further provide that a Fundamental Change involving a shareholder that owns or controls 20% or more of our voting stock at the time of the proposed transaction (a “Controlling Party”) must be approved by the holders of at least (i) 80% of our outstanding voting stock, and (ii) 67% of our outstanding voting stock held by shareholders other than the Controlling Party, unless (x) the transaction has been recommended to the shareholders by a majority of the entire board of directors or (y) the consideration per share to be received by our shareholders generally is not less than the highest price per share paid by the Controlling Party in the acquisition of its holdings of our common stock during the preceding three years. The approval by the holders of at least 80% of our outstanding voting stock is required to amend or repeal these provisions contained in our articles of incorporation. Finally, in the event that any such Fundamental Change is not recommended by the board of directors, the holders of at least 80% of our outstanding voting stock must attend a meeting called to address such transaction, in person or by proxy, in order for a quorum for the conduct of business to exist. If the 80% and 67% vote requirements described above do not apply because the board of directors recommends the transaction or the consideration is deemed fair, as applicable, then pursuant to the provisions of the South Carolina Business Corporation Act, the Fundamental Change generally must be approved by two‑thirds of the votes entitled to be cast with respect thereto. Consequently, a takeover attempt may prove difficult, and shareholders may not realize the highest possible price for their securities. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund, or by any other public or private entity. An investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 