Item 1A. Risk Factors. The current global economic crisis has created uncertainty and could adversely affect our business. The current global economic crisis has adversely affected our business and could impact our financial results. All of our customers have announced curtailments of production, which has adversely affected the demand for our iron ore and coal products. Continuation or worsening of the current economic conditions, a prolonged global, national or regional economic recession or other events that could produce major changes in demand patterns, could have a material adverse effect on our sales, margins and profitability. We are not able to predict the impact the current global economic crisis will have on our operations and the industry in general going forward. Steel consumption has slowed globally, leading to excess global capacity, which could result in increasing competition within the steel industry and increased imports into the United States, our largest market, potentially lowering the demand for iron ore and coal. The world price of iron ore and coal are strongly influenced by international demand. Production at Portman, which comprises our Asia Pacific Iron Ore segment, is fully committed to steel companies in China and Japan. In addition, approximately 80 percent of 2009 production at Sonoma is committed under supply agreements with customers in Asia, including China. If the economic growth rate in China slows for an extended period of time, which may be difficult to forecast, less steel would be used in construction and manufacturing, which would decrease demand for iron ore and coal. This could adversely impact the world iron ore and coal markets and our operations, specifically, at Portman and Sonoma. A slowing of the economic growth rate globally leading to overcapacity in the steelmaking industry could also result in greater exports of steel out of Eastern Europe, Asia and Latin America, which, if imported into North America, could decrease demand for domestically produced steel, thereby decreasing the demand for iron ore and coal supplied in North America. China’s domestic crude steel production climbed approximately two percent in 2008 as compared to 2007. Based on the American Iron and Steel Institute’s Apparent Steel Supply (excluding semi-finished steel products), imports of steel into the United States constituted approximately 24 percent, 23 percent and 27 percent of the domestic steel market supply for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Further, production of steel by North American integrated steel manufacturers may also be replaced, to some extent, by production of substitute materials by other manufacturers. In the case of some product applications, North American steel manufacturers compete with manufacturers of other materials, including plastic, aluminum, graphite composites, ceramics, glass, wood and concrete. Most of our term supply agreements for the sale of iron ore products are requirements-based or provide for flexibility of volume above a minimum level. Reduced demand for and consumption of iron ore products by integrated steel producers have had and may continue to have a significant negative impact on our sales, margins and profitability. Capacity expansions within the industry could lead to lower global iron ore and coal prices or impact our production. The increased demand for iron ore and coal, particularly from China, has resulted in the major iron ore and metallurgical coal suppliers increasing their capacity. In the current economic environment, any increase in our competitors’ capacity could result in excess supply of iron ore and coal, resulting in increased downward pressure on prices. A decrease in pricing would adversely impact our sales, margins and profitability. 24 Table of Contents The current global economic crisis has resulted in increasing downward pressure on prices for iron ore and metallurgical coal. The current global economic crisis has resulted in a great deal of pressure from customers, particularly in China, for a roll back of the 2008 price increases for seaborne iron ore and metallurgical coal. The 2008 record price increase was driven by high demand for iron ore and coking coal, historically high levels of global steel production, and combined with production and logistics constraints for both iron ore and coking coal, resulted in tight supply conditions. With the current global economic crisis, none of these conditions exist in early 2009; and the market now is characterized by a collapse in steel demand and limited global demand for iron ore and coking coal. Reduced demand for iron ore and coking coal will likely result in decreased demand for the Company’s products and decreasing prices, resulting in lower revenue levels in 2009, and decreasing margins as a result of decreased production, adversely affecting our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. If steelmakers use methods other than blast furnace production to produce steel, or if their blast furnaces shut down or otherwise reduce production, the demand for our iron ore and coal products may decrease. Demand for our iron ore and coal products is determined by the operating rates for the blast furnaces of steel companies. However, not all finished steel is produced by blast furnaces; finished steel also may be produced by other methods that do not require iron ore products. For example, steel “mini-mills,” which are steel recyclers, generally produce steel primarily by using scrap steel and other iron products, not iron ore pellets, in their electric furnaces. Production of steel by steel mini-mills was approximately 60 percent of North American total finished steel production in 2008. North American steel producers also can produce steel using imported iron ore or semi-finished steel products, which eliminates the need for domestic iron ore. Environmental restrictions on the use of blast furnaces also may reduce our customers’ use of their blast furnaces. Maintenance of blast furnaces can require substantial capital expenditures. Our customers may choose not to maintain their blast furnaces, and some of our customers may not have the resources necessary to adequately maintain their blast furnaces. If our customers use methods to produce steel that do not use iron ore and coal products, demand for our iron ore and coal products will decrease, which could adversely affect our sales, margins and profitability. A substantial majority of our sales are made under term supply agreements, which are important to the stability and profitability of our operations. In 2008, virtually all of our North American Iron Ore sales volume, the majority of our North American Coal sales, and virtually all of our Asia Pacific Iron Ore sales were sold under term supply agreements. For North American Coal, these agreements typically cover a twelve-month period and are typically renewed each year. The Asia Pacific Iron Ore contracts expire in 2012. Our North American Iron Ore contracts have an average remaining duration of six years. We cannot be certain that we will be able to renew or replace existing term supply agreements at the same volume levels, prices or with similar profit margins when they expire. A loss of sales to our existing customers could have a substantial negative impact on our sales, margins and profitability. Our North American Iron Ore term supply agreements contain a number of price adjustment provisions, or price escalators, including adjustments based on general industrial inflation rates, the price of steel and the international price of iron ore pellets, among other factors, that allow us to adjust the prices under those agreements generally on an annual basis. Our price adjustment provisions are weighted and some are subject to annual collars, which limit our ability to raise prices to match international levels and fully capitalize on strong demand for iron ore. Most of our North American Iron Ore term supply agreements do not otherwise allow us to increase our prices and to directly pass through higher production costs to our customers. An inability to increase prices or pass along increased costs could adversely affect our margins and profitability. In North America, we depend on a limited number of customers. Five customers together accounted for more than 80 percent of our North American Iron Ore sales revenues (representing more than 50 percent of our overall revenues) measured as a percent of product revenue for each of the past three years. If one or more of these customers were to significantly reduce their purchases of products from us, or if we were unable to sell products to them on terms as favorable to us as the terms under our current 25 Table of Contents term supply agreements, our North American sales, margins and profitability could suffer materially due to the high level of fixed costs and the high costs to idle or close mines. The majority of the iron ore we manage and produce is for our own account, and therefore we rely on sales to our joint venture partners and other third-party customers for most of our revenues. Although we currently have adequate liquidity, if the current global economic crisis extends beyond 2009, we may have difficulty maintaining adequate liquidity. Based on our current borrowing capacity and the actions we have taken in response to the global economic crisis to conserve cash, we have adequate liquidity and expect to fund our business obligations from available cash, current operations and borrowing under our current credit facilities. However, if the current economic crisis deepens into a long term downturn, it is possible that we will face liquidity issues that will negatively impact our cash flow or borrowing capacity. In such circumstances, we may be forced to access higher cost forms of capital. The current global economic crisis may limit available capital. We expect to grow our business and presence as an international mining company by continuing to expand both geographically and through the minerals that we mine and market. To execute on this strategy we will need to have access to the capital markets to finance acquisition and developmental mining properties. In the current global economic crisis access to capital to finance new projects and acquisitions is extremely limited. If we are unable to access the capital markets our ability to execute on our growth strategy will be negatively impacted. Our ability to collect payments from our customers depends on their creditworthiness. Our ability to receive payment for products sold and delivered to our customers depends on the creditworthiness of our customers. With respect to our North American Coal and Asia Pacific Iron Ore business units, payment is typically received as the products are shipped. However, in our North American Iron Ore business unit, generally, we deliver iron ore products to our customers’ facilities in advance of payment for those products. Our rationale for delivering iron ore products to customers in advance of payment for the product is to more closely relate timing of payment to consumption and to reduce our financial risk to customer insolvency, as title and risk of loss with respect to those products does not pass to the customer until payment for the pellets is received. Accordingly, there is typically a period of time in which pellets, for which we have reserved title, are within our customers’ control. Consolidations in some of the industries in which our customers operate have created larger customers, some of which are highly leveraged. These factors have caused some customers to be less profitable and increased our exposure to credit risk. Current credit markets are highly volatile, and some of our customers are highly leveraged. A significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a customer could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer and could limit our ability to collect receivables. Failure to receive payment from our customers for products that we have delivered could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Mine closures entail substantial costs, and if we close one or more of our mines sooner than anticipated, our results of operations and financial condition may be significantly and adversely affected. If we close any of our mines, our revenues would be reduced unless we were able to increase production at our other mines, which may not be possible. The closure of a mining operation involves significant fixed closure costs, including accelerated employment legacy costs, severance-related obligations, reclamation and other environmental costs, and the costs of terminating long-term obligations, including energy contracts and equipment leases. We base our assumptions regarding the life of our mines on detailed studies we perform from time to time, but those studies and assumptions are subject to uncertainties and estimates that may not be accurate. We recognize the costs of reclaiming open pits and shafts, stockpiles, tailings ponds, roads and other mining support areas based on the estimated mining life of our property. If we were to significantly reduce the estimated life of any of our mines, the mine-closure costs would be applied to a shorter period of production, which would increase production costs per ton produced and could significantly and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents A North American mine permanent closure could significantly increase and accelerate employment legacy costs, including our expense and funding costs for pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. A number of employees would be eligible for immediate retirement under special eligibility rules that apply upon a mine closure. All employees eligible for immediate retirement under the pension plans at the time of the permanent mine closure also would be eligible for postretirement health and life insurance benefits, thereby accelerating our obligation to provide these benefits. Certain mine closures would precipitate a pension closure liability significantly greater than an ongoing operation liability. Finally, a permanent mine closure could trigger severance-related obligations, which can equal up to eight weeks of pay per employee, depending on length of service. No employee entitled to an immediate pension upon closure of a mine is entitled to severance. As a result, the closure of one or more of our mines could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on estimates of our recoverable reserves, which is complex due to geological characteristics of the properties and the number of assumptions made. We regularly evaluate our North American iron ore and coal reserves based on revenues and costs and update them as required in accordance with SEC Industry Guide 7. Portman and Sonoma have published reserves which follow Joint Ore Reserves Code in Australia, which is similar to United States requirements. Changes to the reserve value to make them comply with SEC requirements have been made. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves of our mines, many of which have been in operation for several decades, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of reserves and future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as production capacity, effects of regulations by governmental agencies, future prices for iron ore and coal, future industry conditions and operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and costs of extraction and reclamation, all of which may in fact vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of mineralized deposits attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of future net cash flows prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary substantially as the criteria change. Estimated ore and coal reserves could be affected by future industry conditions, geological conditions and ongoing mine planning. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and if such variances are material, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. We rely on our joint venture partners in our mines to meet their payment obligations and are subject to risks involving the acts or omissions of our joint venture partners when we are not the manager of the joint venture. We co-own four of our six North American iron ore mines with various joint venture partners that are integrated steel producers or their subsidiaries, including ArcelorMittal USA, and U.S. Steel Canada Inc. (formerly Stelco Inc.), or U.S. Steel Canada. While we are the manager of each of the mines we co-own, we rely on our joint venture partners to make their required capital contributions and to pay for their share of the iron ore pellets that we produce. Most of our venture partners are also our customers. If one or more of our venture partners fail to perform their obligations, the remaining venturers, including ourselves, may be required to assume additional material obligations, including significant pension and postretirement health and life insurance benefit obligations. The premature closure of a mine due to the failure of a joint venture partner to perform its obligations could result in significant fixed mine-closure costs, including severance, employment legacy costs and other employment costs, reclamation and other environmental costs, and the costs of terminating long-term obligations, including energy contracts and equipment leases. We cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, especially when we have a minority interest in a joint venture and are not designated as the manager of the joint venture. Further, in spite of performing customary due diligence prior to entering into a joint venture, we cannot guaranty full disclosure of prior acts or omissions of the sellers or those with whom we enter into joint ventures. Such risks could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations or financial condition of our joint venture interests. 27 Table of Contents Our expenditures for postretirement benefit and pension obligations could be materially higher than we have predicted if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, if there are mine closures or our joint venture partners fail to perform their obligations that relate to employee pension plans. We provide defined benefit pension plans and OPEB to eligible union and non-union employees, including our share of expense and funding obligations with respect to unconsolidated ventures. Our pension expense and our required contributions to our pension plans are directly affected by the value of plan assets, the projected and actual rate of return on plan assets and the actuarial assumptions we use to measure our defined benefit pension plan obligations, including the rate at which future obligations are discounted. We cannot predict whether changing market or economic conditions such as the current economic crisis, regulatory changes or other factors will increase our pension expenses or our funding obligations, diverting funds we would otherwise apply to other uses. We have calculated our unfunded pension and OPEB obligations based on a number of assumptions. If our assumptions do not materialize as expected, cash expenditures and costs that we incur could be materially higher. Moreover, we cannot be certain that regulatory changes will not increase our obligations to provide these or additional benefits. These obligations also may increase substantially in the event of adverse medical cost trends or unexpected rates of early retirement, particularly for bargaining unit retirees for whom there is currently no retiree healthcare cost cap. Early retirement rates likely would increase substantially in the event of a mine closure. Our sales and competitive position depend on the ability to transport our products to our customers at competitive rates and in a timely manner. Disruption of the lake freighter and rail transportation services because of weather-related problems, including ice and winter weather conditions on the Great Lakes, strikes, lock-outs or other events, could impair our ability to supply iron ore pellets to our customers at competitive rates or in a timely manner and, thus, could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Similarly, our coal operations depend on international freighter and rail transportation services, as well as the availability of dock capacity, and any disruptions to such could impair our ability to supply coal to our customers at competitive rates or in a timely manner and, thus, could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Further, reduced levels of government funding may result in a lesser level of dredging, particularly at Great Lakes ports. Less dredging results in lower water levels, which restricts the tonnage freighters can haul over the Great Lakes, resulting in higher freight rates. Our Asia Pacific Iron Ore operations are in direct competition with the major world seaborne exporters of iron ore and our customers face higher transportation costs than most other Australian producers to ship our products to the Asian markets because of the location of our major shipping port on the south coast of Australia. Further, increases in transportation costs, decreased availability of ocean vessels or changes in such costs relative to transportation costs incurred by our competitors, could make our products less competitive, restrict our access to certain markets and have an adverse effect on our sales, margins and profitability. Our operating expenses could increase significantly if the price of electrical power, fuel or other energy sources increases. Operating expenses at all of our mining locations are sensitive to changes in electricity prices and fuel prices, including diesel fuel and natural gas prices. In our North American Iron Ore locations, for example, these items make up approximately 20 percent of our North American Iron Ore operating costs. Prices for electricity, natural gas and fuel oils can fluctuate widely with availability and demand levels from other users. During periods of peak usage, supplies of energy may be curtailed and we may not be able to purchase them at historical rates. While we have some long-term contracts with electrical suppliers, we are exposed to fluctuations in energy costs that can affect our production costs. We enter into forward fixed-price supply contracts for natural gas and diesel fuel for use in our operations. Those contracts are of limited duration and do not cover all of our fuel needs, and price increases in fuel costs could cause our profitability to decrease significantly. 28 Table of Contents Natural disasters, weather conditions, disruption of energy, unanticipated geological conditions, equipment failures, and other unexpected events may lead our customers, our suppliers, or our facilities to curtail production or shut down their operations. Operating levels within the industry are subject to unexpected conditions and events that are beyond the industry’s control. Those events could cause industry members or their suppliers to curtail production or shut down a portion or all of their operations, which could reduce the demand for our iron ore and coal products, and could adversely affect our sales, margins, and profitability. For example, in January of 2008, one of our customers provided us with a force majeure letter due to a fire on the smaller of its two operating furnaces. In February 2007, severe weather conditions caused significant ice buildup in the basin supplying water to the Hibbing facility tailings basin. This caused a production shutdown that lowered first quarter production output. In August 2007 and March 2008, production at Pinnacle slowed as a result of sandstone intrusions encountered within the coal panel being mined at the time, spreading fixed costs over less production than planned. Interruptions in production capabilities will inevitably increase our production costs and reduce our profitability. We do not have meaningful excess capacity for current production needs, and we are not able to quickly increase production at one mine to offset an interruption in production at another mine. A portion of our production costs are fixed regardless of current operating levels. As noted, our operating levels are subject to conditions beyond our control that can delay deliveries or increase the cost of mining at particular mines for varying lengths of time. These conditions include weather conditions (for example, extreme winter weather, floods and availability of process water due to drought) and natural disasters, pit wall failures, unanticipated geological conditions, including variations in the amount of rock and soil overlying the deposits of iron ore and coal, variations in rock and other natural materials and variations in geologic conditions and ore processing changes. The manufacturing processes that take place in our mining operations, as well as in our processing facilities, depend on critical pieces of equipment. This equipment may, on occasion, be out of service because of unanticipated failures. In addition, many of our mines and processing facilities have been in operation for several decades, and the equipment is aged. In the future, we may experience additional material plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production because of equipment failures. Further, remediation of any interruption in production capability may require us to make large capital expenditures that could have a negative effect on our profitability and cash flows. Our business interruption insurance would not cover all of the lost revenues associated with equipment failures. Longer-term business disruptions could result in a loss of customers, which could adversely affect our future sales levels, and therefore our profitability. Regarding the impact of unexpected events happening to our suppliers, many of our mines are dependent on one source for electric power and for natural gas. For example, Minnesota Power, Inc. is the sole supplier of electric power to our Hibbing and United Taconite mines; WEPCO is the sole supplier of electric power to our Tilden and Empire mines; and our Northshore mine is largely dependent on our wholly-owned power facility for its electrical supply. A significant interruption in service from our energy suppliers due to terrorism, weather conditions, natural disasters, or any other cause can result in substantial losses that may not be fully recoverable, either from our business interruption insurance or responsible third parties. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which imposes, and will continue to impose, significant costs and liabilities on us, and future regulation could increase those costs and liabilities or limit our ability to produce iron ore and coal products. We are subject to various federal, provincial, state and local laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in which we have operations on matters such as employee health and safety, air quality, water pollution, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties, the discharge of materials into the environment, and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. Numerous governmental permits and approvals are required for our operations. We cannot be certain that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws, regulations and permits. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. 29 Table of Contents Prior to commencement of mining, we must submit to and obtain approval from the appropriate regulatory authority of plans showing where and how mining and reclamation operations are to occur. These plans must include information such as the location of mining areas, stockpiles, surface waters, haul roads, tailings basins and drainage from mining operations. All requirements imposed by any such authority may be costly and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations. In addition, new legislation and regulations and orders, including proposals related to climate change and protection of the environment, to which we would be subject or that would further regulate and tax our customers, namely the North American integrated steel producer customers, may also require us or our customers to reduce or otherwise change operations significantly or incur additional costs. Such new legislation, regulations or orders (if enacted) could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or profitability. For example, our U.S. operations are subject to MACT emissions standards for particulate matter promulgated by the EPA under the Clean Air Act effective October 31, 2006. The EPA’s decision not to regulate emissions of mercury or asbestos in the MACT Rule is the subject of a court remand, and the outcome cannot be predicted. Further, we are subject to a variety of potential liability exposures arising at certain sites where we do not currently conduct operations. These sites include sites where we formerly conducted iron ore mining or processing or other operations, inactive sites that we currently own, predecessor sites, acquired sites, leased land sites and third-party waste disposal sites. We may be named as a responsible party at other sites in the future and we cannot be certain that the costs associated with these additional sites will not be material. We also could be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances used, released or disposed of by us or other environmental damage, including damage to natural resources. In particular, we and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in various claims relating to the exposure of asbestos and silica to seamen who sailed on the Great Lakes vessels formerly owned and operated by certain of our subsidiaries. The full impact of these claims, as well as whether insurance coverage will be sufficient and whether other defendants named in these claims will be able to fund any costs arising out of these claims, continues to be unknown. Underground mining is subject to increased safety regulation and may require us to incur additional cost. Recent mine disasters have led to the enactment and consideration of significant new federal and state laws and regulations relating to safety in underground coal mines. These laws and regulations include requirements for constructing and maintaining caches for the storage of additional self-contained self rescuers throughout underground mines; installing rescue chambers in underground mines; constant tracking of and communication with personnel in the mines; installing cable lifelines from the mine portal to all sections of the mine to assist in emergency escape; submission and approval of emergency response plans; and new and additional safety training. Additionally, new requirements for the prompt reporting of accidents and increased fines and penalties for violations of these and existing regulations have been implemented. These new laws and regulations may cause us to incur substantial additional costs, which may adversely impact our operating performance. Coal mining is complex due to geological characteristics of the region. The geological characteristics of coal reserves, such as depth of overburden and coal seam thickness, make them complex and costly to mine. As mines become depleted, replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be capable of being mined at costs comparable to those characteristic of the depleting mines. These factors could materially adversely affect the mining operations and cost structures of, and customers’ ability to use coal produced. Our profitability could be negatively affected if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations. The USW represents all hourly employees at our North American Iron Ore locations except for Northshore. The UMWA represents hourly employees at our North American Coal locations. We have entered into an agreement with the USW on a new four-year labor contract to replace the labor agreement that expired on September 1, 2008 and that will cover approximately 2,300 USW-represented workers at our Empire and Tilden mines in Michigan, and our United Taconite and Hibbing mines in Minnesota. A five-year agreement runs until 30 Table of Contents March 1, 2009 with our Canadian work force. The current UMWA agreement runs through 2011 at our coal locations. Hourly employees at the railroads we own that transport products among our facilities are represented by multiple unions with labor agreements that expire at various dates. If the collective bargaining agreements relating to the employees at our mines or railroads are not successfully renegotiated prior to their expiration, we could face work stoppages or labor strikes. We may encounter labor shortages for critical operational positions, which could affect our ability to produce our products. Prior to the current global economic crisis, the global mining industry was facing a critical shortage of essential skilled employees. Competition for the available workers was limiting our ability to attract and retain employees prior to the global economic crisis. Despite the current economic downturn, we are predicting a long term shortage of skilled workers for the mining industry. At many of our mining locations, many of our mining operational employees are approaching retirement age. As these experienced employees retire, we may have difficulty replacing them at competitive wages. As a result, wages are increasing to address the turnover. In addition, when the global economy recovers, we will again be under increasing pressure to retain our existing skilled workers, also resulting in higher wages. Our profitability could be affected by the failure of outside contractors to perform. Portman and Sonoma use contractors to handle many of the operational phases of their mining and processing operations and therefore are subject to the performance of outside companies on key production areas. We may be unable to successfully identify, acquire and integrate strategic acquisition candidates. Our ability to grow successfully through acquisitions depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions and to obtain necessary financing. It is possible that we will be unable to successfully complete potential acquisitions. In addition, the costs of acquiring other businesses could increase if competition for acquisition candidates increases. Additionally, the success of an acquisition is subject to other risks and uncertainties, including our ability to realize operating efficiencies expected from an acquisition, the size or quality of the resource, delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition, difficulties in retaining key employees, customers or suppliers of the acquired businesses, difficulties in maintaining uniform controls, procedures, standards and policies throughout acquired companies, the risks associated with the assumption of contingent or undisclosed liabilities of acquisition targets, the impact of changes to our allocation of purchase price, and the ability to generate future cash flows or the availability of financing. We are subject to risks involving operations in multiple countries. We have a strategy to broaden our scope as a supplier of iron ore and other raw materials to the global integrated steel industry. As we expand beyond our traditional North American base business, we will be subject to additional risks beyond those risks relating to our North American operations, such as currency fluctuations; legal and tax limitations on our ability to repatriate earnings in a tax-efficient manner; potential negative international impacts resulting from U.S. foreign and domestic policies, including government embargoes or foreign trade restrictions; the imposition of duties, tariffs, import and export controls and other trade barriers impacting the seaborne iron ore and coal markets; difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations; and uncertainties in the enforcement of legal rights and remedies in multiple jurisdictions. If we are unable to manage successfully the risks associated with expanding our global business, these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are subject to a variety of market risks. Market risks include those caused by changes in the value of equity investments, changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We have established policies and procedures to manage such risks, however certain risks are beyond our control. 31 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved comments from the SEC. 