Risk Factors This Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ significantly from the prospects discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those listed below. The loss of a major customer would adversely affect us A substantial percentage, approximately 45% of our sales for the year ended December 31, 2007, has been to three customers, the loss of any of which would adversely affect us. A substantial portion of our sales (21%) is with one major customer. There are no long-term contracts with any customer. Substantially all of our sales and reorders are subject to competitive bids. Sales are dependent on the success of our customers, some of which operate in businesses associated with rapid technological change, vigorous competition, short product life cycles, and pricing and margin pressures. Additionally, certain of the industries served by us are subject to economic cycles and have in the past experienced, and are likely in the future to experience, recessionary periods. Developments adverse to our major customers or their products could have an adverse effect on us. A variety of conditions, both specific to each individual customer and generally affecting each customer’s industry, may cause customers to cancel, reduce or delay purchase orders and commitments without penalty, except for payment for services rendered, materials purchased and, in certain circumstances, charges associated with such cancellation, reduction or delay. In addition, we generate large accounts receivable in connection with our providing electronic contract manufacturing. If one or more of our customers experiences financial difficulty and is unable to pay for the services provided by us, our operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. We expect to continue to depend on sales to a limited number of major customers. Secured loans - existence of liens on certain assets All of our assets have been pledged as collateral for three bank loans. We have entered into two amended credit facilities and one new credit facility with Bank of Scotland in Edinburgh, Scotland (“BoS”). These facilities were amended and increased in January 2007. Please refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section under Item 7 for further discussion regarding these credit facilities. Our credit facilities impose operational and financial restrictions on us Our credit facilities with BoS, which include an Amended Term Loan Facility Letter, an Amended Working Capital Facility Letter, a Working Capital Facility Letter, and related security agreements, guaranties and mortgage, In addition to subjecting all our assets as security for the bank financing these debt agreements, they also include substantial covenants that impose significant restrictions. Please refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section under Item 7 for further discussion regarding these restrictions. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by changes in our financial condition or results of our operations, or other events beyond our control. The breach of any of the covenants would result in a default under our debt facilities. A default in the covenants would permit BoS to accelerate the maturity of our credit facilities and to sell the assets securing them, which could cause us to cease operations or seek bankruptcy protection. Our indebtedness requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which could reduce amounts available for working capital and other general corporate purposes. The restrictions in our credit facility could also limit our flexibility in reacting to changes in our business and increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. 12 We operate in a highly competitive industry and our business may be harmed by competitive pressures Manufacturing and assembly of electro-mechanical and electronic components is a highly competitive industry characterized by a diversity and sophistication of products and components. We compete with major electronics firms that have substantially greater financial and technical resources and personnel than we do. We also face competition from many smaller, more specialized companies. We believe the primary competitive factors are pricing, quality of production, prompt customer service, timely delivery, engineering expertise, and technical assistance to customers. Among this mix of competitive standards, we believe we are competitive with respect to delivery time, quality, price and customer service. Price sensitivity becomes a paramount competitive issue in recessionary periods, and we may be at a competitive disadvantage with manufacturers with a lower cost structure, particularly off-shore manufacturers with lower labor and related production costs. To compete effectively, we must also provide technologically advanced manufacturing services, and respond flexibly and rapidly to customers’ design and schedule changes. Our inability to do so could have adverse effects on us. Customers in our industry are price-sensitive and, particularly in the recent economic downturn, there is substantial pressure from customers to reduce our prices. Our ability to remain competitive depends on our ability to meet these customer and competitive price pressures while protecting our profit margins. We have been engaged in and will have to continue cost reductions in overhead, manufacturing processes, and equipment retooling, while maintaining product flow, inventory control, and just-in-time shipping to our customers. If we are unable to accomplish these factors, we will not be competitive, and our business and operating results will be adversely impacted. Our revenues are contingent on the health of the industries we serve We rely on the continued growth and financial stability of our customers who operate in the following industry segments: · food preparation equipment; · data processing; · telecommunications; · contract manufacturing; · power equipment; · instrumentation; and · military and government. These industry segments, to a varying extent, are subject to dynamic changes in technology, competition, short product life cycles, and economic recessionary periods. When our customers are adversely affected by these factors, we may be similarly affected. Manufacture of electronic and electro-mechanical products, particularly designed for OEMs and manufactured to custom specifications, is cyclical, and demand for our products may decline Our business depends substantially on both the volume of electronic and electro-mechanical production by OEMs in the data processing, telecommunications, instrumentation and food preparation industries, and new specifications and designs for these OEMs. These industries have been cyclical over the years, and have experienced oversupply as well as significantly reduced demand, as we have experienced in recent years. An economic downturn can result in lower capacity utilization of our manufacturing operations and a shift in product mix toward lower margin assemblies. Changes in economic conditions and demand can result in customer rescheduling of orders and shipments, which affect our results of operations. Moreover, our need to invest in engineering, marketing, and customer services and support capabilities will limit our ability to reduce expenses, as we would attempt to do, in response to such downturns. 13 We do not have long-term contracts with customers, and cancellations, reductions or delays in orders affect our profitability We do not typically obtain firm long-term contracts from our customers. Instead, we work closely with our customers to develop forecasts for upcoming orders, which are not binding, in order to properly schedule inventory and manufacturing. Our customers may alter or cancel their orders or demand delays in production for a number of reasons beyond our control, which may include: · market demand for products; · change in inventory control and procedures; · acquisitions of or consolidations among competing customers; · electronic design and technological advancements; and · recessionary economic environment. Any one of these factors may significantly change the total volume of sales and affect our operating results, in times of a recessionary environment and reduced demand for our customers’ products and in turn, our products and services. In addition, since much of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand would adversely affect our gross margins and operating income. Although we are always seeking new business and customers, we cannot be assured that we will be able to replace deferred, reduced or cancelled orders. Shortages of components as well as price fluctuations specified by our customers would delay shipments and adversely affect our profitability Substantially all of our sales are derived from electro-mechanical and subcontract electronic manufacturing in which we purchase components specified by our customers. Industry-wide shortages of electronic components, particularly components for PCB assemblies, have occurred. We have from time to time experienced some supply shortages. Should our industry experience a rapid increase, shortages of components mostly likely will occur, and we may be forced to delay shipments, which could have an adverse effect on our profit margins and customer relations. Because of the continued increase in demand for surface mount components, we anticipate component shortages and longer lead times for certain components to occur from time to time. Also, we typically bear the risk of component price increases that occur, which accordingly could adversely affect our gross profit margins. As price increase pressures continue we are beginning to pass these increases on as competition allows. At times, we are forced to purchase components beyond customer demand on items which are in short supply. To the extent there is less customer demand or cancellations, we could have increased obsolescence. Technological developments, satisfying customer designs and production requirements, quality and process controls are factors impacting our operations Our existing and future operations are and will be influenced by several factors, including technological developments, our ability to efficiently meet the design and production requirements of our customers, our ability to control costs, our ability to evaluate new orders to target satisfactory profit margins, and our capacity to develop and manage the introduction of new products. We also may not be able to adequately identify new product trends or opportunities, or respond effectively to new technological changes. Quality control is also essential to our operations, since customers demand strict compliance with design and product specifications. Any deviation from our quality and process controls would adversely affect our relationship with customers, and ultimately our revenues and profitability. 14 Our operating results are subject to annual and quarterly fluctuation which could negatively impact our stock price There are a number of factors, beyond our control, that may affect our annual and quarterly results. These factors include: · the volume and timing of customer orders; · changes in labor and operating prices; · fluctuations in material cost and availability; · changes in domestic and international economies; · timing of our expenditures in anticipation of future orders; · increase in price competition, and competitive pressures on delivery time and product reliability; · changes in demand for customer products; · the efficiency and effectiveness of our automated manufacturing processes; · market acceptance of new products introduced by our customers; and · uneven seasonal demands by our customers. Any one or combination of these factors can cause an adverse effect on our future annual and quarterly financial results. Fluctuations in our operating results could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Environmental laws may expose us to financial liability and restrictions on operations We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental, waste management, and health and safety concerns, including the handling, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials used in or derived from our manufacturing processes. Proper waste disposal is a major consideration for printed circuit board manufacturers, which is a substantial part of our business, since metals and chemicals are used in our manufacturing process. Environmental controls are also essential in our other areas of electronic assembly. If we fail to comply with such environmental laws and regulations, then we could incur liabilities and fines and our operations could be suspended. This could also trigger indemnification of our lender under our credit facilities, as well as being deemed a default under such credit facilities. See “Our credit facilities impose operational and financial restrictions on us” above. Such laws and regulations could also restrict our ability to modify or expand our facilities, could require us to acquire costly equipment, or could impose other significant capital expenditures. In addition, our operations may give rise to claims of property contamination or human exposure to hazardous chemicals or conditions. Although we have not incurred any environmental problems in our operations, there can be no assurance that violations of environmental laws will not occur in the future due to failure to obtain permits, human error, equipment failure, or other causes. Furthermore, environmental laws may become more stringent and impose greater compliance costs and increase risks and penalties for violations. Simclar Group controls over 73% of our common stock and the affairs of our company Simclar Group owns 73.4% of our outstanding common stock. Our common stock does not provide for cumulative voting, and therefore, the remaining shareholders, other than Simclar Group, will be unable to elect any directors or have any significant impact in controlling the business or affairs of our company. The concentration of ownership with Simclar Group may also have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of our company, and would make transactions relating to our operations more difficult or impossible without the support of Simclar Group. Also, since we are a “controlled company” for purposes of the Nasdaq Stock Market’s corporate governance requirements, we are not required to comply with the provisions requiring that a majority of listed company directors be independent, the compensation of our executives to be determined by independent directors or nominees for election to our board of directors to be selected by independent directors. 15 The price of our shares is volatile The market price of our common stock has substantially fluctuated in the past. The market price of our common stock has been as high as $13.74 in the fourth quarter of 2007 to as low as $0.52 in the fourth quarter of 2002. Our common stock has limited trading volume, and it closed at $4.51 on March 7, 2008. There are a variety of factors which contribute to the volatility of our common stock. These factors include domestic and international economic conditions, stock market volatility, our reported financial results, fluctuations in annual and quarterly operating results, and general conditions in the contract manufacturing and technology sectors. Announcements concerning our company and competitors, our operating results, and any significant amount of shares eligible for future sale may also have an impact on the market price of our common stock. As a result of these factors, the volatility of our common stock prices may continue in the future. We have not declared dividends, and our credit facilities prohibit us from paying dividends without written consent from our lender Under Florida corporate law, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends from legally available funds, when and if declared by our board of directors. We have not paid any cash dividends, and our board of directors does not intend to declare dividends in the foreseeable future. Our future earnings, if any, will be used to finance our capital requirements, repay bank borrowings and fund our operations. Our credit facilities prohibit us from paying any dividends without the written consent of the lender or making any other payments on our capital stock without the written consent of the lender. There can be no assurance that the lender will provide such consent. Possible delisting of our stock Our common stock trades on the Nasdaq Capital Market. There are certain qualitative and quantitative criteria for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market, known as continued listing requirements. Failure to satisfy any one of these continued listing requirements could result in our securities being delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. These criteria include at least two active market makers, maintenance of $2,500,000 of stockholders’ equity (or alternatively, $35,000,000 in market capitalization or $500,000 in net income from operations in the latest fiscal year or 2 of the last 3 fiscal years), a minimum bid price for our common stock of $1.00, and at least 500,000 publicly held shares with a market value of at least $1,000,000, among others. Continued listing also requires compliance with the Nasdaq Stock Market’s corporate governance listing criteria. Usually, if a deficiency occurs for a period of 30 consecutive trading days (10 consecutive trading days for failure to satisfy the minimum market capitalization requirement), the particular company is notified by Nasdaq and has a grace period in which to achieve compliance. If the company is unable to demonstrate compliance after the expiration of any applicable grace period, the security is subject to delisting. The security might be able to trade on the Nasdaq OTC Bulletin Board, a less transparent trading market which may not provide the same visibility for the company or liquidity for its securities, as does the Nasdaq Capital Market. As a consequence, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain prompt quotations as to the price of our securities, and may be exposed to a risk of decline in the market price of our common stock. The Nasdaq Capital Market requires that we maintain a minimum market value of public float of $1,000,000 for continued listing. The publicly trading shares, exclusive of any affiliate ownership, which is the float for our common stock, is approximately 1,658,092 shares, and as the closing price of our shares on March 7, 2008 was $4.51, we currently satisfy that maintenance requirement. Our common stock has limited trading volume. There is the risk of being delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market should our common stock fail to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive days, or we fail to meet other continued listing requirements In 2006, we were notified by Nasdaq of failure to meet its listing requirements due to a delay in filing our quarterly report for the second quarter of 2006, as a result of accounting errors at our Simclar (Mexico), Inc. subsidiary that led to a restatement of our 2005 and first quarter 2006 results. We were able to correct this deficiency before further action to delist our common stock. Continued satisfaction of certain of the Nasdaq Capital Market continued listing requirements is beyond our control. There is no assurance that we will continue to satisfy the continued listing maintenance criteria, which, without a timely cure, could cause our securities to be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. 16 A significant downturn in the general economy could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and earnings. Our business is subject to inflation, rising interest rates, availability of capital markets, consumer spending rates, the effects of governmental plans to manage economic conditions and other national and global economic occurrences beyond our control which could have an adverse affect on our revenue, gross margin and earnings. As suppliers to the OEM market many of our products, and hence our revenue and gross margin, is strongly correlated with general economic conditions and with the level of business activity of our customers. Economic weakness and constrained customer spending has resulted in the past, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings, or growth rates. We also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines reflecting the effects of increased pressure for price concessions as our customers attempt to lower their cost structures and increased material costs as our suppliers attempt to increase their prices. In this environment, we may not be able to reduce our costs sufficiently to maintain our margins. Failure to attract and retain qualified personnel may result in difficulties in managing our business effectively and meeting revenue growth objective. Our ability to profitably manage and grow our business depends upon the contributions and abilities of key executives, operating officers and other personnel. The loss of the services of any of these key employees could have a material impact on the Company's business and results of operations. In addition, continued growth and expansion of the Company's contract manufacturing business in an extremely competitive market will require that it attract, motivate and retain additional skilled and experienced personnel. The inability to satisfy these requirements could have a negative impact on the Company's ability to remain competitive in the future. There are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. Simclar’s management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that any company’s controls, including our own, will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. The design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be evaluated in relation to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in the company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 