Item 1A. Risk Factors If the rate of steel consumption in China slows, the demand for iron ore could decrease. The world price of iron ore is strongly influenced by international demand. The current growing level of international demand for iron ore and steel is largely due to the rapid industrial growth in China. A large quantity of steel is currently being used in China to build roads, bridges, railroads and factories. If the economic growth rate in China slows, which may be difficult to forecast, less steel may be used in construction and manufacturing, which could decrease demand for iron ore. This could adversely impact the world iron ore market, impact the North American and Australian iron ore market, and adversely impact Portman, where approximately 73 percent of our Australian revenues are generated. It could also adversely impact our United Taconite joint venture with Laiwu and our Wabush mine. A slowing of the economic growth rate in China could also result in greater exports of steel out of China, which if imported into North America could decrease demand for domestically produced steel, thereby decreasing the demand for iron ore produced in North America. China became a modest net exporter of steel products in 2005. Excess global capacity and the availability of competitive substitute materials may result in intense competition in the steel industry, which may reduce steel prices and decrease steel production and our customers’ demand for iron ore products. More than 97 percent of our North American revenues are derived from the North American integrated steel industry. From time to time, global overcapacity in steel manufacturing has a negative impact on North American steel sales and reduces the production of steel and consequently the demand for iron ore. China’s domestic crude steel capacity is expected to climb to 360 million tonnes in 2006 from 340 million tonnes in 2005, according to the Chinese Securities Journal. Further, production of steel by North American integrated steel manufacturers may be replaced to a certain extent by production of substitute materials by other manufacturers. In the case of certain product applications, North American steel manufacturers compete with manufacturers of other materials, including plastic, aluminum, graphite composites, ceramics, glass, wood and concrete. Most of our term supply agreements for the sale of iron ore products are requirements-based or provide for flexibility of volume above a minimum level. Reduced demand for and consumption of iron ore products by integrated steel producers have had and may continue to have a significant negative impact on our sales, margins and profitability. Increased imports of steel into the United States could adversely impact North American steel sales, which could adversely affect demand for our products and our sales, margins and profitability. From time to time, global overcapacity in steel manufacturing and a weakening of certain foreign economies, particularly in Eastern Europe, Asia and Latin America, may negatively impact steel prices in those foreign economies and result in increased levels of steel imports from those countries into the United States at depressed prices. Based on the American Iron and Steel Institute’s Apparent Steel Supply (excluding semi-finished steel products), imports of steel into the United States constituted 21.6 percent (estimated), 22.3 percent and 16.5 percent of the domestic steel market supply for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Significant imports of steel into the United States could substantially reduce sales, margins and profitability of North American steel producers, and consequently, reduce demand for iron ore. Decreased North American steel sales could decrease demand for North American iron ore products and have a substantial negative impact on our sales, margins and profitability. The purchase by North American steel producers of semi-finished steel products from foreign suppliers could also decrease demand for our iron ore products. The North American and global steel industries continue to undergo a restructuring process that has resulted in industry consolidation that could result in a reduction of integrated steelmaking capacity over time, and thereby reduce iron ore consumption. The North American steel industry has undergone consolidation, and that consolidation is likely to continue as evidenced by the acquisition of International Steel Group by Mittal Steel USA ISG Inc. (“Mittal 7 Table of Contents Steel USA”). Consolidation is also occurring globally, as evidenced by Mittal Steel’s offer to acquire Arcelor S.A. and Arcelor S.A.’s pending acquisition of Dofasco Inc (“Dofasco”). Consolidation of the North American and global steel industries will result in fewer customers for iron ore. The restructuring process may reduce integrated steelmaking capacity, which would reduce demand for our North American iron ore products and may adversely affect our sales. Further, if the steel producers that have captive iron ore mines obtain a larger share of North American steel production, they may obtain iron ore from their own mines, if they have excess capacity, rather than from us. These factors could adversely affect our sales, margins and profitability. Our sales and earnings are subject to significant fluctuations as a result of the cyclical nature of the North American steel industry. In 2005 and 2004, 21.9 million and 22.2 million tons, respectively, of our iron ore pellet sales were sold to North American steel manufacturers, while only .4 million tons of our pellets were sold outside of North America in each year. The North American steel industry has been highly cyclical in nature, influenced by a combination of factors, including periods of economic growth or recession, strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar, worldwide demand and production capacity, the strength of the U.S. automotive industry, levels of steel imports and applicable tariffs. The demand for steel products is generally affected by macroeconomic fluctuations in North America and the global economies in which steel companies sell their products. For example, future economic downturns, stagnant economies or currency fluctuations in the United States or globally could decrease the demand for steel products or increase the amount of imports of steel or iron ore into the United States. In addition, a disruption or downturn in the oil and gas, gas transmission, construction, commercial equipment, rail transportation, appliance, agricultural, automotive or durable goods industries, all of which are significant markets for steel products and are highly cyclical, could negatively impact sales of steel by North American producers. These trends could decrease the demand for North American iron ore products and significantly adversely affect our sales, margins and profitability. If steelmakers use methods other than blast furnace production to produce steel, or if their blast furnaces shut down or otherwise reduce production, the demand for our iron ore products may decrease, which would adversely affect our sales, margins and profitability. Demand for our iron ore products is determined by the operating rates for the blast furnaces of steel companies. However, not all finished steel is produced by blast furnaces; finished steel also may be produced by other methods that do not require iron ore products. For example, steel “mini-mills,” which are steel recyclers, generally produce steel by using scrap steel, not iron ore pellets, in their electric furnaces. Production of steel by steel “mini-mills” was approximately 55 percent of North American total finished steel production in 2005. Steel producers also can produce steel using imported iron ore or semi-finished steel products, which eliminates the need for domestic iron ore. Environmental restrictions on the use of blast furnaces also may reduce our customers’ use of their blast furnaces. Maintenance of blast furnaces can require substantial capital expenditures. Our customers may choose not to maintain their blast furnaces, and some of our customers may not have the resources necessary to adequately maintain their blast furnaces. If our customers use methods to produce steel that do not use iron ore products, demand for our iron ore products will decrease, which could adversely affect our sales, margins and profitability. Natural disasters, equipment failures and other unexpected events may lead our steel industry customers to curtail production or shut down their operations. Operating levels at our steel industry customers are subject to conditions beyond their control, including raw material shortages, weather conditions, natural disasters, interruptions in electrical power or other energy services, equipment failures, and other unexpected events. Any of those events could also affect other suppliers to the North American steel industry. In either case, those events could cause our steel industry customers to curtail production or shut down a portion or all of their operations, which could reduce their demand for our North American iron ore products. For example, in 2005, Mittal Steel USA permanently shut down its 8 Table of Contents Weirton blast furnaces. Similarly, in September 2005, Steel Dynamics, Inc. suspended orders for some steel products that require the use of hydrogen gas due to the effects of hurricane Katrina on its hydrogen gas supplier. Also, in late 2003, a fire occurred in a mine of a major coal supplier to U.S. Steel, which supplies a majority of the coke, a processed form of coal, used by our steel industry customers to operate their blast furnaces. The fire caused U.S. Steel to curtail its production of coke, and to reduce its coke shipments to at least two of our steel industry customers. As a result, one of our steel industry customers had to curtail its steel production, and its demand for our iron ore products decreased. Decreased demand for our iron ore products could adversely affect our sales, margins and profitability. We operate in a very competitive industry. The iron mining business is highly competitive, with producers in all iron-producing regions. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources than we have and may be better able to withstand changes in conditions within the steel industry than we are. In the future, we may face increasing competition. As a result, we may face pressures on sales prices and volumes of our products from competitors and large customers. Capacity expansions could lead to lower global iron ore prices. The increased demand for iron ore, particularly from China, has resulted in the major iron ore suppliers increasing their capacity. In 2006, CVRD’s board of directors approved a capital expenditure budget of $4.6 billion, the highest in its history, to expand production capacity in iron ore and other materials. BHP announced expansion projects in Western Australia and Brazil to increase iron ore capacity by a combined 28 million tonnes. An increase in our competitor’s capacity could result in excess supply of iron ore, and subsequently downward pressure on iron ore prices. A decrease in pricing would adversely impact our sales, margins and profitability. Our sales and competitive position depend on the ability to transport our products to our customers at competitive rates and in a timely manner. Our competitive position requires the ability to transport iron ore to our markets at competitive rates. Disruption of the lake freighter and rail transportation services because of weather-related problems, including ice and winter weather conditions on the Great Lakes, strikes, lock-outs or other events, could impair our ability to supply iron ore pellets to our customers at competitive rates or in a timely manner and, thus, could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Portman is in direct competition with the major world seaborne exporters of iron ore and its customers face higher transportation costs than most other Australian producers to ship its products to the Asian markets because of the location of its major shipping port on the south coast of Australia. Further, increases in transportation costs, or changes in such costs relative to transportation costs incurred by our competitors, could make our products less competitive, restrict our access to certain markets and have an adverse effect on our sales, margins and profitability. If a substantial portion of our term supply agreements terminate and are not renewed, and we are unable to find alternate buyers willing to purchase our products on terms comparable to those in our existing term supply agreements, our sales, margins and profitability will suffer. A substantial majority of our sales are made under term supply agreements, which are important to the stability and profitability of our operations. In 2005, more than 96 percent of our North American sales volume was sold under term supply agreements. All of Portman’s sales are made under existing contracts that have approximately four years remaining. Portman’s sales pricing is primarily based on the benchmark pricing established for Australian producers. If a substantial portion of our term supply agreements were modified or terminated, we could be materially adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to renew the agreements or find alternate buyers for our iron ore at the same level of profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew or replace existing term supply agreements at the same prices or with similar profit margins when they expire. A loss of sales to our existing customers could have a substantial negative impact on our sales, margins and profitability. 9 Table of Contents We depend on a limited number of customers, and the loss of, or significant reduction in, purchases by our largest customers would adversely affect our sales. Five customers together accounted for a total of 93 percent and 94 percent of our North American sales revenues measured as a percent of “Product sales and services” for the years ended 2005 and 2004, respectively. If one or more of these customers were to significantly reduce their purchases of iron ore products from us, or if we were unable to sell iron ore products to them on terms as favorable to us as the terms under our current term supply agreements, our sales, margins and profitability could suffer materially due to the high level of fixed costs and the high costs to idle or close mines. The majority of the iron ore we manage and produce is for our own account, and therefore we rely on sales to our joint venture partners and other third-party customers for most of our revenues. Mittal Steel USA idled its Weirton facility in 2005 and is contesting its minimum purchase requirement under our supply agreement. The Weirton facility accounted for approximately two percent of our North American sales in 2004. In addition, WCI and Stelco are operating under bankruptcy protection, as discussed below, and the bankruptcy or reorganization of our customers could affect our sales, margins and profitability. Changes in demand for our products by our customers could cause our sales, margins and profitability to fluctuate. Our North American term supply agreements generally are requirements contracts, the majority of which have no minimum requirement provisions, and some of which provide for flexibility of volume above minimum levels. Portman’s sales contracts are for fixed annual tonnages with customer options to increase or decrease annual purchases. A decrease in one or more of our customers’ requirements could cause our sales to decline, as we may not be able to find other customers to purchase our iron ore products as evidenced by Mittal Steel USA’s decision to idle its Weirton facility in 2005. In addition, if our customers’ requirements decline, since many of our production costs are fixed, our production costs per ton may rise, which may affect our margins and profitability. Unmitigated loss of sales would have a greater impact on margins and profitability than on revenues, due to the high level of fixed costs in the iron ore mining business and the high cost to idle or close mines. The provisions of our term supply agreements could cause our sales, margins and profitability to fluctuate. Our term supply agreements typically contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by the customer during specified events beyond the customer’s control, including raw material shortages, power failures, equipment failures, adverse weather conditions and other events. For example, one of our large customers notified us in January 2004 that it was reducing its requirements for iron ore pellets in the first quarter of 2004 by 180,000 long tons pursuant to the force majeure provisions of its term supply agreement with us. That customer invoked the force majeure provision due to a failure of U.S. Steel to ship the quantity of coke that the customer had ordered due to shortages caused by a fire at a mine that supplied coal to U.S. Steel. Price escalators in our term supply agreements also expose us to short-term price volatility, which can adversely affect our margins and profitability. Our term supply agreements also contain provisions requiring us to deliver iron ore pellets meeting quality thresholds for certain characteristics, such as chemical makeup. Failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties. All of these contractual provisions could adversely affect our sales, margins and profitability. We may have contractual disputes with our customers or significant suppliers of energy, materials, or services that could significantly impact our sales, revenue rates, production or operating costs. Most of our North American and Australian sales are under multi-year term sales agreements. Australian benchmark prices are driven from negotiations between the three major iron producers, CVRD, Rio Tinto and BHP, and the Chinese and Japanese steel mills. More than 97 percent of our North American revenues are 10 Table of Contents derived from sales of iron ore pellets to the North American integrated steel industry, consisting of 10 current or potential customers. Sales volume under these agreements is largely dependent on customer requirements, and in many cases, we are the sole supplier of iron ore pellets to the customer. Each agreement has a base price that is adjusted annually using one or more adjustment factors. Factors that could result in price adjustment include measures of general industrial inflation, steel prices and international pellet prices. One of our supply agreements has a provision that limits the amount of price increase or decrease in any given year. Contractual disputes with any of our significant customers could result in lower sales volume or lower sales prices. Additionally, we have significant contracts with suppliers of energy, materials and services in North American and Australia. Contractual disputes with significant suppliers could result in production curtailments or significant cost increases which could adversely impact our profitability. Mine closures entail substantial costs, and if we close one or more of our mines sooner than anticipated, our results of operations and financial condition may be significantly and adversely affected. If we close any of our mines, our revenues would be reduced unless we were able to increase production at any of our other mines, which may not be possible. The closure of an open-pit mine involves significant fixed closure costs, including accelerated employment legacy costs, severance-related obligations, reclamation and other environmental costs, and the costs of terminating long-term obligations, including energy contracts and equipment leases. We base our assumptions regarding the life of our mines on detailed studies we perform from time to time, but those studies and assumptions do not always prove to be accurate. We recognize the costs of reclaiming open pits, stockpiles, tailings ponds, roads and other mining support areas based on the estimated mining life of our property. If we were to reduce the estimated life of any of our mines, the mine-closure costs would be applied to a shorter period of production, which would increase production costs per ton produced and could significantly and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Further, if we were to close one or more of our mines prematurely, we would incur significant accelerated employment legacy costs, severance-related obligations, reclamation and other environmental costs, as well as asset impairment charges, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. A North American mine closure would significantly increase employment legacy costs, including our expense and funding costs for pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. First, retirement-eligible employees would be eligible for enhanced pension benefits under certain pension plans upon a mine closure. Second, the number of employees who are eligible for retirement under the pension plans would increase under special eligibility rules that apply upon a mine closure. Third, all employees eligible for retirement under the pension plans at the time of the mine closure also would be eligible for postretirement health and life insurance benefits, thereby accelerating our obligation to provide these benefits. Fourth, a closure of the Empire or Tilden mine likely would trigger withdrawal liability to the pension plan covering hourly employees there. Finally, a mine closure could trigger significant severance-related obligations. As a result, the closure of one or more of our mines could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Cockatoo Island operation in Australia is scheduled to close in 2007 and plans are in process to obtain all required governmental approvals. Since all of the employees are contractors, the cost of closing is significantly lower in Australia than in North America. Performance bonds are in place covering the estimated closure costs. Applicable statutes and regulations require that mining property be reclaimed following a mine closure in accordance with specified standards and an approved reclamation plan. The plan addresses matters such as removal of facilities and equipment, regrading, prevention of erosion and other forms of water pollution, revegetation and post-mining land use. We may be required to post a surety bond or other form of financial assurance equal to the cost of reclamation as set forth in the approved reclamation plan. The establishment of the final mine closure reclamation liability is based upon permit requirements and requires various estimates and assumptions, principally associated with reclamation costs and production levels. Although our management believes, based on currently available information, we are making adequate provisions for all expected reclamation and other costs associated with mine closures for which we will be responsible, our business, 11 Table of Contents results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected if such accruals were later determined to be insufficient. We have significantly reduced our ore reserve estimates for the Empire mine and may close the Empire mine sooner than we had anticipated, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We significantly decreased our ore reserve estimates for the Empire mine from 116 million tons at December 31, 2001 to 63 million tons at December 31, 2002 and further to 29 million tons at December 31, 2003. As of December 31, 2005, Empire’s estimated ore reserves decreased to approximately 17 million tons as a result of production in 2004 and 2005. If we were to close the Empire mine sooner than currently anticipated, we would incur significant mine closure costs, employment legacy costs, severance-related obligations, reclamation and other environmental costs and the costs of terminating long-term obligations, including energy contracts and equipment leases. A closure of the Empire mine sooner than we anticipate could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on the estimates of our recoverable reserves, and if those estimates are inaccurate, our financial condition may be adversely affected. We regularly evaluate our iron ore reserves based on revenues and costs and update them as required in accordance with SEC Industry Guide 7. Portman has published reserves which follow the Joint Ore Reserves Code (“JORC”) in Australia, which is similar to United States requirements. Changes to the reserve value to make them comply with SEC requirements have been made. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves of our mines, many of which have been in operation for several decades, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of reserves and future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as production capacity, effects of regulations by governmental agencies and future prices for iron ore, future industry conditions and operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and costs of extraction and reclamation costs, all of which may in fact vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of mineralized deposits attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of future net cash flows prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary substantially as the criteria change. Estimated ore reserves could be affected by future industry conditions, geological conditions and ongoing mine planning. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and if such variances are material, our sales and profitability could be adversely or positively affected. The price adjustment provisions of our North American term supply agreements may prevent us from increasing our prices to match international ore contract prices or to pass increased costs of production on to our customers. Our North American term supply agreements contain a number of price adjustment provisions, or price escalators, including adjustments based on general industrial inflation rates, the price of steel and the international price of iron ore pellets, among other factors, that allow us to adjust the prices under those agreements generally on an annual basis. Our price adjustment provisions are weighted and some are subject to annual collars, which limit our ability to raise prices to match international levels and fully capitalize on strong demand for iron ore. Most of our North American term supply agreements do not allow us to increase our prices and to directly pass through higher production costs to our customers. An inability to increase prices or pass along increased costs could adversely affect our margins and profitability. Our ability to collect payments from our customers depends on their creditworthiness. Our ability to receive payment for iron ore products sold and delivered to our customers depends on the creditworthiness of our customers. In North America, we ship iron ore products to some of our customers’ 12 Table of Contents yards in advance of payment for those products. Our rationale for shipping iron ore products to customers in advance of payment for, and transfer title for the product is to more closely relate timing of payment to consumption, thereby providing additional liquidity to our customers, and to reduce our financial risk to customer insolvency as title and risk of loss with respect to those products does not pass to the customer until payment for the pellets is received. Accordingly, there is typically a period of time in which pellets, as to which we have reserved title, are within our customers’ control. As discussed below, several of our customers have petitioned for protection under bankruptcy or other similar laws, and most of our North American customers have below-investment grade or no credit rating. Failure to receive payment from our customers for products that we have delivered could adversely affect our results of operations. Our change from a manager of iron ore mines on behalf of steel company owners to primarily a merchant of iron ore to steel company customers has increased our obligations with respect to those mines and has made our revenues, earnings and profit margins more dependent on sales of iron ore products and more susceptible to product demand and pricing fluctuations. Until recent years, we had principally acted as a manager of iron ore mines on behalf of steel company owners, and in that capacity had been generally entitled to management fees, royalties on reserves that we have leased or subleased to the Empire and Tilden mines, and income from our sales of iron ore products to our customers, including the other mine owners. Our current business model is increased ownership in our co-owned mines. In accordance with our revised business model, in 2002 we increased our ownership in (1) the Empire mine from 47 percent to 79 percent, (2) the Tilden mine from 40 percent to 85 percent, (3) the Hibbing mine from 15 percent to 23 percent, and (4) the Wabush mine from 23 percent to 27 percent. While we have gained greater control of the mines we operate, we have also increased our share of the operating costs, employment legacy costs and financial obligations associated with those mines. Our increased ownership of those mines has caused the management fees and royalties due to us from our partners in the mines to decline from $29.8 million in 2001 to $13.1 million in 2005. The decline in royalties and management fees has made our revenues, earnings and profit margins more volatile and more dependent on sales of our iron ore products to third-party customers. We rely on our joint venture partners in our mines to meet their payment obligations, and the inability of a joint venture partner to do so could significantly affect our operating costs. We co-own five of our six North American mines with various joint venture partners that are integrated steel producers or their subsidiaries, including Dofasco, Mittal Steel USA, Laiwu and Stelco. While we are the manager of each of the mines we co-own, we rely on our joint venture partners to make their required capital contributions and to pay for their share of the iron ore pellets that we produce. Most of our venture partners are also our customers and are subject to the creditworthiness risks described above. If one or more of our venture partners fail to perform their obligations, the remaining venturers, including ourselves, may be required to assume additional material obligations, including significant pension and postretirement health and life insurance benefit obligations. On January 29, 2004, Stelco applied and obtained bankruptcy-court protection from creditors in Ontario Superior Court under the Companies’ Creditors Arrangement Act. Stelco is a 44.6 percent participant in the Wabush Mines Joint Venture, and U.S. subsidiaries of Stelco (which have not filed for bankruptcy protection) own 14.7 percent of Hibbing and 15 percent of Tilden. Stelco has met its cash call requirements at the mining ventures to date. The premature closure of a mine due to the failure of a joint venture partner to perform its obligations could result in significant fixed mine-closure costs, including severance, employment legacy costs and other employment costs, reclamation and other environmental costs, and the costs of terminating long-term obligations, including energy contracts and equipment leases. Unanticipated geological conditions and natural disasters could increase the cost of operating our business. A portion of our production costs are fixed regardless of current operating levels. Our operating levels are subject to conditions beyond our control that can delay deliveries or increase the cost of mining at particular mines for varying lengths of time. These conditions include weather conditions (for example, extreme winter 13 Table of Contents weather, floods and availability of process water due to drought) and natural disasters, pit wall failures, unanticipated geological conditions, including variations in the amount of rock and soil overlying the deposits of iron ore, variations in rock and other natural materials and variations in geologic conditions and ore processing changes. Portman’s Cockatoo Island operation is located in an area affected by tropical storms and operates a pit below sea level that is protected by a constructed seawall. Storms in this area could affect both our operation and the operations of our major Australian competitors. These conditions could impair our ability to fulfill our plan to operate our mines at full capacity, which could materially adversely affect our ability to meet the expected demand for our iron ore products. Many of our mines are dependent on a single-source energy supplier, and interruption in energy services may have a significant adverse effect on our sales, margins and profitability. Many of our mines are dependent on one source for electric power and for natural gas. For example, Minnesota Power is the sole supplier of electric power to our Hibbing and United Taconite mines; Wisconsin Energy Corporation is the sole supplier of electric power to our Tilden and Empire mines; and our Northshore mine is largely dependent on its wholly owned power facility for its electrical supply. A significant interruption in service from our energy suppliers due to terrorism, weather conditions, natural disasters, or any other cause can result in substantial losses that may not be fully covered by our business interruption insurance. For example, in May 2003, we incurred approximately $11.1 million in fixed costs relating to lost production when our Empire and Tilden mines were idled for approximately five weeks due to loss of power stemming from the failure of a dam in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. One natural gas pipeline serves all of our Minnesota and Michigan mines, and a pipeline failure may idle those operations. Any substantial unmitigated interruption of our business due to these conditions could materially adversely affect our sales, margins and profitability. Our mines and processing facilities have been in operation for several decades. Equipment failures and other unexpected events at our facilities may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. Interruptions in production capabilities will inevitably increase our production costs and reduce our profitability. We do not have meaningful excess capacity for current production needs, and we are not able to quickly increase production at one mine to offset an interruption in production at another mine. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or adverse weather conditions. The manufacturing processes that take place in our mining operations, as well as in our crushing, concentrating and pelletizing facilities, depend on critical pieces of equipment, such as drilling and blasting equipment, crushers, grinding mills, pebble mills, thickeners, separators, filters, mixers, furnaces, kilns and rolling equipment, as well as electrical equipment, such as transformers. This equipment may, on occasion, be out of service because of unanticipated failures. In addition, many of our mines and processing facilities have been in operation for several decades, and the equipment is aged. For example, in November 2003, our Tilden facility experienced a crack in a kiln riding ring that required the shutdown of that kiln in its pelletizing plant, resulting in a production loss of approximately .3 million tons in 2003. In the future, we may experience additional material plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production because of equipment failures. Material plant shutdowns or reductions in operations could materially adversely affect our sales, margins and profitability. Further, remediation of any interruption in production capability may require us to make large capital expenditures that could have a negative effect on our profitability and cash flows. Our business interruption insurance would not cover all of the lost revenues associated with equipment failures. Further, longer-term business disruptions could result in a loss of customers, which could adversely affect our future sales levels, and therefore our profitability. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which imposes, and will continue to impose, significant costs and liabilities on us, and future regulation could increase those costs and liabilities or limit our ability to produce iron ore products. We are subject to various federal, provincial, state and local laws and regulations on matters such as employee health and safety, air quality, water pollution, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties, the discharge of materials into the environment, and the effects that mining 14 Table of Contents has on groundwater quality and availability. Numerous governmental permits and approvals are required for our operations. We cannot be assured that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws, regulations and permits. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. Prior to commencement of mining, we must submit to, and obtain approval from, the appropriate regulatory authority of plans showing where and how mining and reclamation operations are to occur. These plans must include information such as the location of mining areas, stockpiles, surface waters, haul roads, tailings basins and drainage from mining operations. All requirements imposed by any such authority may be costly and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations. See “