ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are the material risks and uncertainties that we believe are relevant to us. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. These are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of, focused on, or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. 11 RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We May Not be Able to Continue to Operate as a Going Concern. We reported a net loss of $124.2 million in 2010, and total losses of $430.1 million in the past three years. We have determined that the Bank will have to be recapitalized in the very near future to continue operations. We have engaged financial advisors and have been working with them to explore a number of strategic alternatives to recapitalize the Bank. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise enough capital to complete a successful recapitalization. Federal regulators are continually monitoring the Bank’s liquidity and capital adequacy and evaluating our ability to continue to operate in a safe and sound manner. The Bank’s regulator could, if deemed warranted, impose additional enforcement actions or appoint the FDIC as receiver of the Bank, to protect the interests of the depositors insured by the FDIC. The uncertainty regarding our ability to obtain additional capital or meet future liquidity requirements raises doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements included in this report, however, do not include any adjustments that may result as an outcome of these uncertainties. In addition, our customers, employees, vendors, correspondent institutions, and others with whom we do business may react negatively to the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. This negative reaction may lead to heightened concerns regarding our financial condition that could result in losses in deposits and customer relationships, key employees, vendor relationships and our ability to do business with correspondent institutions upon which we rely. Failure to Comply With Bank Regulatory Agreements and Directives Will Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business. The Bank is subject to primary supervision and regulation by the OCC, while we are subject to primary supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve. We and the Bank are currently subject to a number of enforcement actions with our regulators. The Bank is subject to a formal agreement it entered into with the OCC in May 2009 that requires the Bank to reduce its non-performing assets and improve earnings. In August 2010, the Bank received a Capital Directive from the OCC directing it to increase and maintain its Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio to at least 11.5% and its Tier 1 Leverage Ratio to at least 8% by November 20, 2010, which it failed to do. The additional capital required to satisfy the Capital Directive as of December 31, 2010 was approximately $119.0 million. In May 2010, we entered into an agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. Pursuant to the agreement, we made commitments to, among other things, use financial and management resources to assist Integra Bank in addressing weaknesses identified by the OCC, not pay dividends on outstanding shares or interest or other sums on outstanding trust preferred securities and not incur any additional debt. Any material failures to comply with the agreement would likely result in more stringent enforcement actions by the Federal Reserve which could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. On January 30, 2011, the Bank filed its call report as of December 31, 2010, indicating that its regulatory capital had declined from the "adequately capitalized" to "undercapitalized" category for purposes of the Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) regulations. As an undercapitalized bank, the Bank is subject to several mandatory requirements, including restrictions on payment of capital distributions and management fees, asset growth and on certain expansionary activities, including acquisitions, new branches and new lines of business. The Bank is also required to submit an acceptable Capital Restoration Plan ("CRP") to the OCC no later than March 16, 2011. The CRP must include a written guarantee from the Company of the Bank's obligations until the Bank has been adequately capitalized on average during each of four consecutive calendar quarters and the guarantee must be secured by a pledge of assets acceptable to the OCC. Failure to submit an acceptable CRP would result in the Bank being treated as if it was in the "significantly undercapitalized" category for PCA purposes. This would result in the imposition of additional enforcement actions or restrictions. Imposition of additional enforcement actions could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business. Ultimately, if the OCC believes the CRP is unacceptable or is not expected to result in the recapitalization of the Bank, it could appoint the FDIC as receiver of the Bank. Imposition of more stringent enforcement actions could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business. The OCC may also appoint the FDIC as receiver for the Bank if the OCC believes the CRP is unacceptable and is not expected to result in the recapitalization of the Bank. 12 We are Required to Raise Additional Capital, but That Capital May Not Be Available. We and the Bank are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support operations. Additional capital is also required for the Bank to support future loan losses. Our ability to raise additional capital depends on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance and prospects. Accordingly, we cannot be certain of our ability to raise additional capital on any terms. If we cannot raise additional capital, we and the Bank expect to be subject to additional adverse regulatory action including the prospect of the Bank being placed into FDIC receivership, resulting in a complete loss of value for all of our equity holders. Our Holding Company Debt and Preferred Stock Makes it Difficult to Raise Capital. At December 31, 2010, we had an aggregate obligation of $102.7 million relating to the principal and accrued unpaid interest on six issues of junior subordinate debentures we have issued. Four of the debentures are held by our statutory business trust subsidiaries that issued trust preferred securities or TRUPs. The TRUPs and the other junior subordinated debentures are held in collaterallized debt obligation (CDO) trusts and were pooled with similar securities issued at the same time by other banks or bank holding companies. The CDO trusts then issued CDO securities to investors in multiple tranches with differing terms of payment and priority. Payments on the CDO securities are funded by payments on the TRUPs or debentures held by the CDO trusts. Each of the CDO trusts are fixed pools meaning that the pooled assets were not intended to be sold, exchanged or modified prior to their maturity. Although we are permitted to defer payments on these securities for up to five years (and we commenced doing so in 2009), the deferred interest payments continue to accrue until paid in full. In addition, in February 2009 we issued shares of preferred stock and common stock purchase warrants to the U. S. Treasury Department under the TARP/Capital Purchase Plan. The preferred stock has an aggregate liquidation preference of $83.6 million and carries a cumulative dividend of 5% per annum which would increase to 9% in 2014. We stopped paying dividends on the Treasury preferred stock in 2009. Like the holding company debt, unpaid dividends on the Treasury preferred stock continue to accrue until the preferred stock is repaid or restructured. Our holding company debt and the Treasury preferred stock make it difficult to recapitalize or sell the parent company because any investor or purchaser would effectively assume the outstanding liability on the debt and be required to repay or restructure the Treasury preferred stock in addition to the amount of funds such investors or purchaser would need to recapitalize the Bank. The Bank has a Significant Concentration in Commercial Real Estate Loans and Continued Deterioration in the Market for Commercial Properties could Significantly Harm its Business and Prospects for Growth. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 75% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial, agricultural, construction and commercial real estate loans. These types of loans are typically larger than residential real estate and consumer loans, which made up the remaining 25% of our loan portfolio. Because the portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and industrial, agricultural, construction and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans can lead to a significant increase in non-performing loans. Increases in non-performing loans typically result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Allowance for Credit losses may not be Adequate to Cover Actual Losses. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we maintain an allowance for credit losses. The allowance for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could adversely impact operating results. The allowance for credit losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the inherent risks in the current portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the loans and allowance for credit losses. While management believes that the allowance for credit losses is adequate to cover current potential losses, management may decide to increase the allowance for credit losses or regulators may require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could reduce future earnings and regulatory capital ratios. 13 Our Net Interest Income Has Been Declining. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Net interest income is dependent on both the level of our earning assets and interest spread. The portions of our assets that are non-earning have increased significantly during the past three years, reducing our net interest income. Further increases in non-earning assets would further reduce net interest income. We have also experienced a significant increase in low earning assets such as cash and zero percent risk weighted U.S. Treasuries and GNMA investment securities in order to maintain a high level of liquidity. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (1) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (2) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and (3) the average duration of our earning assets. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Our Allowance for Loan Losses May be Insufficient. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense. This reserve represents our best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in our judgment is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects our ongoing evaluation of various factors, including growth of the portfolio, an analysis of individual credits, adverse situations that could affect a borrower’s ability to repay, prior and current loss experience, the results of regulatory examinations, and current economic conditions. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers and guarantors, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any further significant increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our annual provision for 2010 was $134.6 million, $20.2 million more than our net charge-offs of $114.4 million. Our Profitability Depends Significantly on Local Economic Conditions and Trends. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the specific local markets in which we operate. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services primarily to customers within a market area of approximately 100 miles surrounding Evansville, Indiana. The local economic conditions in this area have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We Are Not Able to Pay Interest Payments on our Junior Subordinated Debentures and Dividends on our Common and Preferred Stock. We have suspended cash dividends on our common stock and the Treasury Preferred Stock and are deferring interest payments on our outstanding junior subordinated debentures. Deferring interest payments on certain of the junior subordinated debentures also results in a deferral of distributions on related trust preferred securities. Deferred payments on our junior subordinated debentures and dividends on the Treasury Preferred Stock are cumulative and therefore unpaid dividends and distributions will accrue and compound on each subsequent payment date. In the event we become subject to any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of affairs, first, the holders of our trust preferred securities, junior subordinated debentures and other creditors and second, holders of the preferred stock will be entitled to receive the liquidation amounts they are entitled to plus the amount of any accrued and unpaid distributions and dividends, before any distribution to the holders of common stock. We Operate in a Highly Competitive Industry and Market Area. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the various markets in which we operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. Additionally, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Some of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. Local or privately held community banking organizations in certain markets may price or structure their products in such a way that it makes it difficult for us to compete in those markets in a way that allows us to meet our profitability or credit goals. Any competitor may choose to offer pricing on loans and deposits that we think is irrational and choose to not compete with. Competitors may also be willing to extend credit without obtaining covenants or collateral and by offering weaker loan structures than we are willing to accept. 14 If we fail to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships in any of these areas, our competitive position and ability to retain market share or grow would be weakened, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We Are Subject to Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision and Face Legal Risks. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not creditors or shareholders. These regulations affect several areas, including our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, and requirements to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to our customers. Congress and federal agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation of statutes, regulations or policies could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies, or the agreements with our regulators could result in more severe enforcement sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. Additionally, the number of regulations we must comply with and the financial resources required to comply with those regulations has continually increased. The cost of complying with these regulations makes it more difficult to remain competitive. The agencies regulating the financial services industry frequently adopt changes to their regulations. Substantial regulatory and legislative initiatives, including a comprehensive overhaul of the regulatory system in the United States are possible in the years ahead. We are unable to predict whether any of these initiatives will succeed, which form they will take, or whether any additional changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. Any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Controls and Procedures May Fail or be Circumvented. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could result in fraud, operational or other losses that adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Fraud risks could include fraud by employees, vendors, customers or anyone we or our customers do business or come in contact with. We Cannot Rely On Dividends From the Bank. As a holding company we are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiary, Integra Bank. Historically, we have received substantially all of our revenue in the form of dividends from the Bank. Federal laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to us. Recent losses have had the consequence of not allowing the Bank to pay any dividends to us without prior regulatory approval. The holding company has no other sources of revenue. We May Not Be Able to Attract and Retain Skilled People. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our local markets, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. 15 Our Information Systems May Experience an Interruption or Breach in Security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems, including risks to data integrity. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We Continually Encounter Technological Change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. We Are Subject to the Risk of Additional Impairment Charges Relating to Our Securities Portfolio. Our investment securities portfolio is our second largest earning asset. The value of our investment portfolio has been adversely affected by the unfavorable conditions of the capital markets in general as well as declines in values of the securities we hold. We have taken an aggregate of $22.6 million in charges against earnings since January 1, 2009 for impairments to the value of pooled collateralized debt obligations that we have concluded were "other than temporary." The value of this segment is particularly sensitive to adverse developments affecting the banking industry and the financial condition or performance of the issuing banks – factors that we have no control over and as to which we may receive no advance warning. Although we believe we have appropriately valued our securities portfolio, we cannot assure you that there will not be additional material impairment charges which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our Common Stock May Not Qualify for Continued Listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market after June 27, 2011. Our common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, but it will be delisted unless the closing price of the common stock exceeds $1 for at least ten consecutive trading days prior to June 27, 2011. Although we have agreed to effect a reverse stock split if necessary to regain compliance with the minimum bid rule of the Nasdaq Capital Market, the reverse stock may not have the desired effect. If our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, there is no assurance that a liquid and efficient market for common stock will be available or develop. Although the shares may be eligible for trading on other exchanges, such as the “OTC Bulletin Board,” it is possible that the ability of a selling shareholder to realize the best market price will be impeded as the result of wider bid-ask spreads. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 