Item 1A. Risk Factors This report on Form 10-K includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this Form 10-K, including, without limitation, statements contained 11 Table of Contents in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” located elsewhere in this report regarding our financial position, business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations, future sales, and industry conditions, are forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. In addition to important factors described elsewhere in this report, we caution current and potential investors that the following important risk factors, among others, sometimes have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause such results during fiscal 2007 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Intervoice: • We are prone to quarterly sales fluctuations. The sales value of an individual order for our solutions and services can range from a few thousand dollars to several million dollars depending on the complexity of our customer’s business need and the size of its operations. The quantity and size of large sales (sales valued at approximately $2.0 million or more) during any quarter can cause wide variations in our quarterly sales and earnings, as such sales are often unevenly distributed throughout the fiscal year. In addition, some of our sales transactions are completed in the same fiscal quarter as ordered. Our accuracy in estimating future sales is largely dependent on our ability to successfully qualify, estimate and close solution sales from our pipeline of sales opportunities during a quarter. No matter how promising a pipeline opportunity may appear, there is no assurance it will ever result in a sale. The accuracy of our estimate of future sales is also dependent on our ability to accurately estimate the amount of revenue to be contributed from beginning backlog and revenue from cash basis customers during any fiscal quarter. This estimate can be affected by factors outside our control, including changes in project timing requested by our customers. Accordingly, our actual sales for any fiscal reporting period may be significantly different than any estimate of sales we make for such period. See the discussion entitled Sales in Item 7 of Part II for a discussion of our system for estimating sales and tracking sales trends in our business. • We are subject to potential and pending lawsuits and other claims. We are subject to certain potential and pending lawsuits and other claims discussed in Item 3 Legal Proceedings of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Furthermore, we may become subject to claims, including claims by the government, or other adverse consequences arising from the findings of the Audit Committee investigation and related SEC inquiries discussed in Item 3. We, and certain of our current and former officers and non-officer employees are currently responding to or have responded to SEC subpoenas to produce documents and provide testimony about the transactions that were the subject of the investigation. Any adverse judgment, penalty or settlement related to any lawsuit or other such claim could have consequences that would be material to our financial position or results of operations. We may be required to indemnify certain of our current and former directors and officers under existing arrangements in connection with the shareholder’s derivative suit in addition to the indemnification we are currently providing to certain individuals in connection with the class action lawsuit and the SEC investigation. Our insurance policies provide coverage for losses and expenses incurred by us and our current and former directors and officers in connection with claims made under the federal securities laws. These policies, however, exclude losses and expenses related to the Barrie class action lawsuit discussed in Item 3 or to other litigation based on claims that are substantially the same as the claims in the Barrie class action and contain other customary provisions to limit or exclude coverage for certain losses and expenses. • We may not be successful in integrating the operations and products and retaining the customers of Edify, and this could negatively impact our business. We believe we will be able to achieve certain cost savings and other synergies as a result of combining Intervoice and Edify, but there can be no assurance that such synergies will be realized. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to integrate and operate Edify successfully with our business. Any inability to integrate the products of Intervoice and Edify while maintaining or increasing the market share that such products had prior to the merger could decrease the revenues historically generated from these products. Customers of Intervoice and Edify may delay their purchase of products or services from one or both companies to 12 Table of Contents consider any potential implications the acquisition may have for products and services offered by either company. In addition, the integration process will require the dedication of management resources, which may temporarily distract attention from our day-to-day business. Our future success will also depend in part on our ability to retain and assimilate certain key employees of Edify. There can be no assurance that we will be able to efficiently integrate and operate Edify and its products with our business, maintain business relationships with Edify’s customers and retain and assimilate key employees of Edify. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or our financial condition. Further, Edify provides products and services which are similar to our products and services and, accordingly, our Edify operations are generally subject to most of the other risk factors discussed in this Item 1A. • We face intense competition based on product capabilities, and we experience ever increasing demands from our actual and prospective customers for our products to be compatible with a variety of rapidly proliferating computing, telephony and computer networking technologies and standards. Our success is dependent, to a large degree, on our effectiveness in allocating resources to developing and improving products compatible with those technologies, standards and functionalities that ultimately become widely accepted by our current and prospective customers. Our success is also dependent, to a large degree, on our ability to implement arrangements with vendors of complementary product offerings so that we can provide our current and prospective customers greater functionality. Our principal competitors include Genesys, Avaya, Nortel, Nuance Communications, Comverse Technology, Unisys and Lucent Technologies. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technological and marketing resources than we have, as well as greater name recognition. Although we have committed substantial resources to enhance our existing products and to develop and market new products, there is no assurance we will be successful. In addition, it is possible that new entrants to the market and strategic acquisitions and partnerships between existing companies could increase the competition in the markets in which we participate. An increase in such competition could materially adversely affect our ability to sell our products thereby adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. • We may not be successful in transitioning our products and services to an open, standards-based business model. Intervoice has historically provided complete, bundled hardware and software solutions using internally developed components to address our customers’ total business needs. Increasingly, the markets for our products are requiring a shift to the development of products and services based on an open, standards-based architecture such as the J2EE and Microsoft’s®.NET environments utilizing VoiceXML and/or SALT standards. Such an open, standards-based approach allows customers to independently purchase and combine hardware components, standardized software modules, and customization, installation and integration services from individual vendors deemed to offer the best value in the particular class of product or service. In such an environment, we believe we may sell less hardware and fewer bundled systems and may become increasingly dependent on our development and sale of software application packages, customized software and consulting and integration services. This shift will place new challenges on us to transition our products and to hire and retain the mix of personnel necessary to respond to this business environment, to adapt to the changing expense structure that the new environment may tend to foster, and to increase sales of services, customized software and application packages to offset reduced sales of hardware and bundled solutions. Failure to develop, enhance, acquire and introduce new products to respond to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or lack of customer acceptance of our products will materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. • We may not be able to retain our customer base, and, in particular, our more significant customers. Our success is heavily dependent on our ability to retain our significant customers, including those of Edify. The loss of one of our significant customers could negatively impact our operating results. Our installed base of customers generally is not contractually obligated to place further solutions orders with us or to extend their services contracts with us at the expiration of their current contracts. 13 Table of Contents • We will be harmed if we lose key business and technical personnel. We rely upon the services of a relatively small number of key technical, project management and senior management personnel, most of whom do not have employment contracts. If we were to lose any of our key personnel, replacing them could be difficult and costly. If we were unable to successfully and promptly replace such personnel, our business could be materially harmed. • Our reliance on significant vendor relationships could result in significant expense or an inability to serve our customers if we lose these relationships. Although we generally use standard parts and components in our products, some of our components, including semi-conductors and, in particular, digital signal processors manufactured by Texas Instruments, are available only from a small number of vendors. Likewise, we license speech recognition technology from a small number of vendors. Two of these vendors, ScanSoft, Inc. and Nuance Communications, Inc., recently completed a merger of their organizations and now the combined company has a dominant market position. As we continue to migrate to open, standards-based systems, we will become increasingly dependent on our component suppliers and software vendors. To date, we have been able to obtain adequate supplies of needed components and licenses in a timely manner, and we expect to continue to be able to do so. Nevertheless, if our significant vendors are unable to supply components or licenses at current levels, we may not be able to obtain these items from another source or at historical prices. In such instances, we would be unable to provide products and services to our customers or generate historical operating margins, and our business and operating results would suffer. • If third parties assert claims that our products or services infringe on their technology and related intellectual property rights, whether the claims are made directly against us or against our customers, we could incur substantial costs in connection with these claims. We believe software and technology companies, including Intervoice and others in our industry, increasingly may become subject to infringement claims. Such claims may require us to enter into costly license agreements or result in even more costly litigation. To the extent a licensing arrangement is required, the arrangement may not be available at all, or, if available, may be very expensive or even prohibitively expensive. As with any legal proceeding, there is no guarantee we will prevail in any litigation instituted against us asserting infringement of intellectual property rights. To the extent we suffer an adverse judgment, we might have to pay substantial damages, discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, repurchase infringing products from our customers in accordance with indemnity obligations, expend significant resources to acquire non-infringing alternatives, and/or obtain licenses to the intellectual property that has been infringed upon. As with licensing arrangements, non-infringing substitute technologies may not be available and, if available, may be very expensive, or even prohibitively expensive, to implement. Accordingly, for all of the foregoing reasons, a claim of infringement could ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. • We are exposed to risks related to our international operations that could increase our costs and hurt our business. Our products are currently sold in more than 75 countries. Our international sales were 45% of total sales for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2006 and 41% of total sales for fiscal years 2005 and 2004, respectively. International sales, personnel and property are subject to certain risks, including: • terrorism; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • the difficulty and expense of maintaining foreign offices and distribution channels; • tariffs and other barriers to trade; • greater difficulty in protecting and enforcing intellectual property rights; • general economic and political conditions in each country; • loss of revenue, property and equipment from expropriation; 14 Table of Contents • import and export licensing requirements; and • additional expenses and risks inherent in conducting operations in geographically distant locations, including risks arising from differences in language and cultural approaches to the conduct of business. • Our inability to meet contracted performance targets could subject us to significant penalties. Many of our contracts, particularly for managed services, foreign contracts and contracts with telecommunication companies, include provisions for the assessment of damages for delayed project completion and/or for our failure to achieve certain minimum service levels. We have had to pay damages in the past and may have to pay additional damages in the future. Any such future damages could be significant. • Increasing consolidation in the telecommunications and financial industries could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The majority of our largest customers are in the telecommunications and financial industries. These industries are undergoing significant consolidation as a result of merger and acquisition activity. This activity could result in a decrease in the number of customers purchasing our products and/or in delayed purchases of our products by customers that are reviewing their strategic alternatives in light of a pending merger or acquisition. If these results occur, our revenues and profitability could decline. • Our products are complex, and software defects could reduce our revenues and expose us to litigation. The software products we offer are complex and may contain errors or defects, even after extensive testing and quality control, particularly in early versions. Furthermore, because our products increasingly are designed around an open, standards based architecture incorporating elements developed by third parties, such errors or defects may be outside of our direct ability to control or correct. Any defects or errors could potentially result in loss of revenues, product returns or order cancellations, and could potentially hinder market acceptance of our products and harm our reputation. Accordingly, any defects or errors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our customer license agreements typically contain provisions to limit our product warranty obligations and exposure to potential liability claims. • We are implementing a new company-wide ERP system during fiscal 2007. During fiscal 2007, we expect to complete the implementation of a new, company-wide ERP system. Our new system will affect all facets of our business including our ability to quote, receive and process orders, track inventory and work in process, ship and bill completed orders, process and apply cash receipts from our customers and summarize and report the results of our operations. If we encounter problems in the implementation of our new system, our ability to conduct our daily operations in an efficient, effective and properly controlled manner could be compromised, and our operating results could suffer. In addition, any such implementation problems could cause us to expend significant time and other resources in an effort to resolve such problems, and this diversion of management and staff time could further adversely affect our ability to serve our customers and sustain our normal operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 Table of Contents 