ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are the material risks and uncertainties that we believe are relevant to us. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. These are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of, focused on, or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Any forward-looking statements in this report are qualified by reference to these risk factors. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” for an explanation of forward-looking statements. 9 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We Are Subject to Interest Rate Risk. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (1) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (2) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and (3) the average duration of our earning assets. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. We Are Subject to Lending Risk. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where we operate. Increases in interest rates, minimum required payments, energy prices and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, the value of the collateral securing loans, or demand for our loan products. We are also subject to various laws and regulations that affect our lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil money penalties. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 75% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial, agricultural, construction and commercial real estate loans. These types of loans are typically larger than residential real estate and consumer loans, which made up the remaining 25% of our loan portfolio. Because the portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and industrial, agricultural, construction and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans can lead to a significant increase in non-performing loans. Increases in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our Allowance for Loan Losses May be Insufficient. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense. This reserve represents our best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in our judgment is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects our ongoing evaluation of various factors, including growth of the portfolio, an analysis of individual credits, adverse situations that could affect a borrower’s ability to repay, prior and current loss experience, the results of regulatory examinations, and current economic conditions. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our Profitability Depends Significantly on Local Economic Conditions and Trends. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the specific local markets in which we operate. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services primarily to customers in Southern Indiana, Southern and Central Illinois, as well as in the Chicago area, Western, Central and Northern Kentucky and Southwest Ohio. We have commercial real estate loan production offices located in Cleveland, Cincinnati, and Columbus, Ohio, as well as Louisville, Kentucky, and we have a commercial banking team in the Cincinnati, Ohio area. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Current Market Developments May Adversely Affect our Industry, Business, Results of Operations and Access to Capital. At the time of filing this report, the United States is in a recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many companies are in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. The current slowing economy is evidenced by the continued negative outlook and sentiment, market disruptions, slowing growth rates, declines in housing prices and increases in the consumer price index, in part driven by higher energy and food prices and by employment concerns. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to securities issued by government-sponsored entities, credit default swaps and other derivative securities, in turn have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have ceased to provide funding to even the most credit-worthy borrowers or to other financial institutions. The resulting lack of available credit and lack of confidence in the financial markets could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our access to capital. In particular, we face the following risks in connection with these events: • Further declines in the housing market and the increased volatility of the stock market may adversely affect consumer confidence and may cause adverse changes in loan payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates. • The processes we use to estimate probable losses and impairment of assets, including investment securities, may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future charge-offs. • Additional losses and declines in financial performance in the banking industry could negatively impact the value of our trust-preferred securities portfolio and result in additional other-than-temporary impairment; • A decline in consumer confidence could also result in withdrawal of deposit funds by consumers, negatively impacting our liquidity. • Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events. • We may be required to pay higher FDIC premiums because of the increased deposit coverage and the closure of other financial institutions could deplete the insurance fund of the FDIC. As each of the above conditions continues to exist or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums could affect our earnings, liquidity and capital. In February, 2009, the FDIC adopted an interim rule increasing insurance assessments and also imposed a special 20 basis point one-time emergency special assessment. The proposed 20 basis point assessment would be based on deposits as of June 30, 2009 and would be payable at September 30, 2009. We estimate that the cost of the one-time assessment will approximate $5,000 for us. Should the condition of the banking industry continue to decline, it is possible that the FDIC could increase rates further or assess additional emergency assessments and that those increases or assessments could materially affect our reported earnings, liquidity or capital. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. We have an incentive to raise at least $83,600 by the end of the year in order to reduce the dilutive effect of the Warrant we recently issued to the Treasury Department. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital in response to deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we can raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 11 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions will stabilize the United States banking system and the enactment of these initiatives may significantly affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or stock price. In 2008 and continuing into 2009, governments, regulators and central banks in the United States and worldwide have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, but asset values have continued to decline and access to liquidity continues to be very limited. The EESA authorizes the Treasury Department to, among other things, purchase up to $700,000,000 of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions and their holding companies. The purpose of EESA is to restore confidence and stability to the United States banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. Under the Capital Purchase Program, the Treasury Department is purchasing equity securities from participating institutions. For more information regarding our participation in the Capital Purchase Program, see the discussion under the caption “Participation in Capital Purchase Program” in “Item 1—Business” of this report. The EESA also increased federal deposit insurance on most deposit accounts from $100 to $250. This increase is in place until the end of 2009. The ARRA, which was signed into law on February 17, 2009, includes a wide array of programs intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health and education needs. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. The EESA and the ARRA followed, and have been followed by, numerous actions by the Federal Reserve, the United States Congress, the Treasury Department, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime mortgage market meltdown that began in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the United States banking system. The EESA, the ARRA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Because of our participation in the Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to several restrictions including restrictions on our ability to declare or pay dividends and repurchase our shares as well as restrictions on compensation paid to our executive officers. Pursuant to the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement, our ability to declare or pay dividends on any of our shares is limited. Specifically, we are unable to declare or pay dividends on our common stock, junior preferred shares or pari passu preferred shares if we are in arrears on the payment of dividends on the Treasury Preferred Stock. Further, we are not permitted to increase dividends on our common stock above the amount of our last quarterly cash dividend of $0.01 per share without the Treasury Department’s approval until December 23, 2011, unless all of the Treasury Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred by the Treasury Department to unaffiliated third parties. In addition, our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock is restricted. The consent of the Treasury Department generally is required for us to make any stock repurchase (other than purchases of Treasury Preferred Stock or purchases of junior preferred shares or common stock in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice) until December 23, 2011, unless all of the Treasury Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred by the Treasury Department to unaffiliated third parties. Further, our common stock, junior preferred shares or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased if we are in arrears on the payment of Treasury Preferred Stock dividends. 12 Table of Contents As a recipient of government funding under the Capital Purchase Program, we must comply with the executive compensation and corporate governance standards imposed by the ARRA for so long as the Treasury Department holds any securities acquired from us pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement or upon exercise of the Warrant, excluding any period during which the Treasury Department holds only the Warrant. These standards include (but are not limited to) (i) ensuring that incentive compensation plans and arrangements for Senior Executive Officers do not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten our value; (ii) required clawback of any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation paid (or under a legally binding obligation to be paid) to a Senior Executive Officer or any of our 20 next most highly-compensated employees based on materially inaccurate financial statements or other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria; (iii) prohibitions on making golden parachute payments to Senior Executive Officers and our five next most highly-compensated employees, except for payments for services performed or benefits accrued; (iv) prohibitions on paying or accruing any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation with respect to our five most highly-compensated employees or such higher number as the Secretary of the Treasury Department may determine is in the public interest, except for grants of restricted stock that do not fully vest while we participate in the Capital Purchase Program and do not have a value which exceeds one-third of an employee’s total annual compensation; (v) prohibitions on compensation plans that encourage manipulation of reported earnings; (vi) retroactive review of bonuses, retention awards or other compensation that the Treasury Department finds to be inconsistent with the purposes of the Capital Purchase Program or otherwise contrary to the public interest; (vii) required establishment of a company-wide policy regarding “excessive or luxury expenditures”; (viii) inclusion in our proxy statements for annual shareholder meetings of a non-binding “say on pay” shareholder vote on the compensation of executives; and (ix) agreement not to claim a deduction, for federal income tax purposes, for compensation paid to any of the Senior Executive Officers in excess of $500,000 per year. These standards are more stringent than those currently in effect under the Capital Purchase Program and the Securities Purchase Agreement or those previously proposed by the Treasury Department. However, it is still unclear how these standards will relate to the similar standards announced by the Treasury Department in the guidelines it issued on February 4, 2009, or whether the standards will be considered effective immediately or only after the Treasury Department adopts implementing regulations. The Decline in Fair Value of our Stock Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Raise Capital, Dilute Current Shareholders’ Ownership or Make it More Expensive to Raise Capital. The decline in the market prices of financial stocks in general, and our stock in particular, since January 1, 2008, could make it more expensive for us to raise capital in the public or private markets. In many situations, our Board of Directors has the authority, without any vote of our shareholders, to issue shares of our authorized but unissued securities, including shares of common stock authorized and unissued under our stock option plans or additional shares of preferred stock. In the future, we may issue additional securities, through public or private offerings, in order to raise additional capital. Any such issuance of common stock at current trading prices would significantly dilute the ownership of our current shareholders because we would have to issue more shares than if we had raised the same amount of capital when our share price was higher. A decline in our performance could adversely impact our stock price and the level of interest in an equity offering making it more difficult or expensive to attract investors’ interest. In the case of a debt offering, it could also result in a higher cost of funds, which could negatively impact our future earnings. If we are unable to redeem the Treasury Preferred Stock after five years, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we do not redeem the Treasury Preferred Stock prior to February 27, 2014, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum to 9.0% per annum. Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Treasury Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on our liquidity. The Treasury Preferred Stock impacts net income available to holders of our common stock and earnings per share of our common stock, and the Warrant we issued to the Treasury Department may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. While the additional capital we raised through our participation in the Treasury Department’s Capital Purchase Program provides further funding to our business and we believe has improved investor perceptions with regard to our financial position, it has increased our equity and the number of actual and diluted outstanding shares of common stock as well as our preferred dividend requirements. The dividends declared and the accretion of discount on the Treasury Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to holders of our common stock and our earnings per share. The Treasury Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the Warrant we issued to the Treasury Department in conjunction with the sale to the Treasury Department of the Treasury Preferred Stock is exercised. The common stock underlying the Warrant represents approximately 36% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of February 28, 2009. Although the Treasury Department has agreed not to vote any of the common stock it receives upon exercise of the Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the Warrant or of any common stock acquired upon exercise of the Warrant is not bound by this restriction. 13 Table of Contents We Operate in a Highly Competitive Industry and Market Area. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the various markets in which we operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. Additionally, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Some of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. Local or privately held community banking organizations in certain markets may price or structure their products in such a way that it makes it difficult for us to compete in those markets in a way that allows us to meet our profitability or credit goals. Any competitor may choose to offer pricing on loans and deposits that we think is irrational and choose to not compete with. Competitors may also be willing to extend credit without obtaining covenants or collateral and by offering weaker loan structures than we are willing to accept. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: • The ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships; • The ability to expand our market position; • The scope, relevance and pricing of products and services; • Our reputation with consumers who reside in the markets we serve; • The rate at which we introduce new products and services; • Customer satisfaction; and • Industry and general economic trends. If we fail to perform in any of these areas, our competitive position and ability to retain market share or grow would be weakened, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We Are Subject to Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision and Face Legal Risks. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect several areas, including our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, and requirements to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to our customers. Congress and federal agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation of statutes, regulations or policies could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. Additionally, the number of regulations we must comply with and the financial resources required to comply with those regulations has continually increased. The cost of complying with these regulations makes it more difficult to remain competitive. In light of current conditions in the global financial markets and the global economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Most recently, government has intervened on an unprecedented scale in responding to the stresses experienced in the global financial markets. Some of the measures subject us and other institutions for which they were designed to additional restrictions, oversight or costs that may have an impact on our business, results of operations or the trading price of our common stock. Proposals for legislation that could substantially intensify the regulation of the financial services industry are expected to be introduced in the United States Congress and in state legislatures. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also frequently adopt changes to their regulations. Substantial regulatory and legislative initiatives, including a comprehensive overhaul of the regulatory system in the United States are possible in the years ahead. We are unable to predict whether any of these initiatives will succeed, which form they will take, or whether any additional changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. Any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our Controls and Procedures May Fail or be Circumvented. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could result in fraud, operational or other losses that adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Fraud risks could include fraud by employees, vendors, customers or anyone we or our customers do business or come in contact with. The Holding Company Relies On Dividends From Integra Bank For Most Of Its Revenue. Our holding company is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from Integra Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. Federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the holding company. Also, a holding company’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the event Integra Bank is unable to pay dividends to the holding company, the holding company may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on its common stock. The inability to receive dividends from Integra Bank could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our 2008 net loss has the consequence of not allowing, without the prior approval of the OCC, Integra Bank to pay dividends to the parent company at present. The liquidity section of this document within Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations provides details on our plans to fund the parent’s operations throughout 2009. Potential Acquisitions may Disrupt Our Business and Dilute Shareholder Value. We seek merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar, have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: • Potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; • Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; • Difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; • Potential disruption to our business; • Potential diversion of our management’s time and attention; • Changes in the national economy or in the markets in which we do business that reduce the anticipated benefits resulting from an acquisition; • The possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; and • Difficulty in estimating the value of the target company. We evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, if we fail to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We May Not Be Able to Attract and Retain Skilled People. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our local markets, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. 15 Table of Contents Our Information Systems May Experience an Interruption or Breach in Security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems, including risks to data integrity. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We Continually Encounter Technological Change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 