ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are the material risks and uncertainties that we believe are relevant to us. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. These are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of, focused on, or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Any forward-looking statements in this report are qualified by reference to these risk factors. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” for an explanation of forward-looking statements. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS If We Continue to Suffer Significant Losses, It May Be Difficult to Continue in Operation. We recorded a net loss to common shareholders of $194,981 in 2009, and $110,875 in 2008, for a two year total of $305,856. Further significant losses will make it difficult for us to continue in operation. Our losses have largely resulted from loan and investment impairments. During 2009 and 2008, we recorded total provisions for loan losses of $179,152 and other than temporary losses on investments of $32,096. While our losses also included a charge off of goodwill of $122,824, and charges to establish an allowance against the realization of our deferred tax asset of $104,144, these latter charges would not have been required had we not incurred the losses on loans and investments. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 75% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial, agricultural, construction and commercial real estate loans. These types of loans are typically larger than residential real estate and consumer loans, which made up the remaining 25% of our loan portfolio. Because the portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and industrial, agricultural, construction and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans can lead to a significant increase in non-performing loans. Increases in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We May Not Successfully Execute Our Plan to Return to Profitability. We are executing a plan to return to profitability on a long-term basis by stabilizing and then reducing our level of non-performing assets, enhancing our capital and liquidity, and increasing the operating income of our core community banking franchise. We are in the process of selling multiple clusters of branches and loans to help us achieve our priorities. While we expect to reach agreements for these divestiture transactions, they must not materially reduce our liquidity, we must agree on other terms with prospective purchasers and the transactions must be approved by regulators. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in completing sufficient divestiture transactions that will permit us to reach our regulatory capital targets. We May Not Succeed in Our Efforts to Maintain Regulatory Capital at Desired Levels. Integra Bank has agreed with the OCC to develop a plan to increase its total capital ratio to at least 11.5% and its tier 1 leverage ratio to 8% by March 31, 2010. We plan to increase regulatory capital and to reduce our total assets through divestitures of branch offices and sales of loans. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in these efforts. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we can raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 9 The decline in the market prices of financial stocks in general, and our stock in particular, since January 1, 2009, could make it more expensive for us to raise capital in the public or private markets. In many situations, our Board of Directors has the authority, without any vote of our shareholders, to issue shares of our authorized but unissued securities, including shares of common stock authorized and unissued under our stock option plans or additional shares of preferred stock. In the future, we may issue additional securities, through public or private offerings, in order to raise additional capital. Any such issuance of common stock at current trading prices would significantly dilute the ownership of our current shareholders because we would have to issue more shares than if we had raised the same amount of capital when our share price was higher. A decline in our performance could adversely impact our stock price and the level of interest in an equity offering making it more difficult or expensive to attract investors’ interest. In the case of a debt offering, it could also result in a higher cost of funds, which could negatively impact our future earnings. If we are not able to maintain Integra Bank’s regulatory capital at levels that are satisfactory to us and our regulators, our regulators could take additional, more stringent, enforcement actions. In addition, declines in Integra Bank’s capital levels could impact its ability to access lower-cost sources of funding that are currently available, such as public funds and brokered deposits. Future earnings and liquidity may be adversely affected. Failure to Comply With Both the Agreement With the OCC and the Memorandum of Understanding With the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business. The Bank is subject to primary supervision and regulation by the OCC, while we are subject to primary supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve. Our good standing with regulators is of fundamental importance to the continuation of our businesses. In May 2009, the Bank entered into a formal written agreement by which the Bank agreed to develop and implement actions to reduce the amount of classified assets and improve earnings. Any material failures to comply with the agreement would likely result in more stringent enforcement actions by the OCC which could damage the reputation of the Bank and have a material adverse effect on our business. In September 2009, we entered into a memorandum of understanding with the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. Pursuant to the memorandum, we made informal commitments to, among other things, use our financial and management resources to assist the Bank in addressing weaknesses identified by the OCC, not pay dividends on outstanding shares or interest or other sums on outstanding trust preferred securities and not incur any additional debt. Any material failures to comply with the agreement would likely result in more stringent enforcement actions by the Federal Reserve which could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Net Interest Income Could Decline. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Net interest income is dependent on both the level of our earning assets and interest spread. The portion of our assets that are non-earning have increased significantly in 2009 and 2008, reducing our net interest income. Further increases in non-earning assets would further reduce net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (1) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (2) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and (3) the average duration of our earning assets. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Our Allowance for Loan Losses May be Insufficient. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense. This reserve represents our best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in our judgment is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects our ongoing evaluation of various factors, including growth of the portfolio, an analysis of individual credits, adverse situations that could affect a borrower’s ability to repay, prior and current loss experience, the results of regulatory examinations, and current economic conditions. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers and guarantors, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Our non-performing assets increased $76,603 to $246,898 in 2009. Any further significant increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our annual provision for 2009 was $113,368, $24,233 more than our net charge-offs of $89,135. Our Profitability Depends Significantly on Local Economic Conditions and Trends. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the specific local markets in which we operate. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services primarily to customers in Southern Indiana, Southern and Central Illinois, as well as in the Chicago area, Western, Central and Northern Kentucky and Southwest Ohio. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 10 Current Market Developments May Adversely Affect our Industry, Business, Results of Operations. At the time of filing this report, the United States, as well as the global economy, appears to be emerging from a deep and prolonged recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many companies are in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. The current slow economy is evidenced by the continued negative outlook and sentiment, market disruptions, slow growth rates, declines in housing prices, values of commercial real estate, and increases in the consumer price index, in part driven by higher energy and food prices and by employment concerns. Dramatic declines in the housing market since 2007, with lower home prices and increased foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to securities issued by government-sponsored entities, credit default swaps and other derivative securities, in turn have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have ceased to provide funding to even the most credit-worthy borrowers or to other financial institutions. The resulting lack of available credit and lack of confidence in the financial markets could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our access to capital. In particular, we face the following risks in connection with these events: · Further declines in the housing market and the increased volatility of the stock market may adversely affect consumer confidence and may cause adverse changes in loan payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates. · The processes we use to estimate probable losses and impairment of assets, including investment securities, may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. · Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future charge-offs. · Additional losses and declines in financial performance in the banking industry could negatively impact the value of our trust-preferred securities portfolio and result in additional other-than-temporary impairment. · A decline in consumer confidence could also result in withdrawal of deposit funds by consumers, negatively impacting our liquidity. · Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events. · We may be required to pay higher FDIC premiums because of the increased deposit coverage and the closure of other financial institutions could deplete the insurance fund of the FDIC. As each of the above conditions continues to exist or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition. There Can Be No Assurance That Recent Legislative and Regulatory Initiatives to Address Difficult Market and Economic Conditions will Stabilize the United States Banking System and the Enactment of These Initiatives May Significantly Affect our Financial Condition, Results of Operations, Liquidity or Stock Price. In 2008 and continuing through 2009, governments, regulators and central banks in the United States and worldwide have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence; however, asset values have continued to decline and access to liquidity continues to be very limited. 11 The EESA authorizes the Treasury Department to, among other things, purchase up to $700,000,000 of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions and their holding companies. The purpose of EESA is to restore confidence and stability to the United States banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. Under the CPP, the Treasury Department is purchasing equity securities from participating institutions. For more information regarding our participation in the CPP, see the discussion under the caption “Participation in Capital Purchase Program” in “Item 1—Business” of this report. The EESA also increased federal deposit insurance on most deposit accounts from $100 to $250. This increase is in place until the end of 2013. The FDIC announced an extension of the Transaction Account Guarantee program, which provides unlimited insurance coverage on non-interest bearing transaction accounts, as well as transaction accounts bearing an interest rate no higher than 0.5%. Financial institutions may opt out of this program. We did not opt out and plan to maintain the higher coverage amounts until the expiration date of June 30, 2010. The ARRA, which was signed into law on February 17, 2009, includes a wide array of programs intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health and education needs. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. The EESA and the ARRA have been followed by numerous actions by the Federal Reserve, the United States Congress, the Treasury Department, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime mortgage market meltdown that began in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the United States banking system. The EESA, the ARRA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Because of our Participation in the Capital Purchase Program, We Are Subject to Several Restrictions Including Restrictions on our Ability to Declare or Pay Dividends and Repurchase our Shares as well as Restrictions on Compensation Paid to our Executive Officers. During 2009, we suspended the payment of dividends on the Treasury Preferred Stock. As a result, we cannot pay dividends on our shares of common stock. As a participant in the CPP, we must comply with the executive compensation and corporate governance standards imposed by the ARRA for so long as the Treasury Department holds any securities acquired from us pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement or upon exercise of the Warrant, excluding any period during which the Treasury Department holds only the Warrant. These standards include (but are not limited to) (i) ensuring that incentive compensation plans and arrangements for Senior Executive Officers do not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten our value; (ii) required clawback of any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation paid (or under a legally binding obligation to be paid) to a Senior Executive Officer or any of our 20 next most highly-compensated employees based on materially inaccurate financial statements or other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria; (iii) prohibitions on making golden parachute payments to Senior Executive Officers and our five next most highly-compensated employees, except for payments for services performed or benefits accrued; (iv) prohibitions on paying or accruing any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation with respect to our five most highly-compensated employees or such higher number as the Secretary of the Treasury Department may determine is in the public interest, except for grants of restricted stock that do not fully vest while we participate in the Capital Purchase Program and do not have a value which exceeds one-third of an employee’s total annual compensation; (v) prohibitions on compensation plans that encourage manipulation of reported earnings; (vi) retroactive review of bonuses, retention awards or other compensation that the Treasury Department finds to be inconsistent with the purposes of the Capital Purchase Program or otherwise contrary to the public interest; (vii) required establishment of a company-wide policy regarding “excessive or luxury expenditures”; (viii) inclusion in our proxy statements for annual shareholder meetings of a non-binding “say on pay” shareholder vote on the compensation of executives; and (ix) agreement not to claim a deduction, for federal income tax purposes, for compensation paid to any of the Senior Executive Officers in excess of $500,000 per year. If We are Unable to Redeem the Treasury Preferred Stock After Five Years, the Cost of This Capital to Us Will Increase Substantially. If we do not redeem the Treasury Preferred Stock prior to February 27, 2014, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum to 9.0% per annum. Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Treasury Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on our liquidity. 12 The Treasury Preferred Stock Impacts Net Income Available to Holders of our Common Stock and Earnings Per Share of our Common Stock, and the Exercise of the Warrant We Issued to the Treasury Department Would Be Dilutive to Holders of our Common Stock. While the additional capital we raised through our participation in the Treasury Department’s Capital Purchase Program provides further funding to our business and we believe has improved investor perceptions with regard to our financial position, it has increased our equity and the number of actual and diluted outstanding shares of common stock as well as our preferred dividend requirements. The dividends declared and the accretion of discount on the Treasury Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to holders of our common stock and our earnings per share. The Treasury Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the Warrant we issued to the Treasury Department in conjunction with the sale to the Treasury Department of the Treasury Preferred Stock is exercised. Although the Treasury Department has agreed not to vote any of the common stock it receives upon exercise of the Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the Warrant or of any common stock acquired upon exercise of the Warrant is not bound by this restriction. We Are Not Paying Cash Dividends on our Common and Preferred Stock and Are Deferring Interest Payments on the Junior Subordinated Debentures that Relate to our Trust Preferred Securities, and We Are Restricted in our Ability to Resume Such Payments. The Failure to Resume Paying Dividends and Distributions on our Securities May Adversely Affect Us. We historically paid cash dividends on our common stock before we suspended them in September 2009. Subsequently, we also suspended cash dividends on the Treasury Preferred Stock and began deferring interest payments on the junior subordinated notes relating to our trust preferred securities. Deferring interest payments on the junior subordinated notes will result in a deferral of distributions on our trust preferred securities. Future payment of cash dividends on our common stock will be subject to the prior payment of all unpaid dividends on the Treasury Preferred Stock and all deferred distributions on our trust preferred securities. If we miss six quarterly dividend payments on the Treasury Preferred Stock, whether or not consecutive, the Treasury Department will have the right to appoint two directors to our board of directors until all accrued but unpaid dividends have been paid. Dividends on the Treasury Preferred Stock and deferred distributions on our trust preferred securities are cumulative and therefore unpaid dividends and distributions will accrue and compound on each subsequent payment date. In the event we become subject to any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of affairs, holders of the trust preferred securities and then holders of the preferred stock will be entitled to receive the liquidation amounts they are entitled to plus the amount of any accrued and unpaid distributions and dividends, before any distribution to the holders of common stock. We Operate in a Highly Competitive Industry and Market Area. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional, and community banks within the various markets in which we operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. Additionally, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Some of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. Local or privately held community banking organizations in certain markets may price or structure their products in such a way that it makes it difficult for us to compete in those markets in a way that allows us to meet our profitability or credit goals. Any competitor may choose to offer pricing on loans and deposits that we think is irrational and choose to not compete with. Competitors may also be willing to extend credit without obtaining covenants or collateral and by offering weaker loan structures than we are willing to accept. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: · The ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships; · The ability to expand our market position; · The scope, relevance and pricing of products and services; · Our reputation with consumers who reside in the markets we serve; · The rate at which we introduce new products and services; 13 · Customer satisfaction; and · Industry and general economic trends. If we fail to perform in any of these areas, our competitive position and ability to retain market share or grow would be weakened, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We Are Subject to Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision and Face Legal Risks. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not creditors or shareholders. These regulations affect several areas, including our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, and requirements to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to our customers. Congress and federal agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation of statutes, regulations or policies could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies, or the agreements with our regulators could result in more severe enforcement sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. Additionally, the number of regulations we must comply with and the financial resources required to comply with those regulations has continually increased. The cost of complying with these regulations makes it more difficult to remain competitive. Proposals for legislation that could substantially intensify the regulation of the financial services industry are under consideration in the United States Congress and in state legislatures. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also frequently adopt changes to their regulations. Substantial regulatory and legislative initiatives, including a comprehensive overhaul of the regulatory system in the United States are possible in the years ahead. We are unable to predict whether any of these initiatives will succeed, which form they will take, or whether any additional changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. Any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Controls and Procedures May Fail or be Circumvented. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could result in fraud, operational or other losses that adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Fraud risks could include fraud by employees, vendors, customers or anyone we or our customers do business or come in contact with. The Holding Company Cannot Rely On Dividends From Integra Bank. Our holding company is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. Historically, it has received substantially all of its revenue from dividends from Integra Bank. Federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the holding company. Also, a holding company’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the event Integra Bank is unable to pay dividends to the holding company, when needed, the holding company may not be able to service debt or pay its obligations, including dividends on the Treasury Preferred Stock. The inability to receive dividends from Integra Bank could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our recent losses have had the consequence of not allowing Integra Bank to pay dividends to the parent company without prior regulatory approval. We May Not Be Able to Attract and Retain Skilled People. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our local markets, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. 14 Our Information Systems May Experience an Interruption or Breach in Security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems, including risks to data integrity. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We Continually Encounter Technological Change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. We Are Subject to the Risk of Additional Impairment Charges Relating to Our Securities Portfolio. Our investment securities portfolio is our second largest earning asset. The value of our investment portfolio has been adversely affected by the unfavorable conditions of the capital markets in general as well as declines in values of the securities we hold. We have taken an aggregate of $21,484 in charges against earnings since January 1, 2009 for impairments to the value of pooled collateralized debt obligations that we have concluded were "other than temporary." The value of this segment is particularly sensitive to adverse developments affecting the banking industry and the financial condition or performance of the issuing banks – factors that we have no control over and as to which we may receive no advance warning, as was the case in the second quarter for one of these securities. Although we believe we have appropriately valued our securities portfolio, we cannot assure you that there will not be additional material impairment charges which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Possible Restrictions on Bank Overdraft Programs Could Significantly Reduce our Deposit Service Charge Income. On November 12, 2009, the Federal Reserve Board announced final rules that prohibit financial institutions from charging consumers fees for paying overdrafts on automated teller machine (ATM) and one-time debit card transactions. The new rules require consumers to consent, or opt in, to the overdraft service for these two types of transactions before fees can be charged. We anticipate these new rules could significantly impact our non-sufficient funds and overdraft income the last two quarters of 2010 because of the required implementation dates of July 1 for new accounts and August 15 for existing accounts. A team is currently in place ensuring our systems are ready to meet the new rules. In addition, this team is working on a communication plan for existing accounts, which will educate our customers on the various overdraft options. Beyond this regulatory change, a bill has been introduced to the House which could place further restrictions on overdraft charges. If this bill or one similar to it is passed, our service charge income could be reduced even further. 15 We May Not Be Able to Return our Stock Price to a Level Necessary to Be Listed on the NASDAQ Stock Exchange. We received a letter from The Nasdaq Stock Market Inc. ("Nasdaq") on December 14, 2009, indicating that we no longer met the requirement under Rule 5450(a)(1) (the "Bid Price Rule") because the closing bid price per share of our common stock has been below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days. The letter stated that we have until June 14, 2010, to regain compliance by maintaining a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. Nasdaq will provide us written confirmation of compliance with Rule 5450(a)(1) if this condition is met. Should we not regain compliance with the Bid Price Rule prior to the expiration of the grace period, we will receive written notification from Nasdaq that our securities are subject to delisting. Alternatively, we may be eligible for an additional grace period if we meet the initial listing standards, with the exception of bid price, for The Nasdaq Capital Market. We will need to submit an application to transfer our securities from The Nasdaq Global Market to The Nasdaq Capital Market. If the application is approved, Nasdaq will notify us that we have been granted an additional 180 calendar day grace period. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 