Item 1A. Risk Factors This report on Form 10-K includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this Form 10-K, including, without limitation, statements contained in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” located elsewhere in this report regarding our financial position, our business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations, future sales and industry conditions, are forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. In addition to important factors described elsewhere in this report, we caution current and potential investors that the following important risk factors, among others, sometimes have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause such results during fiscal 2008, and beyond, to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Intervoice. • Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period, and this may cause our stock price to decline. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and we expect further fluctuations in the future. Given these fluctuations, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results are not necessarily meaningful or an accurate indicator of our future performance. As a result, our results of operations may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in the future, which could cause our stock price to decline. Factors that contribute to fluctuations in our operating results and can preclude our ability to accurately forecast our results include the following: • variability in the time periods necessary to complete projects and achieve project milestones in order to recognize revenue, which may be influenced by volume, size, timing, contractual terms of new licenses and renewals of existing licenses and cash basis revenues; • the components of our revenue that are deferred, including our subscription-based hosted solutions and that portion of our software licenses attributable to support and maintenance; • volume, timing and fulfillment of customer orders, particularly with respect to large orders (sales of approximately $2.0 million or more), some of which are completed in the same quarter in which they are ordered and some of which are completed over several quarters, and fluctuations in demand for our products and services; • our ability to complete orders from our solutions backlog, subject to timing changes requested by our customers, and projects accounted for on a percentage of completion basis, including estimates based on a variety of factors and subject to revision; • the use of low pricing to win important customers, and the possible recognition of loss contingencies for certain projects that we estimate will be delivered at a negative gross margin; • the lengthy sales cycle for our products, which typically involve comprehensive solutions that may require detailed customer evaluations; • the performance of our international business, which accounts for a significant portion of our consolidated revenues, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • the mix of products we sell and services we offer and whether our products are sold through our direct sales force or through an intermediary; • introduction of new products, product upgrades or updates by us or our competitors, and any resulting customer delays in purchasing products; • any increased price sensitivity by our customers, particularly due to increased competition including open source or free software; 12 Table of Contents • periodic difficult economic conditions, particularly affecting the technology industry, as well as economic uncertainties; • higher than anticipated costs related to fixed-price contracts with our customers; • our ability to effectively manage our operating expense levels; • timing of significant marketing and sales promotions, and expenses incurred pursuing new product or market opportunities; • stock-based compensation expense, which we began recognizing for our stock-based compensation plans in the first quarter of fiscal 2007; • costs and charges related to certain events, including Sarbanes-Oxley compliance efforts, matters relating to our Audit Committee investigation and litigation; • the structure, timing and integration of acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and related disruption of our current business; • factors that lead to substantial declines in estimated values of long-lived assets below their carrying value; and • changes in generally accepted accounting principles. Due to these and other factors, our revenue and operating results are difficult to forecast and are prone to fluctuate, which may cause a decline in our stock price. Our expense levels are based in significant part on our expectations of future revenue, and we may not be able to reduce our expenses quickly to respond to a shortfall in projected revenue. Therefore, our failure to meet revenue expectations could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. See the discussion entitled “Sales” in Item 7 of Part II for a discussion of our system for estimating sales and tracking sales trends in our business. • We are subject to potential and pending lawsuits and other claims. We are subject to certain potential and pending lawsuits and other claims discussed in Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings” of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Furthermore, we may become subject to claims, including claims by the government, or other adverse consequences arising from the findings of the Audit Committee investigation and related SEC investigation discussed in Item 3. We and certain of our current and former officers and non-officer employees are currently responding to or have responded to SEC subpoenas to produce documents and provide testimony about the transactions that were the subject of the investigation. Any adverse judgment, penalty or settlement related to any lawsuit or other such claim could have consequences that would be material to our financial position or results of operations. We may be required to indemnify certain of our current and former directors and officers under existing arrangements in connection with the defense, or advancement of defense-related expenses, we are currently providing to certain individuals in connection with the class action lawsuit and the SEC investigation. Our insurance policies provide coverage for losses and expenses incurred by us and our current and former directors and officers in connection with claims made under the federal securities laws. These policies, however, exclude losses and expenses related to the Barrie class action lawsuit discussed in Item 3 or to other litigation based on claims that are substantially the same as the claims in the Barrie class action and contain other customary provisions to limit or exclude coverage for certain losses and expenses. • We face intense competition based on product capabilities and we experience ever increasing demands from our actual and prospective customers for our products to be compatible with a variety of rapidly proliferating computing, telephony and computer networking technologies and standards. Our success is dependent, to a large degree, on our effectiveness in allocating resources to developing and improving products compatible with those technologies, standards and functionalities that ultimately become widely accepted by our current and prospective customers. Our success is also dependent, to a large degree, on our ability to implement arrangements with vendors of complementary product offerings so that we can provide our current and prospective customers greater functionality. Our principal competitors include Avaya, Nortel, Nuance Communications, Comverse Technology, Unisys and Alcatel/Lucent. Many of our 13 Table of Contents competitors have greater financial, technological and marketing resources than we have, as well as greater name recognition. Although we have committed substantial resources to enhance our existing products and to develop and market new products, there is no assurance we will be successful. In addition, it is possible that new entrants to the market and strategic acquisitions and partnerships between existing companies could increase the competition in the markets in which we participate. An increase in such competition could materially adversely affect our ability to sell our products, thereby adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. • We may not be successful in selling and implementing our products and services in the face of the new, standards-based market. Intervoice has historically provided complete, bundled hardware and software solutions using internally developed components to address our customers’ total business needs. The markets for our products have required a shift to the development of products and services based on an open, standards-based architecture such as the J2EE and Microsoft’s®. NET environments utilizing VoiceXML and/or SALT standards. Such an open, standards-based approach allows customers to independently purchase and combine hardware components, standardized software modules, and customization, installation and integration services from individual vendors deemed to offer the best value in the particular class of product or service. In such an environment, we believe we may sell less hardware and fewer bundled systems and may become increasingly dependent on our development and sale of software application packages, customized software and consulting and integration services. This shift places new challenges on us to hire and retain the mix of personnel necessary to respond to this business environment, to adapt to the changing expense structure that the new environment may tend to foster, to respond to potentially different competitors, and to increase sales of services, customized software and application packages to offset reduced sales of hardware and bundled solutions. Failure to develop, enhance, acquire and introduce new products and services to respond to continually changing market conditions or customer requirements, or lack of customer acceptance of our products or services will materially adversely affect the value of our intellectual property, barriers to entry to our business, customer retention, gross margins, and the results of operations and financial condition. • We may not be able to retain our customer base, and, in particular, our more significant customers. Our success is heavily dependent on our ability to retain our significant customers. The loss of one of our significant customers could negatively impact our operating results. Our installed base of customers generally is not contractually obligated to place further solutions orders with us or to extend their services contracts with us at the expiration of their current contracts. • We will be harmed if we lose key business and technical personnel. We rely upon the services of a relatively small number of key technical, project management and senior management personnel, most of whom do not have employment contracts. If we were to lose any of our key personnel, replacing them could be difficult and costly. If we were unable to successfully and promptly replace such personnel, our business could be materially harmed. • Our reliance on significant vendor relationships could result in significant expense or an inability to serve our customers if we lose these relationships. Although we generally use standard parts and components in our products, some of our hardware components are available only from a small number of vendors. Likewise, we license speech recognition technology primarily from Nuance Communications, Inc., the dominant vendor for this technology. As we continue to migrate to open, standards-based systems, we will become increasingly dependent on our component suppliers and software vendors. To date, we have been able to obtain adequate supplies of needed components and licenses in a timely manner, and we expect to continue to be able to do so. Nevertheless, if our significant vendors are unable to supply components or licenses at current levels, we may not be able to obtain these items from another source or at historical prices. In such instances, we would be unable to provide products and services to our customers or generate historical operating margins, and our business and operating results would suffer. • If third parties assert claims that our products or services infringe on their technology and related intellectual property rights, whether the claims are made directly against us or against our customers, we could incur substantial costs. We believe software and technology companies, including us and others 14 Table of Contents in our industry, increasingly may become subject to infringement claims. Such claims may require us to enter into costly license agreements or result in even more costly litigation. To the extent a licensing arrangement is required, the arrangement may not be available at all, or, if available, may be very expensive or even prohibitively expensive. As with any legal proceeding, there is no guarantee we will prevail in any litigation instituted against us asserting infringement of intellectual property rights. To the extent we suffer an adverse judgment, we might have to pay substantial damages, discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, repurchase infringing products from our customers in accordance with indemnity obligations, expend significant resources to acquire non-infringing alternatives, and/or obtain licenses to the intellectual property that has been infringed upon. As with licensing arrangements, non-infringing substitute technologies may not be available and, if available, may be very expensive, or even prohibitively expensive, to implement. Accordingly, for all of the foregoing reasons, a claim of infringement could ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. • We are exposed to risks related to our international operations that could increase our costs and hurt our business. Our products are currently sold in more than 75 countries. Our international sales were 35% and 45% of total sales for the fiscal years ended February 28, 2007 and 2006, respectively. International sales, personnel and property are subject to certain risks, including: • terrorism; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • ability to collect on accounts receivable; • the difficulty and expense of maintaining foreign offices and distribution channels; • tariffs and other barriers to trade; • greater difficulty in protecting and enforcing intellectual property rights; • general economic and political conditions in each country, including nationalization of customers or channel partners; • loss of revenue, property and equipment from expropriation; • import and export licensing requirements; and • additional expenses and risks inherent in conducting operations in geographically distant locations, including risks arising from differences in language and cultural approaches to the conduct of business. • Our inability to meet contracted performance targets could subject us to significant penalties. Many of our contracts, particularly for hosted solutions, foreign contracts and contracts with telecommunication companies, include provisions for the assessment of damages for delayed project completion and/or for our failure to achieve certain minimum service levels. We have had to pay damages in the past and may have to pay additional damages in the future. Any such future damages could be significant. • Increasing consolidation in the telecommunications and financial industries could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The majority of our largest customers are in the telecommunications and financial industries. These industries are undergoing significant consolidation as a result of merger and acquisition activity. This activity could result in a decrease in the number of customers purchasing our products and/or in delayed purchases of our products by customers that are reviewing their strategic alternatives in light of a pending merger or acquisition. If these results occur, our revenues and profitability could decline or our loss could increase. • Our products are complex, and software defects could reduce our revenues and expose us to litigation. The software products we offer are complex and may contain errors or defects, even after extensive testing and quality control, particularly in early versions. Furthermore, because our products increasingly are designed around an open standards based architecture incorporating elements developed by third parties, such errors or defects may be outside of our direct ability to control or correct. Any defects or errors could potentially result in loss of revenues, product returns or order cancellations, and could potentially hinder market 15 Table of Contents acceptance of our products and harm our reputation. Accordingly, any defects or errors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our customer license agreements typically contain provisions to limit our product warranty obligations and exposure to potential liability claims. • We have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions, which could dilute our existing shareholders and could involve substantial acquisition risks. As part of our business strategy, we have in the past acquired, and expect to continue to acquire or make investments in, other businesses and technologies. We may issue equity securities for future acquisitions, which would dilute our existing stockholders, and we may incur debt in connection with future acquisitions, which may include covenants or other restrictions that hinder our ability to operate our business. Furthermore, our prior acquisitions required substantial integration and management efforts. Acquisitions can involve a number of risks, including: • difficulty in transitioning and integrating the operations, facilities and personnel of the acquired businesses, including different and complex order processing, support and accounting and financial reporting systems; • loss of key management, sales, research and development and other key employees of the acquired company; • difficulty in integrating acquired products into our product portfolio, including engineering, sales and marketing integration; • impairment of relationships with partners, suppliers and customers; • difficulty in implementing and standardizing company-wide financial, accounting, billing, information and other systems and the internal controls surrounding those systems and processes; • disruption of our ongoing operations and distraction of management and other employees; • difficulty in incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and technology; • unanticipated expenses and delays in completing acquired development projects and technology integration; • difficulty in management of geographically remote operations in the United States and internationally; • delay of sales to customers pending resolution of product integration between our existing and our newly acquired products; and • difficulty entering new markets or businesses in which we have limited experience. As a result of these and other risks, we may not realize anticipated benefits from our acquisitions. Any failure to achieve these benefits or failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies could result in a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. • Our stock price has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Our stock price historically has been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. Various factors contribute to the volatility of our stock price, including business developments (such as new product introductions and acquisitions or dispositions), litigation developments, quarterly variations in our financial results, our ability to meet investors’ expectations, and general economic and market conditions. In addition, third-party announcements by our partners and competitors may contribute to our stock price volatility. Certain types of investors may choose not to invest in stocks with this level of stock price volatility. Fluctuations in our stock price could cause increased risk of shareholder litigation, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. • We are exposed to risks related to our channel program that could decrease our revenues and hurt our business. Although we principally sell our products and services through our direct sales force, a significant amount of our sales are made through intermediaries such as distributors, system integrators and other strategic channel partners. We expect the percentage of sales through intermediaries to increase as 16 Table of Contents we continue to focus our sales efforts through the channel and other partners. We anticipate future revenue growth to depend in large part on our success in expanding relationships, and establishing new relationships, with intermediaries. These intermediaries may sell their own products or other vendors’ products that compete with our products, and may compete with our own direct sales force in certain sales opportunities. While we have instituted programs designed to increase sales of our products through intermediaries, certain intermediaries may give greater priority to products of other suppliers, including competitors. Our ability to grow sales through intermediaries depends on our investment in appropriate financial incentives, support and sales tools for intermediaries, while effectively alleviating conflict with our own sales force. Failure to effect this strategy appropriately may result in certain intermediaries choosing to cease or reduce the sales of our products, resulting in a material adverse change in our business, results of operations and financial condition. • We implemented a new company-wide ERP system during the third quarter of fiscal 2007. During the third quarter of fiscal 2007, we completed the implementation of a new, company-wide ERP system. Our new system affects all facets of our business, including our ability to quote, receive and process orders, track inventory and work in process, ship and bill completed orders, process and apply cash receipts from our customers and summarize and report the results of our operations. If we encounter problems in the operation of our new system, our ability to conduct our daily operations in an efficient, effective and properly controlled manner could be compromised, and our operating results could suffer. In addition, any such operational problems could cause us to expend significant time and other resources in an effort to resolve such problems, and this diversion of management and staff time could further adversely affect our ability to serve our customers and sustain our normal operations. • Unanticipated changes in our effective tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability or increase our loss. We are a U.S. based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. We are generally required to account for taxes in each jurisdiction in which we operate, including making assumptions, interpretations and judgments with respect to the applicable tax requirements. Our provision for income taxes is calculated based on a mix of earnings, statutory rates, and enacted tax rules by jurisdiction, including transfer pricing. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. It is possible that these positions may be challenged which may have a significant impact on our effective tax rate, which could affect our results of operations and financial condition. • Failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and our stock price. A failure to maintain adequate internal control procedures as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may preclude our management’s ability to conclude that we have effective internal controls over our financial reporting. These internal controls are also required for us to produce management financial information, make determinations on revenue recognition and other material accounting issues, and prevent financial fraud. If we are unable to produce reliable financial reports, make appropriate determinations on revenue recognition and material accounting policies or prevent fraud, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. • We have sustained operating losses in the past, and may incur additional losses in the future which may require us to raise additional capital on unfavorable terms. We cannot be certain that our revenue will grow or that we will achieve or maintain profitable operations in the future. If we are unable to return to and maintain profitability, the market price for our stock may decline, perhaps substantially. If we continue to have operating losses, we may be required to raise additional capital to maintain or grow our operations. Such additional capital may only be available at unfavorable terms that could be dilutive to existing shareholders, have a high interest rate, contain restrictive covenants, or contain other unfavorable terms. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 Table of Contents 