ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The Company’s business strategy includes the continuation of growth plans, and its financial condition and results of operations could be affected if its business strategies are not effectively executed. The Company intends to continue pursuing a growth strategy for its business through acquisitions and de novo branching. The Company’s prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties occasionally encountered by financial services companies in growth stages, which may include the following: · Maintaining loan quality; · Maintaining adequate management personnel and information systems to oversee such growth; and · Maintaining adequate control and compliance functions. 15 Operating Results. There is no assurance that existing offices or future offices will maintain or achieve deposit levels, loan balances or other operating results necessary to avoid losses or produce profits. The Company’s growth and de novo branching strategy necessarily entails growth in overhead expenses as it routinely adds new offices and staff. The Company’s historical results may not be indicative of future results or results that may be achieved as the company continue to increase the number and concentration of its branch offices. Development of Offices. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they have been in operation for at least a year or more. Accordingly, the Company’s de novo branches may be expected to negatively impact its earnings during this period of time until the branches reach certain economies of scale. Expansion into New Markets. Much of the Company’s recent growth has been focused in the highly competitive Nashville, Knoxville and Clarksville metropolitan markets. The customer demographics and financial services offerings in these markets are unlike those found in the East Tennessee markets that the Company has historically served. In the Nashville, Knoxville and Clarksville markets the Company faces competition from a wide array of financial institutions. The Company’s expansion into these new markets may be impacted if it is unable to meet customer demands or compete effectively with the financial institutions operating in these markets. Regulatory and Economic Factors. The Company’s growth and expansion plans may be adversely affected by a number of regulatory and economic developments or other events. Failure to obtain required regulatory approvals, changes in laws and regulations or other regulatory developments and changes in prevailing economic conditions or other unanticipated events may prevent or adversely affect the Company’s continued growth and expansion. Failure to successfully address the issues identified above could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations, and could adversely affect the Company’s ability to successfully implement its business strategy. The Company could sustain losses if its asset quality declines. The Company’s earnings are affected by its ability to properly originate, underwrite and service loans. The Company could sustain losses if it incorrectly assesses the creditworthiness of its borrowers or fails to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner. Problems with asset quality could cause the Company’s interest income and net interest margin to decrease and its provisions for loan losses to increase, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce the Company’s earnings. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectibility of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and takes a charge against earnings with respect to specific loans when their ultimate collectibility is considered questionable. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require the Bank to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, the Company’s earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. 16 Liquidity needs could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company relies on dividends from the Bank as its primary source of funds. The primary source of funds of the Bank are customer deposits and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and international instability. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, returns available to customers on alternative investments and general economic conditions. Accordingly, the Company may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include Federal Home Loan Bank advances and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks. While the Company believes that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity demands. The Company may be required to slow or discontinue loan growth, capital expenditures or other investments or liquidate assets should such sources not be adequate. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect the Company’s profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and the Company experiences competition in each of its markets from many other financial institutions. The Company competes with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other community banks and super-regional and national financial institutions that operate offices in the Company’s primary market areas and elsewhere. Additionally, the Company faces competition from de novo community banks, including those with senior management who were previously affiliated with other local or regional banks or those controlled by investor groups with strong local business and community ties. These de novo community banks may offer higher deposit rates or lower cost loans in an effort to attract the Company’s customers, and may attempt to hire the Company’s management and employees. The Company competes with these other financial institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, the Company has to attract its customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. The Company expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. The Company’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete with an array of financial institutions in its market areas. The Company may face risks with respect to future expansion. From time to time the Company may engage in additional de novo branch expansion as well as the acquisition of other financial institutions or parts of those institutions. The Company may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: · the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; · inaccuracies in the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution; · the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; · the Company’s ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to its existing shareholders; 17 · the diversion of the Company’s management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combining businesses; · entry into new markets where the Company lacks experience; · the introduction of new products and services into the Company’s business; · the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on the Company’s results of operations; and · the risk of loss of key employees and customers. The Company may incur substantial costs to expand. There can be no assurance that integration efforts for any future mergers or acquisitions will be successful. Also, the Company may issue equity securities, including common stock and securities convertible into shares of the Company’s common stock in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to the Company’s shareholders. There is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, the Company’s integration efforts will be successful or the Company, after giving effect to the acquisition, will achieve profits comparable to or better than its historical experience. The Company’s business is subject to the success of the local economies where it operates. The Company’s success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in its market areas. If the communities in which the Company operates do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, the Company’s business may not succeed. Adverse economic conditions in the Company’s specific market areas could reduce its growth rate, affect the ability of its customers to repay their loans to the Company and generally affect its financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, the Company cannot give any assurance that it will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in its primary market areas if they do occur. Any adverse market or economic conditions in the state of Tennessee may increase the risk that the Company’s borrowers will be unable to timely make their loan payments. In addition, the market value of the real estate securing loans as collateral could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 77.85% of the Company’s loans held for investment were secured by real estate. Of this amount, approximately 33.83% were commercial real estate loans, 21.26% were residential real estate loans and 39.90% were construction and development loans. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in the state of Tennessee could adversely affect the value of the Company’s assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rates may affect the Company’s level of interest income, the primary component of its gross revenue, as well as the level of its interest expense. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Accordingly, changes in interest rates could decrease the Company’s net interest income. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect the Company’s ability to originate real estate loans, the value of the Company’s assets and the Company’s ability to realize gains from the sale of its assets, all of which ultimately affects the Company’s earnings. The Company relies heavily on the services of key personnel. The Company depends substantially on the strategies and management services of R. Stan Puckett, its Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Although the Company has entered into an employment agreement with him, the loss of the services of Mr. Puckett could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company is also dependent on certain other key officers who have important customer relationships or are instrumental to its operations. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to the Company’s business and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 The Company believes that its future results will also depend in part upon its attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management and sales and marketing personnel, particularly in those areas where the Company may open new branches. Competition for such personnel is intense, and the Company cannot assure you that it will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. The Company is subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict its activities. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies including the Board of Governors of the FRB, the FDIC and the Tennessee Department of Financial Institutions. The Company’s regulatory compliance is costly and restricts certain of its activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. The Company is also subject to capitalization guidelines established by its regulators, which require it to maintain adequate capital to support its growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and the Company cannot predict the effects of these changes on its business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, the Company’s cost of compliance could adversely affect its ability to operate profitably. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq that are now applicable to the Company, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. As a result, the Company has experienced, and may continue to experience, greater compliance costs. The Company’s recent results may not be indicative of its future results. The Company may not be able to sustain its historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow its business at all. In addition, the Company’s recent growth may distort some of its historical financial ratios and statistics. In the future, the Company may not have the benefit of several recently favorable factors, such as a strong residential mortgage market, or the ability to find suitable expansion opportunities. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit the Company’s ability to expand its market presence. The Company is subject to Tennessee anti-takeover statutes and certain charter provisions which could decrease its chances of being acquired even if the acquisition is in the Company’s shareholders’ best interests. As a Tennessee corporation, the Company is subject to various legislative acts which impose restrictions on and require compliance with procedures designed to protect shareholders against unfair or coercive mergers and acquisitions. These statutes may delay or prevent offers to acquire the Company and increase the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if the acquisition of the Company would be in its shareholders’ best interests. The Company’s amended and restated charter also contains provisions which may make it difficult for another entity to acquire it without the approval of a majority of the disinterested directors on its board of directors. The amount of common stock owned by, and other compensation arrangements with, the Company’s officers and directors may make it more difficult to obtain shareholder approval of potential takeovers that they oppose. As of February 28, 2007, directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 12.28% of the Company’s common stock. Agreements with the Company’s senior management also provide for significant payments under certain circumstances following a change in control. These compensation arrangements, together with the common stock and option ownership of the Company’s board of directors and management, could make it difficult or expensive to obtain majority support for shareholder proposals or potential acquisition proposals of us that the Company’s directors and officers oppose. The Company’s continued pace of growth may require it to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. 19 The Company is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. While the Company’s capital resources will satisfy its capital requirements for the foreseeable future, the Company may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support its continued growth. The Company’s ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside its control, and on its financial performance. Accordingly, the Company cannot assure its shareholders that it will be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to it. If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, its ability to further expand its operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. The success and growth of the Company’s business will depend on its ability to adapt to technological changes. The banking industry and the ability to deliver financial services is becoming more dependent on technological advancement, such as the ability to process loan applications over the Internet, accept electronic signatures, provide process status updates instantly and on-line banking capabilities and other customer expected conveniences that are cost efficient to the Company’s business processes. As these technologies are improved in the future, the Company may, in order to remain competitive, be required to make significant capital expenditures. Even though the Company’s common stock is currently traded on The Nasdaq Global Select Market, the trading volume in its common stock has been thin and the sale of substantial amounts of the Company’s common stock in the public market could depress the price of its common stock. The Company cannot say with any certainty when a more active and liquid trading market for its common stock will develop or be sustained. Because of this, the Company’s shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. The Company cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of its common stock in the market, or availability of shares of its common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company, therefore, can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of its common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of its common stock to decline or impair its ability to raise capital through sales of its common stock. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to its performance. General market price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. The Company may issue additional common stock or other equity securities in the future which could dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. In order to maintain its capital at desired levels or required regulatory levels, or to fund future growth, the Company’s board of directors may decide from time to time to issue additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing rights to acquire shares of its common stock. The sale of these shares may significantly dilute the Company’s shareholders ownership interest as a shareholder and the per share book value of its common stock. New investors in the future may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to its current shareholders which may adversely impact its current shareholders. The Company’s ability to declare and pay dividends is limited by law and it may be unable to pay future dividends. The Company derives its income solely from dividends on the shares of common stock of the Bank. The Bank’s ability to declare and pay dividends is limited by its obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general restrictions on its dividends that are applicable to banks that are regulated by the FDIC and the Department of Financial Institutions. In addition, the FRB may impose restrictions on the Company’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock. As a result, the Company cannot assure its shareholders that it will declare or pay dividends on shares of its common stock in the future. 20 Holders of the Company’s junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of its common shareholders. The Company has supported its continued growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from special purpose trusts and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2006, the Company had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures totaling $13.4 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of these trusts are conditionally guaranteed by the Company. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures the Company issued to the trusts are senior to its shares of common stock. As a result, the Company must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on its common stock and, in the event of its bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on its common stock. The Company has the right to defer distributions on its junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on its common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 