Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K, including the following risk factors, before investing in any of our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also impair our business or adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time by other future reports and statements that we file with the SEC. Our business is cyclical and can be negatively impacted by prolonged economic downturns or tightening in the credit markets that reduce the level of construction activity and demand for our products. Demand for our concrete reinforcing products is cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in the economy and in the availability of financing in the credit markets. Our products are sold primarily to manufacturers of concrete products for the construction industry and used for a broad range of nonresidential and residential construction applications. Demand in these markets is driven by the level of construction activity, which tends to be correlated with conditions in the general economy as well as other factors beyond our control. The tightening in the credit markets that occurred during fiscal 2009 and persisted into 7 Table of Contents 2011 could continue to unfavorably impact demand for our products by reducing the availability of financing to our customers and the construction industry as a whole. Future prolonged periods of economic weakness or reduced availability of financing could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our operations are subject to seasonal fluctuations that may impact our cash flow. Our shipments are generally lower in the first and second quarters primarily due to the reduced level of construction activity resulting from winter weather conditions together with customer plant shutdowns associated with holidays. As a result, our cash flow from operations may vary from quarter to quarter due to these seasonal factors. Demand for our products is highly variable and difficult to forecast due to our minimal backlog and the unanticipated changes that can occur in customer order patterns or inventory levels. Demand for our products is highly variable. The short lead times for customer orders and minimal backlog that characterize our business make it difficult to forecast the future level of demand for our products. In some cases, unanticipated downturns in demand have been exacerbated by inventory reduction measures pursued by our customers. The combination of these factors may cause significant fluctuations in our sales, profitability and cash flows. Our customers may be adversely affected by the continued negative macroeconomic conditions and tightening in the credit markets. Current negative macroeconomic conditions and the tightening in the credit markets could limit the ability of our customers to fund their financing requirements, thereby reducing their purchasing volume with us. Further, the reduction in the availability of credit may increase the risk of customers defaulting on their payment obligations to us. The continuation or occurrence of these events could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Demand for our products could be significantly impacted by the timing in resolving a new federal transportation funding authorization and the magnitude of the infrastructure-related funding that is provided for requiring the use of our products. The previous federal transportation funding authorization, SAFETEA-LU, expired in September 2009 and has subsequently been extended through a series of interim measures, the most recent of which expires in March 2012. The additional federal funding provided for under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (“ARRA”) has not had a significant impact on the demand for our products as a high proportion of the projects funded have been for pavement resurfacing and repairs, which do not require the use of our products, and any favorable impact has been offset by reduced spending at the state and local government level due to fiscal constraints. Failure to enact a new multi-year federal funding authorization in a timely manner could have a negative impact on demand for our products. Our financial results can be negatively impacted by the volatility in the cost and availability of our primary raw material, hot-rolled carbon steel wire rod. The primary raw material used to manufacture our products is hot-rolled carbon steel wire rod, which we purchase from both domestic and foreign suppliers. We do not use derivative commodity instruments to hedge our exposure to changes in the price of wire rod as such instruments are currently unavailable in the financial markets. Beginning in fiscal 2004, a tightening of supply in the rod market together with fluctuations in the raw material costs of rod producers resulted in increased price volatility which has continued through fiscal 2011. In response to the increased pricing volatility, wire rod producers have resorted to increasing the frequency of price adjustments, typically on a monthly basis as well as unilaterally changing the terms of prior commitments. Although changes in our wire rod costs and selling prices tend to be correlated, depending upon market conditions, there may be periods during which we are unable to fully recover increased rod costs through higher selling prices, which would reduce gross profit and cash flow from operations. Additionally, should raw material costs decline, our financial results may be negatively impacted if the selling prices for our products decrease to an even greater degree and to the extent that we are consuming higher cost material from inventory, as we experienced during certain periods of fiscal 2009 and 2010. Our financial results can also be significantly impacted if raw material supplies are inadequate to satisfy our purchasing requirements. Trade actions by domestic wire rod producers against offshore suppliers can also have a substantial impact on the availability and cost of imported wire rod. The imposition of anti-dumping or countervailing duty margins by the U.S. Department of Commerce (the “DOC”) against exporting countries can have the effect of reducing or eliminating their activity in the domestic market, which is of increasing significance in view of the reductions in domestic wire rod production capacity that have occurred in recent years. If we were unable to obtain adequate and timely delivery of our raw material requirements, we may be unable to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or operate our manufacturing facilities in an efficient manner, which could result in lost sales and higher operating costs. 8 Table of Contents We may not be successful in fully realizing the anticipated synergies from the Ivy Acquisition, which could have a negative impact on our financial results. Although we essentially completed the integration of the Ivy Acquisition during fiscal 2011 and are realizing a substantial portion of the anticipated synergies, there could be delays, disruptions or other unexpected challenges arise in connection with the completion of the remaining reconfiguration activities at certain of the Ivy facilities. If these delays, disruptions or other challenges occur and not be effectively resolved, we could fail to realize the remainder of the anticipated synergies from the Ivy Acquisition which may have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Foreign competition could adversely impact our financial results. Our PC strand business is subject to offshore import competition on an ongoing basis in that in most market environments, domestic production capacity is insufficient to satisfy domestic demand. If we are unable to purchase raw materials and achieve manufacturing costs that are competitive with those of foreign producers, or if the margin and return requirements of foreign producers are substantially lower, our market share and profit margins could be negatively impacted. In response to irrationally-priced import competition from offshore PC strand suppliers, we have pursued trade cases when necessary as a means of ensuring that foreign producers were complying with the applicable trade laws and regulations. In 2003, we, together with a coalition of domestic producers of PC strand, obtained a favorable determination from the DOC in response to the petitions we had filed alleging that imports of PC strand from Brazil, India, Korea, Mexico and Thailand were being “dumped” or sold in the U.S. at a price that was lower than fair value and had injured the domestic PC strand industry. The DOC imposed anti-dumping duties ranging from 12% up to 119%, which had the effect of limiting the participation of these countries in the domestic market. In 2010, we, together with a coalition of domestic producers of PC strand, obtained favorable determinations from the DOC in response to the petitions we had filed alleging that imports of PC strand from China were being “dumped” or sold in the U.S. at a price that was lower than fair value and that subsidies were being provided to Chinese PC strand producers by the Chinese government, both of which had injured the domestic PC strand industry. The DOC imposed final countervailing duty margins ranging from 9% to 46% and anti-dumping margins ranging from 43% to 194%, which had the effect of limiting the continued participation of Chinese producers in the domestic market. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to unexpected equipment failures, operational interruptions and casualty losses. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to risks that may limit our ability to manufacture products, including unexpected equipment failures and catastrophic losses due to other unanticipated events such as fires, explosions, accidents, adverse weather conditions and transportation interruptions. Any such equipment failures or events can subject us to material plant shutdowns, periods of reduced production or unexpected downtime. Furthermore, the resolution of certain operational interruptions may require significant capital expenditures. Although our insurance coverage could offset the losses or expenditures relating to some of these events, our results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted to the extent that such claims were not covered or only partially covered by our insurance. Our financial results could be adversely impacted by the continued escalation in certain of our operating costs. Our employee benefit costs, particularly our medical and workers’ compensation costs, have increased substantially in recent years and are expected to continue to rise. In March 2010, Congress passed and the President signed The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. This legislation may have a significant impact on health care providers, insurers and others associated with the health care industry. If the implementation of this legislation significantly increases the costs attributable to our self-insured health plans, it may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, higher prices for natural gas, electricity, fuel and consumables increase our manufacturing and distribution costs. Most of our sales are made under terms whereby we incur the fuel costs and surcharges associated with the delivery of products to our customers. Although we have implemented numerous measures to offset the impact of the ongoing escalation in these costs, there can be no assurance that such actions will be effective. If we are unable to pass these additional costs through by raising selling prices, our financial results could be adversely impacted. Our capital resources may not be adequate to provide for our capital investment and maintenance expenditures if we were to experience a substantial downturn in our financial performance. Our operations are capital intensive and require substantial recurring expenditures for the routine maintenance of our equipment and facilities. Although we expect to finance our business requirements through internally generated funds or from borrowings under our $75.0 million revolving credit facility, we cannot provide any assurances these resources will be sufficient to support our business. A material adverse change in our operations or financial condition could limit our ability to borrow funds under our credit facility, which could further adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition. Any significant future acquisitions could require additional financing from external sources that may not be available on favorable terms, which could adversely impact our operations, growth plans, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital investments and operating costs. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to the protection of the environment that could result in substantially increased capital investments and operating costs. These laws and regulations, which are constantly evolving, are becoming increasingly stringent and the ultimate impact of compliance is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Our stock price can be volatile, often in connection with matters beyond our control. Equity markets in the U.S. have been increasingly volatile in recent years. During fiscal 2011, our common stock traded as high as $15.10 and as low as $8.22. There are numerous factors that could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, several of which are beyond our control, including: variations in our quarterly and annual operating results; changes in our business outlook; changes in market valuations of companies in our industry; changes in the expectations for nonresidential and residential construction; and announcements by us, our competitors or industry participants that may be perceived to impact us or our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 