Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Company’s Business The Company’s business is seasonal and cyclical where prolonged economic declines could have a material adverse effect on its financial performance. Demand for most of the Company’s products is both seasonal and cyclical and sensitive to general economic conditions. The Company’s concrete reinforcing products are used for a broad range of nonresidential, infrastructure and residential construction applications. Demand in these markets is driven by the level of construction activity, which generally is highest in the third and fourth quarters of the Company’s fiscal year when weather conditions are more conducive. As a result of the seasonal nature of the construction industry, sales and profitability generally are lower in the first and second fiscal quarters. The Company’s industrial wire products are used in the manufacture of tires and for a broad range of other industrial applications where the seasonal changes are not as pronounced as they are for concrete reinforcing products. However, demand for these products tends to be cyclical based on changes in general economic conditions, sales of new vehicles as well as replacement tires, and the overall level of manufacturing activity. A prolonged slowdown in the economy or weakening conditions in any of the markets that the Company serves could have a material adverse impact on its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Fluctuations in the cost and availability of the Company’s primary raw material from domestic and foreign suppliers could have a material adverse effect on its financial performance due to reduced spreads between wire rod costs and selling prices, and increased production costs associated with the underutilization of its facilities should the supply of wire rod be insufficient to satisfy its requirements. The primary raw material used to manufacture the Company’s products is hot-rolled carbon steel wire rod, which is purchased from both domestic and foreign suppliers. During 2005 and 2004, imported wire rod represented approximately 50% and 52%, respectively, of the Company’s total wire rod purchases. While favorable market conditions have enabled the Company to raise its selling prices to recover the escalation in wire rod cost that it experienced in 2004, there can be no assurance that such favorable conditions will continue or that future cost increases will be recovered. Additionally, should rod costs decline significantly in the future, the Company’s financial results may be negatively impacted due to unfavorable inventory revaluation adjustments and reduced spreads if the selling prices for its products were to decrease by an even greater extent. 6 During 2004, the Company lost production time at certain facilities because it was unable to obtain sufficient quantities of wire rod due to unanticipated delays in foreign deliveries and the opportunistic policies of domestic suppliers. Work stoppages during 2005 at two wire rod production facilities in North America have caused the supply of wire rod to tighten materially and prices to rise. In addition, during November 2005 five domestic producers of wire rod filed antidumping petitions against offshore wire rod producers that represented 54% of the imported wire rod supply for the year preceding the filing of the petitions. While the Company believes it has made adequate sourcing arrangements to maintain normal production schedules ,the recurrence of wire rod shortages could result in lost production time at the Company’s facilities and adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and financial conditions. Unexpected equipment failures or operational interruptions may lead to curtailments in production or shutdowns. If the Company were to experience operational interruptions for any reason, it would be negatively impacted by increased production costs as well as reduced sales and earnings. In addition to equipment failures, the Company’s manufacturing facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or adverse weather conditions. The Company’s manufacturing processes depend on the efficient operation of critical equipment, which may be out of service on occasion because of unanticipated failures. In the future, any such equipment failures could subject the Company to material plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production or unexpected down-time. Furthermore, any operational interruptions may require significant capital expenditures to remedy, which could have a negative effect on the Company’s profitability and cash flows. Although the Company maintains business interruption insurance, any recoveries for such claims could potentially be insufficient to offset the lost revenues or increased costs that may be experienced. In addition to the revenue losses, which may be recoverable under the policy, business disruptions of a repeated or long-term nature could result in a loss of customers which could adversely affect future sales, profitability and cash flow. The Company’s production costs may increase should commodity prices continue to rise because it does not hedge its exposure to price fluctuations for its raw materials. The Company does not use derivative commodity instruments to hedge its exposures to changes in commodity prices, including prices of hot-rolled carbon steel wire rod. Historically, the Company has typically negotiated quantities and pricing on a quarterly basis for both domestic and foreign steel wire rod purchases to manage its exposure to price fluctuations and to ensure adequate availability of material consistent with its requirements. However, beginning in 2004, a tightening of supply in the rod market together with fluctuations in the raw material costs of rod producers has resulted in increased price volatility which could continue in the future. In some instances, wire rod producers have resorted to increasing the frequency of price adjustments, typically on a monthly basis as well as unilaterally changing the terms of prior commitments. Because the Company generally does not hedge against price fluctuations as hedging vehicles are currently unavailable in the financial markets, it may be forced to purchase wire rod at higher than anticipated prices. Although changes in its wire rod costs and selling prices tend to be correlated, depending upon market conditions, there may be periods during which the Company is unable to fully recover increased rod costs through higher selling prices, which would reduce gross profit and cash flow from operations. The Company’s variable rate indebtedness subjects it to interest rate risk, which could cause its annual debt service obligations to increase significantly. All of the Company’s debt obligations under its senior secured credit facility are at variable rates of interest which exposes it to interest rate risk. Because the Company has not entered into interest rate hedging instruments relating to current or future borrowings on its credit facility, if interest rates rise, interest expense on its variable rate indebtedness would increase, decreasing earnings and cash flow. The Company could have difficulty meeting its funding requirements for debt service, capital investment and maintenance expenditures if there was a substantial downturn in its financial performance. As of October 1, 2005, the Company had approximately $11.9 million of long-term debt outstanding under its senior secured credit facility. The Company’s operations are capital intensive and require substantial recurring expenditures for the routine maintenance of its equipment and facilities. Although the Company expects to finance its business requirements through internally generated funds or from borrowings under its senior secured credit facility, it cannot provide any assurances this will be the case. In the event of a material adverse change in the Company’s financial condition or business operations, the Company may not be able to access funds under its senior secured credit facility. In the event that the Company cannot meet its funding obligations through internally generated funds or from borrowings on its credit facility and cannot access other sources of capital, it’s financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely impacted. 7 The Company’s ability and the ability of some of its subsidiaries to engage in some business transactions may be limited by the terms of its debt. The Company’s senior secured credit facility contains a number of financial covenants requiring it to meet certain financial ratios and financial condition tests, as well as other covenants that restrict or limit its ability to: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase capital stock; • allow its subsidiaries to issue new stock to any person other than itself or any of its other subsidiaries; • make investments; • incur or permit to exist liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • guarantee the debt of other entities, including joint ventures; • merge or consolidate or otherwise combine with another company; and • transfer or sell its assets. The Company’s ability to borrow under its credit facility will depend upon its ability to comply with these covenants and borrowing base requirements. The Company’s ability to meet these covenants and requirements may be affected by events beyond its control which may result in the inability to meet these obligations. The Company’s failure to comply with these covenants and requirements could result in an event of default under its credit facility that, if not cured or waived, could terminate its ability to borrow further, permit acceleration of the relevant debt and permit foreclosure on any collateral granted as security under its credit facility. Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. The Company’s businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment that could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs or investments. These laws are constantly evolving and becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with existing laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. The Company’s production and earnings could be reduced by strikes or work stoppages by its unionized employees. As of October 1, 2005, the Company employed 655 people, of which approximately 57 were union members (approximately 53 employees at its Wilmington, Delaware facility and 4 employees at its Jacksonville, Florida facility). The Company has collective bargaining agreements in place with each union, which expire in November 2006 for the Wilmington facility and April 2008 for the Jacksonville facility. Although the Company believes that its current relations with the labor unions and its unionized employees are satisfactory, any strikes or work stoppages organized by the unions, particularly the union representing certain employees at its Wilmington facility, could reduce production and negatively affect its profitability. Although the Company has a contingency plan to continue serving customers should it experience a disruption of production at any facility, there can be no assurances that a strike or work stoppage would not adversely impact the Company’s operating costs and reduce its earnings. The Company’s operating costs and earnings could be negatively impacted by the continued escalation in medical costs. Although the Company has implemented a number of measures to offset the impact of the ongoing escalation in medical costs, there can be no assurance that such actions will be effective going forward. Continued increases in medical costs could potentially be substantial enough to significantly increase the Company’s operating costs and reduce its earnings. Risks Related to Its Common Stock The Company may cease paying dividends in the future if its business environment, financial condition or operating results materially decline or if its cash needs significantly increase. In November 2000, as a result of economic pressure in the Company’s industry and repeated technical defaults on the Company’s previous secured credit facility, the Company suspended its quarterly cash dividend in connection with the terms of a covenant waiver with its previous lenders. In June 2005, the Company amended its current credit agreement to increase the 8 permitted amount of dividend payments to $3,500,000 in the aggregate in any fiscal year after fiscal 2005. In July 2005, as a result of an improved economic environment and corresponding improvement in the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, the Company resumed its quarterly cash dividend of $0.06 per share. While the Company intends to pay regular quarterly cash dividends for the foreseeable future, the declaration and payment of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of the Company’s board of directors after taking into account various factors, including general business conditions and the Company’s financial condition, operating results, cash needs, and expansion plans. In addition, the Company’s ability to pay future dividends is subject to compliance with the dividend restrictions and financial covenant limitations in the Company’s Credit Agreement, as amended. There can be no assurances that the amount and frequency of current dividends will continue for any period of time. If the Company suspends dividends in the future, the value of the Company’s common stock would likely decrease and investors would be required to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize value or income, if any, on their investment. Anti-takeover provisions in the Company’s organizational documents and North Carolina law make any change in control more difficult. This could have an adverse affect on the price of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, may discourage bids at a premium over the market price of its common stock and may have an adverse affect on the market price of its common stock as well as the voting and other rights of the holders of its common stock. These provisions include: • the division of its Board of Directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; • prohibiting its shareholders from calling a special meeting of shareholders; • the ability to issue additional shares of its common stock or preferred stock without shareholder approval; • the existence of a rights agreement, or “poison pill,” that results in the dilution of the value of its common stock held by a potential acquirer and forces any acquirer to negotiate the potential acquisition of the Company with its Board of Directors; • prohibiting its shareholders from amending its articles of incorporation or bylaws except with 66 2/3% shareholder approval; and • advance notice requirements for raising matters of business or making nominations at shareholder meetings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 