Item 1A. Risk Factors. Described below are certain risks that our management believes are applicable to our business and the industry in which we operate. There may be additional risks that are not presently material or known. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the events described below occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or access to the capital markets could be materially adversely affected. The following risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and from results predicted by forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf related to conditions or events that we anticipate may occur in the future. The following risks should not be construed as an exhaustive list of all factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. All forward-looking statements made by 12 Table of Contents us or on our behalf are qualified by the risks described below. Economic conditions in the U.S. and key international markets, a decline in consumer discretionary spending or other conditions may materially adversely impact our operating results. We sell certain products and services that consumers may view as discretionary items rather than necessities. As a result, our results of operations tend to be more sensitive to changes in macroeconomic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Challenging macroeconomic conditions also impact our customers' ability to obtain consumer credit in a timely manner, if at all. Other factors, including consumer confidence, employment levels, interest rates, tax rates, consumer debt levels, and fuel and energy costs could reduce consumer spending or change consumer purchasing habits. In the past two fiscal years, many of these factors adversely affected consumer spending and, consequently, our business and results of operations. A slowdown in the U.S. or global economy, or an uncertain economic outlook, could materially adversely affect consumer spending habits and our operating results in the future. The domestic and international political situation also affects consumer confidence. The threat or outbreak of domestic or international terrorism or other hostilities could lead to a decrease in consumer spending. Any of these events and factors could cause a decrease in revenue or an increase in inventory markdowns or certain operating expenses, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. If we do not anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our operating results could materially suffer. Our business depends, in large part, on our ability to successfully introduce new products, services and technologies to consumers, the frequency of such introductions, the level of consumer acceptance, and the related impact on the demand for existing products, services and technologies. Failure to accurately predict constantly changing consumer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and other lifestyle decisions, or to effectively address consumer concerns, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and reputation with our customers. Our results of operations could materially deteriorate if we fail to attract, develop and retain qualified employees. Our performance is dependent on attracting and retaining qualified employees who are able to meet the wants and needs of our customers. We believe our competitive advantage is providing unique end-to-end solutions for each individual customer, which requires us to have highly trained and engaged employees. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, develop and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including store, service and administrative personnel. The turnover rate in the retail industry is high, and qualified individuals of the requisite caliber and number needed to fill these positions may be in short supply in some areas. Our inability to recruit a sufficient number of qualified individuals in the future may delay planned openings of new stores or affect the speed with which we expand initiatives related to the connected world, our exclusive brands and our international operations. Delayed store openings, significant increases in employee turnover rates or significant increases in labor costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face strong competition from traditional store-based retailers, Internet businesses, our vendors and other forms of retail commerce, which could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. The retail business is highly competitive. We compete for customers, employees, locations, products and other important aspects of our business with many other local, regional, national and international retailers, as well as our vendors who offer their products and services direct to the consumer. Pressure from our competitors, some of which have a greater market presence and financial resources than we do, could require us to reduce our prices or increase our costs of doing business. As a result of this competition, we may experience lower revenue and/or higher operating costs, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. The failure to control our costs could have a material adverse impact on our profitability. Consumer spending remains uncertain, which makes it more challenging for us to maintain or grow our operating income rate. As a result, we must continue to control our 13 Table of Contents expense structure. Failure to manage our labor and benefit rates, advertising and marketing expenses, other store expenses or indirect spending could delay or prevent us from achieving increased profitability or otherwise have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Our liquidity may be materially adversely affected by continuing constraints in the capital markets. We must have sufficient sources of liquidity to fund our working capital requirements, service our outstanding indebtedness and finance investment opportunities. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations or we may not be able to pursue promising business opportunities. The principal sources of our liquidity are funds generated from operating activities, available cash and cash equivalents, and borrowings under credit facilities and other debt financings. For the past several quarters, global financial markets have experienced diminished liquidity, constrained credit availability and volatility in securities prices. If our sources of liquidity do not satisfy our requirements, we may have to seek additional financing. The future availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors, such as economic and market conditions, the availability of credit and our credit ratings, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of us or the retail industry generally. If required, we may not be able to obtain additional financing, on favorable terms, or at all. Changes in our credit ratings may limit our access to capital markets and materially increase our borrowing costs. In fiscal 2010, Moody's Investors Service, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd. and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services all maintained their ratings and outlook of our debt securities at above investment grade level. However, future downgrades to our long-term credit ratings and outlook could negatively impact our access to the capital markets and the perception of us by lenders and other third parties. Our credit ratings are based upon information furnished by us or obtained by a rating agency from its own sources and are subject to revision, suspension or withdrawal by one or more rating agencies at any time. Rating agencies may review the ratings assigned to us due to developments that are beyond our control, including as a result of new standards requiring the agencies to re-assess rating practices and methodologies. Any downgrade to our debt securities will result in higher interest costs for certain of our credit facilities and other debt financings, and could result in higher interest costs on future financings. Further, in the event of such a downgrade, we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if necessary, on favorable terms, or at all. Our growth is dependent on the success of our strategies. Our growth is dependent on our ability to identify, develop and execute our strategies. Because we have outlined an ambitious growth and strategic development platform on which to expand our business, our failure to properly deploy and utilize capital and other resources may adversely affect our initiatives designed to assist our customers connect to a digital lifestyle, while expanding our footprint globally. While we believe our customer centricity and connected world initiatives, as well as the pursuit of international growth opportunities, will enable us to grow our business, misjudgments or flaws in our execution could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth strategy includes expanding our business by opening stores in both existing markets and new markets. Our future growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to build, buy or lease new stores. We compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. Local land use, local zoning issues, environmental regulations and other regulations applicable to the types of stores we desire to construct may impact our ability to find suitable locations, and also influence the cost of building, buying and leasing our stores. We also may have difficulty negotiating real estate purchase agreements and leases on acceptable terms. Failure to manage effectively these and other similar factors will affect our ability to build, buy and lease new stores, which may have a material adverse effect on our future profitability. We seek to expand our business in existing markets in order to attain a greater overall market share. Because our stores typically draw customers from their local areas, a new store may draw customers away from our nearby existing stores and may cause customer traffic and comparable store sales performance to decline at those existing stores. We also intend to open stores in new markets. The risks associated with entering a new market include difficulties 14 Table of Contents in attracting customers where there is a lack of customer familiarity with our brands, our lack of familiarity with local customer preferences, seasonal differences in the market and our ability to obtain the necessary governmental approvals. In addition, entry into new markets may bring us into competition with new competitors or with existing competitors with a large, established market presence. We cannot ensure that our new stores will be profitably deployed. As a result, our future profitability may be materially adversely affected. Failure in our pursuit or execution of new business ventures, strategic alliances and acquisitions could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our growth strategy also includes expansion via new business ventures, strategic alliances and acquisitions. Assessing a potential growth opportunity involves extensive due diligence. However, the amount of information we can obtain about a potential growth opportunity may be limited, and we can give no assurance that new business ventures, strategic alliances and acquisitions will positively affect our financial performance or will perform as planned. Integrating new businesses, stores and concepts can be a difficult task. Cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we introduce new retail concepts may result in customers in those markets being less receptive than originally anticipated. These types of transactions may divert our capital and our management's attention from other business issues and opportunities. Further, implementing new strategic alliances or business ventures may also impair our relationships with our vendors or strategic partners. We may not be able to successfully assimilate or integrate companies that we acquire, including their personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general operating procedures. We may also encounter challenges in achieving appropriate internal control over financial reporting in connection with the integration of an acquired company. If we fail to assimilate or integrate acquired companies successfully, our business, reputation and operating results could suffer materially. Likewise, our failure to integrate and manage acquired companies successfully may lead to impairment of the associated goodwill and intangible asset balances. Failure to protect the integrity, security and use of our customers' information and media could expose us to litigation and materially damage our standing with our customers. The use of individually identifiable data by our business and our business associates is regulated at the state, federal and international levels. Increasing costs associated with information security — such as increased investment in technology, the costs of compliance with consumer protection laws and costs resulting from consumer fraud — could cause our business and results of operations to suffer materially. Additionally, the success of our online operations depends upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including the use of cashless payments. While we have taken significant steps to protect customer and confidential information, there can be no assurance that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will prevent the compromise of our customer transaction processing capabilities and personal data. If any such compromise of our security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operating results and financial condition. Any such compromise may materially increase the costs we incur to protect against such information security breaches and could subject us to additional legal risk. Risks associated with the vendors from whom our products are sourced could materially adversely affect our revenue and gross profit. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors. Our 20 largest suppliers account for just under 60% of the merchandise we purchase. If any of our key vendors fails to supply us with products or continue to develop new technologies, we may not be able to meet the demands of our customers and our revenue could materially decline. We require all of our vendors to comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required vendor standards of conduct. Our ability to find qualified vendors who meet our standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced from outside the U.S. Political or financial instability, merchandise quality issues, product safety concerns, trade restrictions, work stoppages, tariffs, foreign currency exchange rates, transportation capacity and costs, 15 Table of Contents inflation, civil unrest, outbreaks of pandemics and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other issues affecting our vendors could materially adversely affect our revenue and gross profit. Our exclusive brands products are subject to several additional product, supply chain and legal risks, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Sales of our exclusive brands, which include Insignia, Dynex, Init, Geek Squad and Rocketfish branded products, represent a growing component of our revenue. Most of these products are manufactured under contract by vendors based in southeastern Asia. This arrangement exposes us to the following additional potential risks, which could materially adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results: •We have greater exposure and responsibility to the consumer for warranty replacements and repairs as a result of product defects, as we generally have no recourse to contracted manufacturers for such warranty liabilities; •We may be subject to regulatory compliance and/or product liability claims relating to personal injury, death or property damage caused by such products, some of which may require us to take significant actions such as product recalls; •We may experience disruptions in the manufacturing or the logistics within the manufacturing environment in southeastern Asia caused by inconsistent and unanticipated order patterns or if we are unable to develop long-term relationships with key factories; •We are subject to developing and often-changing labor and environmental laws for the manufacture of products in foreign countries and we may be unable to conform to new rules or interpretations in a timely manner; •We may be subject to claims by technology owners if we inadvertently infringe upon their patents or other intellectual property rights, or if we fail to pay royalties owed on our products; and •We may be unable to obtain or adequately protect our patents and other intellectual property rights on our products, the new features of our products and/or our processes. We are subject to certain statutory, regulatory and legal developments which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our statutory, regulatory and legal environment exposes us to complex compliance and litigation risks that could materially adversely affect our operations and financial results. The most significant compliance and litigation risks we face are: •The difficulty of complying with sometimes conflicting statutes and regulations in local, national or international jurisdictions; •The impact of proposed, new or changing statutes and regulations including, but not limited to, financial reform, environmental, labor reform, health care reform and/or other as yet unknown legislation, that could affect how we operate and execute our strategies as well as alter our expense structure; •The impact of changes in tax laws (or interpretations thereof by courts and taxing authorities) and accounting standards; and •The impact of litigation trends, including class action lawsuits involving consumers and shareholders, and labor and employment matters. Defending against lawsuits and other proceedings may involve significant expense and divert management's attention and resources from other matters. Changes to the National Labor Relations Act or other labor-related statutes or regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business. The Employee Free Choice Act ("EFCA") is pending before the U.S. Congress. The EFCA, also referred to as the "card check" bill, if passed in its current or a similar form, or changes to other labor-related statutes or regulations, could significantly change the nature of labor relations in the U.S. Specifically, EFCA would impact how union elections and contract negotiations are conducted. At February 27, 2010, none of our U.S. stores had employees represented by labor unions or working under collective bargaining agreements. Passage of the pending or similar legislation, or changes in other labor-related statutes or regulations, could make it easier for unions to be formed, and employers of newly unionized employees may face mandatory, binding arbitration of labor scheduling, costs and standards, which could increase our 16 Table of Contents costs of doing business and materially adversely affect our results of operations. Additional legislation or rulemaking relating to environmental matters, including but not limited to, energy emissions, could have a material adverse impact on our business. Environmental legislation or rulemaking efforts could impose unexpected costs or impact us more directly than other companies due to our operations as a global consumer electronics retailer with over 4,000 stores and 87 distribution centers worldwide. Specifically, legislation that aims to control and reduce energy emissions has been considered by the U.S. Congress as well as governing bodies internationally, particularly in Europe. Should such legislation pass, we anticipate that energy costs within our operations would increase such as the expense to power our stores. In addition, rulemaking is being considered that could impose higher safety and compliance standards on transporting certain goods. Any significant rulemaking could increase the cost to transport our goods. Passage of any of these forms of legislation or rulemaking could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Regulatory developments in the U.S. could impact the promotional financing offers available to our credit card customers and have a material adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. We offer promotional financing in the U.S. through credit cards issued by third party banks that manage and directly extend credit to our customers. The cardholders can receive low- or no-interest promotional financing on qualifying purchases. Promotional financing credit card sales accounted for 17%, 18% and 16% of our Domestic segment's revenue in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Recently enacted legislative and regulatory changes that focus on a variety of credit related matters have had no material adverse impact on our operations to date. However, if future legislative or regulatory restrictions or prohibitions arise that affect our ability to offer promotional financing and we are unable to adjust our operations in a timely manner, our revenue and profitability may be materially adversely affected. Changes to our credit card agreements could adversely impact our ability to facilitate the provision of consumer credit to our customers and could materially adversely impact our results of operations. We have agreements with third party banks for the issuance of promotional financing and customer loyalty credit cards bearing the Best Buy brand. Under the agreements, the banks manage and directly extend credit to our customers. The banks are the sole owner of the accounts receivable generated under the credit card programs and absorb losses associated with non-payment by the cardholders and fraudulent usage of the accounts. We earn revenue from fees the banks pay to us based on the number of credit card accounts activated and card usage. The banks also reimburse us for certain costs associated with our credit card programs. Financing fees are paid by us to the banks and are variable based on certain factors such as the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"), charge volume and/or the types of promotional financing offers. Given the continuing changes in the economic and regulatory environment for banks, as well as a continuing period of consumer credit delinquencies, banks continue to re-evaluate their lending practices and terms, including but not limited to the levels at which consumer credit is granted. If any of our credit card programs ended prematurely or the terms and provisions, or interpretations thereof, were substantially modified, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted. Our International activities subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. We have a presence in various foreign countries including Belgium, Bermuda, Canada, China, France, Germany, Honk Kong, India, Ireland, Japan, Luxembourg, Mexico, the Republic of Mauritius, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Turkey, Turks and Caicos, and the U.K. During fiscal 2010, our International segment's operations generated 25% of our revenue. Our growth strategy includes expansion into new or existing international markets, and we expect that our International segment's operations will account for a larger portion of 17 Table of Contents our revenue in the future. Our future operating results in these countries and in other countries or regions throughout the world where we may operate in the future could be materially adversely affected by a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control including political conditions, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints and foreign currency regulations. In addition, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our International segment's operations, and could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they were to occur again, could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Other factors which may materially adversely impact our International segment's operations include foreign trade, monetary, tax and fiscal policies both of the U.S. and of other countries; laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations; and maintaining facilities in countries which have historically been less stable than the U.S. Additional risks inherent in our International segment's operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the U.S. The various risks inherent in doing business in the U.S. generally also exist when doing business outside of the U.S., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. We rely heavily on our management information systems for inventory management, distribution and other functions. If our systems fail to perform these functions adequately or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our management information systems. We rely heavily on our management information systems to manage our order entry, order fulfillment, pricing, point-of-sale and inventory replenishment processes. The failure of our management information systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in decreased revenue, increased overhead costs and excess or out-of-stock inventory levels, causing our business and results of operations to suffer materially. A disruption in our relationship with Accenture, who helps us manage key elements of our information technology and human resources operations and conducts certain procurement activities, could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have engaged Accenture LLP ("Accenture"), a global management consulting, technology services and outsourcing company, to manage significant portions of our information technology and human resources operations as well as to conduct certain procurement activities. We rely heavily on our management information systems for inventory management, distribution and other functions. We also rely heavily on human resources support to attract, develop and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees. We also use Accenture to provide procurement support to research and purchase certain non-merchandise products and services. Any material disruption in our relationship with Accenture could result in decreased revenue and increased overhead costs, causing our business and results of operations to suffer materially. We are highly dependent on the cash flows and net earnings we generate during our fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the majority of the holiday selling season. Approximately one-third of our revenue and more than one-half of our net earnings are generated in our fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the majority of the holiday shopping season in the U.S., Europe and Canada. Unexpected events or developments such as natural or man-made disasters, product sourcing issues or adverse economic conditions in our fourth quarter could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 18 Table of Contents 