ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We could sustain losses if our asset quality declines further. Our earnings are affected by our ability to properly originate, underwrite and service loans. We could sustain losses if we incorrectly assess the creditworthiness of our borrowers or fail to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner. Recent problems with asset quality have caused, and could continue to cause, our interest income and net interest margin to decrease and our provisions for loan losses to increase, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Further increases in non-performing loans would reduce net interest income below levels that would exist if such loans were performing. Recent negative developments in the financial services industry and U.S. and global credit markets may adversely impact our operations and results. Negative developments in the latter half of 2007 and throughout 2008 in the capital markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing throughout 2009. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, amongst other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like us, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, industry, legislative or regulatory developments may cause us to materially change our existing strategic direction, capital strategies, compensation or operating plans. 17 Table of Contents The enactment of Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 may not be able to stabilize the U.S. financial system or the economy and may significantly affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operation or liquidity. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the EESA. The legislation was the result of a proposal by Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to the U.S. Congress on September 20, 2008 in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed the ARRA in an effort to stimulate the economy and provide for broad infrastructure, energy, health, and education needs. The U.S. Treasury and banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA or ARRA will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA or ARRA to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially affect the registrant’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of the registrant’s common stock. There have been numerous actions undertaken in connection with or following EESA and ARRA by the FRB, Congress, the Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others in efforts to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry that followed the sub-prime mortgage market meltdown which began in late 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency temporary action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to help stabilize the U.S. banking system. EESA, ARRA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our business is subject to the success of the local economies where we operate. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits, residential real estate stability and housing starts in our market areas. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally continue to deteriorate or remain unfavorable, our business may not succeed. Adverse economic conditions in our specific market areas could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. Continued adverse market or economic conditions in the state of Tennessee may increase the risk that our borrowers will be unable to timely make their loan payments. In addition, the market value of the real estate securing loans as collateral has been and may continue to be adversely affected by continued unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 70% of our loans held for investment were secured by real estate. Of this amount, approximately 54% were commercial real estate loans of which 19% were construction and development loans. The remaining 16% were residential real estate loans. We experienced increased payment delinquencies with respect to these loans throughout 2008 which negatively impacted our results of operations and a sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by continuing adverse market or economic conditions in the state of Tennessee could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Continued deterioration in residential real estate construction and development markets could adversely affect our loan portfolio quality and our results of operations. We have a loan concentration to residential real estate contractors and developers. During adverse general economic conditions, such as we believe are now being experienced in residential real estate construction nationwide, borrowers involved in the residential real estate construction and development business may suffer above normal financial strain. As the residential real estate development and construction market in our markets has deteriorated, our borrowers in this segment have begun to experience difficulty repaying their obligations to us. As a result, our loans to these borrowers have deteriorated and may deteriorate further and may result in additional charge-offs negatively impacting our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectibility of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and takes a charge against earnings with respect to specific loans when their ultimate collectibility is considered questionable. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require the bank to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, our earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. Liquidity needs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on dividends from the Bank as our primary source of funds. The primary source of funds of the Bank are customer deposits and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans which may be more difficult in economically challenging environments like those currently being experienced. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and international instability. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, returns available to customers on alternative investments and general economic conditions. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include FHLB advances and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks. While we believe that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity demands. We may be required to slow or discontinue loan growth, capital expenditures or other investments or liquidate assets should such sources not be adequate. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rates may affect our level of interest income, the primary component of our gross revenue, as well as the level of our interest expense. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Accordingly, changes in interest rates could decrease our net interest income. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affects our earnings. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in each of our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other community banks and super-regional and national financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. Additionally, we face competition from de novo community banks, including those with senior management who were previously affiliated with other local or regional banks or those controlled by investor groups with strong local business and community ties. These de novo community banks may offer higher deposit rates or lower cost loans in an effort to attract our customers, and may attempt to hire our management and employees. We compete with these other financial institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete with an array of financial institutions in our market areas. 19 Table of Contents If we continue to experience losses at levels that we experienced during the fourth quarter of 2008 we may need to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. While we believe our capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future, we may at some point, if we continue to experience losses, need to raise additional capital to support or strengthen our capital position. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure our shareholders that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, we may be subject to increased regulatory restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to expand our operations. We rely heavily on the services of key personnel. We depend substantially on the strategies and management services of R. Stan Puckett, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Although we have entered into an employment agreement with him, the loss of the services of Mr. Puckett could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are also dependent on certain other key officers who have important customer relationships or are instrumental to our operations. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management and sales and marketing personnel, particularly in those areas where we may open new branches. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies including the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the Tennessee Department of Financial Institutions. Our regulatory compliance is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq that are applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. As a result, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, greater compliance costs. The amount of common stock owned by, and other compensation arrangements with, our officers and directors may make it more difficult to obtain shareholder approval of potential takeovers that they oppose. As of March 12, 2009, directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 10.85% of our common stock. Agreements with selected members of our senior management also provide for certain payments under various circumstances following a change in control. These compensation arrangements, together with the common stock and option ownership of our board of directors and management, could make it difficult or expensive to obtain majority support for shareholder proposals or potential acquisition proposals. 20 Table of Contents Our long-term business strategy includes the continuation of growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be affected if our long-term business strategies are not effectively executed. Although our primary focus in the near term will be on strengthening our asset quality and organically growing our balance sheet, we intend, over the longer term, to continue pursuing a growth strategy for our business through acquisitions and de novo branching. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties occasionally encountered by financial services companies in growth stages, which may include the following: • Maintaining loan quality; • Maintaining adequate management personnel and information systems to oversee such growth; and, • Maintaining adequate control and compliance functions. Operating Results: There is no assurance that existing offices or future offices will maintain or achieve deposit levels, loan balances or other operating results necessary to avoid losses or produce profits. Our growth and de novo branching strategy necessarily entails growth in overhead expenses as it routinely adds new offices and staff. Our historical results may not be indicative of future results or results that may be achieved as we continue to increase the number and concentration of our branch offices. Development of Offices: There are considerable costs involved in opening branches, and new branches generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they have been in operation for at least a year or more. Accordingly, our de novo branches may be expected to negatively impact our earnings during this period of time until the branches reach certain economies of scale. Expansion into New Markets: Much of our growth over the last three years has been focused in the highly competitive Nashville, Knoxville and Clarksville metropolitan markets. The customer demographics and financial services offerings in these markets are unlike those found in the East Tennessee markets that we have historically served. In the Nashville, Knoxville and Clarksville markets, we face competition from a wide array of financial institutions. Our expansion into these new markets may be impacted if we are unable to meet customer demands or compete effectively with the financial institutions operating in these markets. Regulatory and Economic Factors: Our growth and expansion plans may be adversely affected by a number of regulatory and economic developments or other events. Failure to obtain required regulatory approvals, changes in laws and regulations or other regulatory developments and changes in prevailing economic conditions or other unanticipated events may prevent or adversely affect our continued growth and expansion. Failure to successfully address the issues identified above could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our longer term business strategy. We may face risks with respect to future expansion. From time to time we may engage in additional de novo branch expansion as well as the acquisition of other financial institutions or parts of those institutions. We may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; • inaccuracies in the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; • our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combining businesses; • entry into new markets where we lack experience; • the introduction of new products and services into our business; • the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on our results of operations; and • the risk of loss of key employees and customers. 21 Table of Contents We may incur substantial costs to expand. There can be no assurance that integration efforts for any future mergers or acquisitions will be successful. Also, we may issue equity securities, including common stock and securities convertible into shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our shareholders. There is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, our integration efforts will be successful or we, after giving effect to the acquisition, will achieve profits comparable to or better than our historical experience. We are subject to Tennessee anti-takeover statutes and certain charter provisions which could decrease our chances of being acquired even if the acquisition is in our shareholders’ best interests. As a Tennessee corporation, we are subject to various legislative acts which impose restrictions on and require compliance with procedures designed to protect shareholders against unfair or coercive mergers and acquisitions. These statutes may delay or prevent offers to acquire us and increase the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if the acquisition of us would be in our shareholders’ best interests. Our amended and restated charter also contains provisions which may make it difficult for another entity to acquire us without the approval of a majority of the disinterested directors on our board of directors. The success and growth of our business will depend on our ability to adapt to technological changes. The banking industry and the ability to deliver financial services is becoming more dependent on technological advancement, such as the ability to process loan applications over the Internet, accept electronic signatures, provide process status updates instantly and on-line banking capabilities and other customer expected conveniences that are cost efficient to our business processes. As these technologies are improved in the future, we may, in order to remain competitive, be required to make significant capital expenditures. Even though our common stock is currently traded on The Nasdaq Global Select Market, the trading volume in our common stock has been thin and the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could depress the price of our common stock. We cannot say with any certainty when a more active and liquid trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. Because of this, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or availability of shares of our common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We, therefore, can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. If our stock price continues to trade at a level below book value of the organization, we would evaluate our goodwill balances for impairment, and if the value of our business has declined, we could recognize an impairment charge for our goodwill. We performed an annual goodwill impairment assessment as of December 31, 2008. Based on our analyses, we concluded that the fair value of our reporting unit exceeded our current book value. It is possible that our assumptions and conclusions regarding the valuation of our business could change adversely, which could result in the recognition of impairment for our goodwill. Although any non-cash charges associated with goodwill impairment would impact reported earnings, there would be no impact on the risk based capital ratios of the Company. 22 Table of Contents We may issue additional common stock or other equity securities in the future which could dilute the ownership interest of existing common shareholders. In order to maintain our capital at desired levels or required regulatory levels, or to fund future growth, our board of directors may decide from time to time to issue additional shares of common stock, preferred stock or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing rights to acquire shares of our common stock. The sale of these shares may significantly dilute our shareholders ownership interest as a shareholder and the per share book value of our common stock. New investors in the future may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders which may adversely impact our current shareholders. Our ability to declare and pay dividends is limited by law and by the terms of the Series A preferred stock and we may be unable to pay future dividends. We derive our income solely from dividends on the shares of common stock of the Bank. The Bank’s ability to declare and pay dividends is limited by its obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general restrictions on its dividends that are applicable to banks that are regulated by the FDIC and the Tennessee Department of Financial Institutions. In addition, the FRB and the terms of the Series A preferred stock may impose restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. As a result, we cannot assure our shareholders that we will declare or pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the future. Holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our common and Series A preferred shareholders. We have supported our continued growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from special purpose trusts and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2008, we had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures totaling $88.7 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of these trusts are conditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures we issued to the trusts are senior to our shares of common stock and the Series A preferred stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock or the Series A preferred stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock or Series A preferred stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock or our Series A preferred stock. The Series A preferred stock impacts net income available to our common shareholders and our earnings per share. As long as shares of our Series A preferred stock are outstanding, no dividends may be paid on our common stock unless all dividends on the Series A preferred stock have been paid in full. Additionally, for so long as the U.S. Treasury owns shares of the Series A preferred stock, we are not permitted to pay cash dividends on our common stock in excess of $0.13 per quarter without the U.S. Treasury’s consent. The dividends declared on shares of our Series A preferred stock will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. Additionally, warrants to purchase our common stock issued to the U.S. Treasury, in conjunction with the issuance of the Series A preferred stock, may be dilutive to our earnings per share. The shares of our Series A preferred stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Holders of the Series A preferred stock have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders. The Series A preferred stock that we have issued to the U.S. Treasury is senior to our shares of common stock, and holders of the Series A preferred stock have certain rights and preferences that are senior to holders of our common stock. The Series A preferred stock will rank senior to our common stock and all other equity securities of ours designated as ranking junior to the Series A preferred stock. So long as any shares of the Series A preferred stock remain outstanding, unless all accrued and unpaid dividends on shares of the Series A preferred stock for all prior dividend periods have been paid or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full, no dividend whatsoever shall be paid or declared on our common stock or other junior stock, other than a dividend payable solely in common stock. We and our subsidiaries also may not purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of our common stock or other junior stock unless we have paid in full all accrued dividends on the Series A preferred stock for all prior dividend periods, other than in certain circumstances. Furthermore, the Series A preferred stock is entitled to a liquidation preference over shares of our common stock in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. 23 Table of Contents Holders of the Series A preferred stock may, under certain circumstances, have the right to elect two directors to our board of directors. In the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series A preferred stock for an aggregate of six quarterly dividend periods or more (whether or not consecutive), the authorized number of directors then constituting our board of directors will be increased by two. Holders of the Series A preferred stock, together with the holders of any outstanding parity stock with like voting rights, referred to as voting parity stock, voting as a single class, will be entitled to elect the two additional members of our board of directors, referred to as the preferred stock directors, at the next annual meeting (or at a special meeting called for the purpose of electing the preferred stock directors prior to the next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been paid in full. Holders of the Series A preferred stock have limited voting rights. Except as otherwise required by law and in connection with the election of directors to our board of directors in the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series A preferred stock for an aggregate of at least six quarterly dividend periods (whether or not consecutive), holders of the Series A preferred stock have limited voting rights. So long as shares of the Series A preferred stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of shareholders required by law or our amended and restated charter, the vote or consent of holders owning at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Series A preferred stock outstanding is required for (1) any authorization or issuance of shares ranking senior to the Series A preferred stock; (2) any amendment to the rights of the Series A preferred stock so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting power of the Series A preferred stock; or (3) consummation of any merger, share exchange or similar transaction unless the shares of Series A preferred stock remain outstanding, or if we are not the surviving entity in such transaction, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity and the shares of Series A preferred stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting power as are not materially less favorable to the holders than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting power of the shares of Series A preferred stock. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 