Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Form 10-K, including the following risk factors, before investing in any of our securities. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also impair our business or adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by any of these risks. We may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time by other reports that we file with the SEC in the future. Our business is cyclical and prolonged economic declines, particularly in the level of construction activity, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Demand for our concrete reinforcing products is cyclical in nature and sensitive to general economic conditions. Our products are sold primarily to manufacturers of concrete products for the construction industry and used for a broad range of nonresidential and residential construction applications. Demand in these markets is driven by the level of construction activity which tends to be correlated with general economic conditions. Future economic downturns or a prolonged slowdown in the economy could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Demand for our products is highly variable and difficult to forecast due to our minimal backlog and the unanticipated changes that can occur in customer order patterns or inventory levels. Demand for our products is highly variable. The short lead times for customer orders and minimal backlog that characterize our business make it difficult to forecast the future level of demand for our products. In some cases, unanticipated downturns in demand have been exacerbated by inventory reduction measures pursued by our customers. The combination of these factors may cause our sales, gross profit, cash flow and profitability to vary significantly both in the short-term and over the long-term. 6 Table of Contents Our financial results can be negatively impacted by the volatility in the cost and availability of our primary raw material, hot-rolled carbon steel wire rod. The primary raw material used to manufacture our products is hot-rolled carbon steel wire rod, which is purchased from both domestic and foreign suppliers. We do not use derivative commodity instruments to hedge our exposure to changes in the price of wire rod as such instruments are currently unavailable in the financial markets. Prior to 2004, we typically negotiated quantities and pricing on a quarterly basis for both domestic and foreign wire rod purchases to manage our exposure to price fluctuations and to ensure adequate availability of material consistent with our requirements. However, beginning in 2004, a tightening of supply in the rod market together with fluctuations in the raw material costs of rod producers resulted in increased price volatility which has continued through 2007. In some instances, wire rod producers have resorted to increasing the frequency of price adjustments, typically on a monthly basis as well as unilaterally changing the terms of prior commitments. Although changes in our wire rod costs and selling prices tend to be correlated, depending upon market conditions, there may be periods during which we are unable to fully recover increased rod costs through higher selling prices, which would reduce gross profit and cash flow from operations. Additionally, should raw material costs decline significantly in the future, our financial results may be negatively impacted due to unfavorable inventory revaluation adjustments as well as reduced margins if the selling prices for our products were to decrease by an even greater extent. Our financial results can also be significantly impacted if raw material supplies are inadequate to satisfy our purchasing requirements. During 2004, we lost production time at certain of our facilities because we were unable to obtain sufficient quantities of wire rod due to unanticipated delays in foreign deliveries and the opportunistic policies of domestic suppliers. Trade actions by domestic wire rod producers against offshore suppliers can also have a substantial impact on the availability and cost of imported wire rod. The imposition of anti-dumping margins by the DOC against exporting countries can have the effect of reducing or eliminating their activity in the domestic market which is of increasing significance in view of the reductions in domestic wire rod production capacity that have occurred in recent years. If we were unable to obtain adequate and timely delivery of our raw material requirements, we may be unable to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or operate our manufacturing facilities in an efficient manner which could result in lost sales and higher operating costs. Foreign competition could adversely impact our financial results. Our PC strand business has experienced increasing competitive pressures from offshore producers exporting into the domestic market, particularly from China. During the second half of 2007, we elected not to pursue certain PC strand business that had been negatively impacted by low-priced import competition. If we are unable to purchase raw materials and achieve manufacturing costs that are competitive with those of foreign producers, or if the margin and return requirements of foreign producers are substantially lower, our market share and profit margins could be negatively impacted. In 2003, we together with a coalition of U.S. producers of PC strand obtained a favorable determination from the ITC in response to the petitions we had filed alleging that imports of PC strand from Brazil, India, Korea, Mexico and Thailand were being “dumped” or sold in the U.S. at a price that was lower than the price in their home markets or their cost and had injured the domestic PC strand industry. The ITC imposed anti-dumping duties ranging from 12% up to 119% which had the effect of limiting the participation of these companies in the domestic market. Should domestic market conditions deteriorate in the future to where U.S. producers could demonstrate that imports were being “dumped” in the U.S. market and were causing or threatening to cause material injury to the domestic industry, we would anticipate coordinating with other U.S producers to pursue similar trade cases, although no assurances can be provided that the outcome of such actions would be favorable. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to unexpected equipment failures, operational interruptions and casualty losses. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to risks that may limit our ability to manufacture products, including unexpected equipment failures and catastrophic losses due to other unanticipated events such as fires, explosions, accidents, adverse weather conditions and transportation interruptions. Any such equipment failures or events can subject us to material plant shutdowns, periods of reduced production or unexpected downtime. Furthermore, any operational interruptions may require significant capital expenditures to remedy. Although our insurance coverage could offset the losses or expenditures relating to some of these events, our results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted to the extent that such claims were not covered or only partially covered by our insurance. Our financial results could be adversely impacted by the continued escalation in certain of our operating costs. Our employee benefit costs, particularly our medical and workers’ compensation costs, have increased substantially in recent years and are expected to continue to rise. In addition, higher prices for natural gas, electricity and fuel increase our manufacturing and distribution costs. Most of our sales are made under terms whereby we incur the fuel costs and surcharges associated with the delivery of products to our customers. Although we have implemented numerous measures to offset the 7 Table of Contents impact of the ongoing escalation in these costs, there can be no assurance that such actions will be effective. If we are unable to pass these additional costs through by raising selling prices, our financial results could be adversely impacted. Our capital resources may not be adequate to provide for our capital investment and maintenance expenditures if we were to experience a substantial downturn in our financial performance. Our operations are capital intensive and require substantial recurring expenditures for the routine maintenance of our equipment and facilities. Although we expect to finance our business requirements through internally generated funds or from borrowings under our $100.0 million revolving credit facility, we cannot provide any assurances these resources will be sufficient to support our business. A material adverse change in our operations or financial conditions could limit our ability to borrow funds under our credit facility which could further adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition. Any significant future acquisitions could require additional financing from external sources and may not be available on favorable terms which could adversely impact our operations, growth plans, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital investments and operating costs. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to the protection of the environment that could result in substantially increased capital investments and operating costs. These laws and regulations, which are constantly evolving, are becoming increasingly stringent and the ultimate impact of compliance is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Our production and earnings could be reduced by strikes or work stoppages by our unionized employees. As of September 29, 2007, we employed 559 people, of which approximately 59 were represented by a labor union (approximately 54 employees at our Wilmington, Delaware facility and 5 employees at our Jacksonville, Florida facility). The collective bargaining agreement with the union at the Wilmington facility expired on November 10, 2006. Despite intense negotiations that preceded the expiration of the agreement, we were unable to agree on terms of a new labor contract with the union. Union employees have continued to work without any disruptions under the terms of our last best and final offer which was implemented on November 13, 2006. On November 22, 2006, the union filed an unfair labor practice charge against us with the National Labor Relations Board (“NLRB”) alleging that we: (1) failed to bargain in good faith with the union; (2) unilaterally implemented changes to the terms of conditions of employment; (3) refused to meet with the representative of the union for purposes of bargaining; and (4) refused to supply information for purposes of collective bargaining. The NLRB rejected all charges except the charge of unilateral implementation of the last, best, and final offer. We have reached a tentative settlement with the NLRB under which the terms of the previous collective bargaining agreement that had expired were restored and negotiations are scheduled to reopen in November 2007. The collective bargaining agreement with the union at the Jacksonville facility expires in April 2008. Should we experience a disruption of production at any facility, we have contingency plans in place that would enable us to continue serving our customers, although there can be no assurances that a strike, slowdown or work stoppage would not adversely impact our operating costs and overall financial results. Our stock price can be volatile, often in connection with matters beyond our control. Equity markets in the United States have often been volatile. Over the past year, our common stock has traded as high as $23.00 and as low as $10.00. The following factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, several of which are beyond our control: variations in our quarterly and annual operating results; changes in our business outlook; changes in market valuations of companies in our markets; changes in the expectations for nonresidential and residential construction; and announcements by us or our competitors or industry participants that may be perceived to impact us or our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 