ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves various risks which are particular to our company, our industry and our market area. Several risk factors regarding investing in our common stock are discussed below. This listing should not be considered as all-inclusive. If any of the following risks were to occur, we may not be able to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition or operating results could be negatively impacted. These matters could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline in future periods. We could sustain additional losses if our asset quality declines further. Our earnings are affected by general economic conditions, economic conditions within our markets, loan concentrations and our ability to properly originate, underwrite and service loans. We could sustain additional losses if we incorrectly assess the creditworthiness of our borrowers or fail to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner. Recent problems with asset quality, particularly within the commercial real estate segment of our loan portfolio, have caused, and could continue to cause, our interest income and net interest margin to decrease and our provisions for loan losses and noninterest expenses to increase, which could continue to adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Further increases in non-performing loans would reduce net interest income below levels that would exist if such loans were performing. Our loan portfolio includes an elevated, although shrinking level, of residential construction and land development loans, which loans have a greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans. The Company engages in both traditional single-family residential lending and residential construction and land development lending to developers. The percentage of speculative 1-4 family loans to developers plus construction and land development loans to developers in the Bank’s portfolio was approximately 21.9% at December 31, 2010 compared to 31.1% of total loans at December 31, 2009. This type of lending is generally considered to have relatively high credit risks because the principal is concentrated in a limited number of loans with repayment dependent on the successful completion and operation of the related real estate project. Consequently, the credit quality of many of these loans have deteriorated as a result of the current adverse conditions in the real estate market within our markets. These loans are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor and collateral may be difficult to dispose of in a market decline. A continued reduction in residential real estate market prices and demand could result in further price reductions in home and land values adversely affecting the value of collateral securing the construction and development loans that we hold. These adverse economic and real estate market conditions may lead to further increases in non-performing loans and other real estate owned, increased losses and expenses from the management and disposition of non-performing assets, increases in provision for loan losses, and increases in operating expenses as a result of the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work out of these loans, all of which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, during adverse general economic conditions, such as we believe are now being experienced in residential real estate construction nationwide, borrowers involved in the residential real estate construction and development business may suffer above normal financial strain. Throughout 2010, the number of newly constructed homes or lots sold in our market areas has continued to decline, but at a lesser rate than experienced in 2009, negatively affecting collateral values. As the residential real estate development and construction market in our markets has deteriorated, our borrowers in this segment have experienced difficulty repaying their obligations to us. As a result, our loans to these borrowers have deteriorated and may deteriorate further and may result in additional charge-offs negatively impacting our results of operations. Additionally, to the extent repayment is dependent upon the sale of newly constructed homes or of lots, such sales are likely to be at lower prices or at a slower rate than as expected when the loan was made, which may result in such loans being placed on non-accrual status and subject to higher loss estimates even if the borrower keeps interest payments current. These adverse economic and real estate market conditions may lead to further increases in non-performing loans and other real estate owned, increased charge-offs from the disposition of non-performing assets, and increases in provision for loan losses, all of which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Negative developments in the U.S. and local economy and in local real estate markets have adversely impacted our operations and results and may continue to adversely impact our results in the future. Economic conditions in the markets in which we operate deteriorated significantly between early 2008 and the second half of 2010. As a result, we incurred significant losses in 2008, 2009 and 2010. These challenges resulted primarily from provisions for loan losses related to declining collateral values in our construction and development loan portfolio plus rising OREO related costs associated with the holding and disposition of these assets. Although the FRB has issued statements that economic data suggests strongly that the recession ended in the latter half of 2009, we believe that this difficult economic environment will continue at least into the second half of 2011, and we expect that our results of operations will continue to be negatively impacted as a result. There can be no assurance that the economic conditions that have adversely affected the financial services industry, and the capital, credit and real estate markets generally or us in particular, will improve materially, or at all, in the near future, or thereafter, in which case we could continue to experience significant losses and write-downs of assets, and could face capital and liquidity constraints or other business challenges. 22 Table of Contents Negative developments in the financial services industry and U.S. and global credit markets may adversely impact our operations and results. Negative developments beginning in 2008 and continuing into 2010 in the capital markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing into 2011. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, amongst other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital at reasonable prices or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. Our business is subject to the success of the local economies where we operate. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits, residential real estate stability and housing starts in our market areas. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. Adverse economic conditions in our specific market areas could cause us to continue to experience negative, or limited, growth, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. Continued adverse market or economic conditions in the state of Tennessee generally, and in our markets specifically, may increase the risk that our borrowers will be unable to timely make their loan payments. In addition, the market value of the real estate securing loans as collateral has been and may continue to be adversely affected by continued unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 47% of our loans held for investment were secured by non-owner occupied commercial real estate. Of this amount, approximately 26% were speculative 1-4 residential construction and land development loans to developers, 21% were commercial construction and development loans and 53% were non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans. We experienced increased payment delinquencies with respect to these loans throughout 2009 and 2010 which negatively impacted our results of operations and a sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by continuing adverse market or economic conditions in the state of Tennessee generally, and in our markets specifically, could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and takes a charge against earnings with respect to specific loans when their ultimate collectability is considered questionable. 23 Table of Contents If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require us to increase our allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process additional provision expense would be incurred and our earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. Moreover, additions to the allowance may be necessary based on changes in economic and real estate market conditions, new information regarding existing loans or borrowers, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our management’s control. These additions may require increased provision expense which would negatively impact our results of operations. The Company’s policy requires new appraisals on adversely rated collateral dependent loans to be obtained at least annually. On a quarterly basis, the Company receives a written report from an independent nationally recognized organization which provides updated valuation trends, by price point and by zip code, for each of the major markets in which the Company is conducting business. The information obtained is then used in the Company’s impaired loan analysis of collateral dependent loans and potentially could impact the allowance for loan losses. We, or our bank subsidiary, may become subject to supervisory actions and/or enhanced regulation that could have an additional material negative effect on our business, operating flexibility, financial condition and the value of our common stock. In addition, addressing regulatory concerns in this market environment will require significant time and attention from our management team, which may increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes and adversely affect our profitability in the near-term. Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured depository institutions, the FRB (for bank holding companies), the TDFI (for Tennessee-chartered banks) and, separately, the FDIC (as the insurer of bank deposits), have the authority to compel or restrict certain actions on our part, or the part of the Bank, if they determine that we, or the Bank, have insufficient capital or are otherwise operating in a manner that may be deemed to be inconsistent with safe and sound banking practices. Under this authority, our, and the Bank’s regulators can require us to enter into informal or formal enforcement orders, including board resolutions, memoranda of understanding, written agreements and consent or cease and desist orders, pursuant to which we, or the Bank, would be required to take identified corrective actions to address cited concerns and to refrain from taking certain actions. For additional information relating to the extensive regulation, supervision and legislation that govern most aspects of our operations and limit the businesses in which we engage, please see “Regulation, Supervision and Governmental Policy” beginning on page 14. In light of declining asset quality and earnings in 2010, the Bank informally committed to the TDFI and the FDIC that, among other things, it would maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 10% and Total risk-based capital ratio of at least 14%, and the Company informally committed to the FRB-Atlanta that, among other things, we would not incur any additional indebtedness, pay dividends on our common or preferred stock or pay interest on our TRUPs, without, in each case, the prior approval of the FRB-Atlanta. During the third quarter of 2010, the Bank was subject to a joint examination by the FDIC and the TDFI. Based on initial findings presented to the Bank’s management, the Bank expects that either the FDIC or the TDFI or both will require the Bank to agree to certain improvements in its operations, particularly in relation to asset quality matters. We also believe that the Bank will be required to agree to maintain or increase capital to levels above those required to be considered well capitalized. We do not know at this time what minimum levels of capital the regulators will require. If the requirement to maintain higher capital levels than those required to be well capitalized under the prompt corrective action provisions of the FDICIA is contained in a formal enforcement action of the FDIC, the Bank may be subject to additional limitations on its operations including its ability to pay interest on deposits above proscribed rates, which could adversely affect the Bank’s liquidity and/or operating results. The terms of any such supervisory action that goes beyond the steps we have already taken may have a significant negative effect on our business, operating flexibility, results of operations, financial condition and the value of our common stock. 24 Table of Contents If we, or our bank subsidiary, are unable to maintain capital levels above those that we, or the bank subsidiary, are required to maintain either as a result of federal regulations or as a result of commitments or agreements that we, or our bank subsidiary, have made to, or with, our regulators, we would likely need to raise additional capital, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We, and the Bank, are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our, and the Bank’s, operations. In addition, the Bank has informally committed to the TDFI and the FDIC that it will maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 10% and a Total risk-based capital ratio of at least 14%. At December 31, 2010, the Bank’s Tier 1 leverage ratio and Total risk-based capital ratio were each below the levels that the Bank had committed to maintain and a Capital Action Plan was submitted to our regulators. At December 31, 2010, the Company did not have sufficient capital available to contribute to the Bank to aid the Bank in meeting its commitment. If the Bank is unable to generate sufficient earnings or reduce the size of its assets to achieve the capital levels that it has informally committed to maintain, the Company will likely have to raise additional capital and contribute that capital to the Bank. We can give you no assurance that we will be able to raise this additional capital on terms acceptable to us and given our current stock price and recent financial performance, it is likely that the price at which we could raise such capital, if at all, would result in significant dilution to our existing shareholders. Further, our ability to raise common equity is limited by the number of authorized, but unissued shares reserved under our charter. If we were to raise capital through a common stock offering, we would likely need to increase our authorized common stock, which would require approval of our shareholders. We cannot assure you that our shareholders would approve such a request. Liquidity needs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on dividends from the Bank as our primary source of funds. The primary source of funds of the Bank, are customer deposits and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans which may be more difficult in economically challenging environments like those currently being experienced. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and international instability. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, customer confidence levels and the Bank’s financial strength, returns available to customers on alternative investments, our financial condition and general economic conditions. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include FHLB advances and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks. While we believe that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity demands. We may be required to continue to reduce our asset size, slow or discontinue capital expenditures or other investments or liquidate assets should such sources not be adequate. We rely on dividends from our bank subsidiary as our primary source of liquidity and payment of these dividends is limited under Tennessee law. Under Tennessee law, the amount of dividends that may be declared by the Bank in a year without approval of the Commissioner is limited to net income for that year combined with retained net income for the two preceding years. Because of the losses incurred by the Bank in 2009 and 2010, dividends from the Bank to us, including, if necessary, dividends to support our payment of interest on our subordinated debt and dividends on our preferred stock, including the preferred stock we issued to the U.S. Treasury, would have required prior approval by the Commissioner. During the fourth quarter of 2010, we elected to defer the interest payments on our subordinated debt and dividends on the preferred stock that we issued to the U.S. Treasury as disclosed in our third quarter 2010 Form 10-Q. 25 Table of Contents Our ability to maintain required capital levels and adequate sources of funding and liquidity could be impacted by changes in the capital markets and deteriorating economic and market conditions. We, and the Bank, are required to maintain certain capital levels established by banking regulations or specified by bank regulators or to which we have committed or agreed to maintain. We must also maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support our operations and fund outstanding liabilities. Our ability to maintain capital levels, sources of funding and liquidity could be impacted by changes in the capital markets and deteriorating economic and market conditions. Failure by the Bank to meet applicable capital guidelines (including those higher levels that the Bank has committed, or may commit in the future, to maintain) or to satisfy certain other regulatory requirements could subject the Bank to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities. We have increased levels of other real estate, primarily as a result of foreclosures, and we anticipate higher levels of foreclosed real estate expense. As we have begun to resolve non-performing real estate loans, we have increased the level of foreclosed properties primarily those acquired from builders and from residential land developers. Foreclosed real estate expense consists of three types of charges: maintenance costs, valuation adjustments due to new appraisal values and gains or losses on disposition. As levels of other real estate increase and also as local real estate values decline these charges will likely increase, negatively affecting our results of operations. Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could result in losses. In the course of business, the Bank may acquire, through foreclosure, properties securing loans it has originated or purchased which are in default. Particularly in commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on these properties. In this event, we, or the Bank, might be required to remove these substances from the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of this removal could substantially exceed the value of affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rates may affect our level of interest income, the primary component of our gross revenue, as well as the level of our interest expense. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Accordingly, changes in interest rates could decrease our net interest income. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affects our earnings. National or state legislation or regulation may increase our expenses and reduce earnings. Federal bank regulators are increasing regulatory scrutiny, and additional restrictions (including those originating from the Dodd-Frank Act) on financial institutions have been proposed or adopted and signed into law by the President, regulators and Congress. Changes in federal legislation, regulation or policies, such as bankruptcy laws, deposit insurance, consumer protection laws, and capital requirements, among others, can result in significant increases in our expenses and/or charge-offs, which may adversely affect our earnings. Changes in state or federal tax laws or regulations can have a similar impact. Furthermore, financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to continue to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the continued issuance of additional formal or informal enforcement or supervisory actions. These actions, whether formal or informal, could result in our, or the Bank, agreeing to limitations or to take actions that limit our operational flexibility, restrict our growth or increase our capital or liquidity levels. Failure to comply with any formal or informal regulatory restrictions, including informal commitments like those we and the Bank have made to our primary regulators, could lead to further regulatory enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of recently enacted or new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, industry, legislative or regulatory developments may cause us to materially change our existing strategic direction, capital strategies, compensation or operating plans. 26 Table of Contents Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in each of our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other community banks and super-regional and national financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. Additionally, we face competition from de novo community banks, including those with senior management who were previously affiliated with other local or regional banks or those controlled by investor groups with strong local business and community ties. These de novo community banks may offer higher deposit rates or lower cost loans in an effort to attract our customers, and may attempt to hire our management and employees. We compete with these other financial institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete with an array of financial institutions in our market areas. We reported a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and if we are unable to improve our internal controls, our financial results may not be accurately reported. Management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010 identified a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting, as described in “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.” This material weakness, or difficulties encountered in implementing new or improved controls or remediation, could prevent us from accurately reporting our financial results, result in material misstatements in our financial statements or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Failure to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, the price of our common stock and market confidence in our reported financial information. We have a deferred tax asset and cannot assure you that it will be fully realized. We had net deferred tax assets (“DTA”) of $45.7 million as of December 31, 2010 and established a valuation allowance against our federal net deferred tax assets of $43.5 million. A valuation allowance is recognized for a net DTA if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more-likely-than-not that some portion or the entire DTA will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. In making such judgments, significant weight is given to evidence that can be objectively verified. As a result of the increased credit losses, the Company entered into a three-year cumulative pre-tax loss position (excluding the goodwill impairment charge recognized in the second quarter of 2009) as of June 30, 2010. A cumulative loss position is considered significant negative evidence in assessing the realizability of a deferred tax asset which is difficult to overcome. The Company’s estimate of the realization of its net DTA was based on the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities and taxable income available in prior carry back years, and tax planning strategies. Once profitability has been restored for a reasonable time and such profitability is considered sustainable, the valuation allowance would be reversed. Reversal of the valuation allowance requires a great deal of judgment and will be based on the circumstances that exist as of that future date. We are subject to lawsuits as a result of the losses we incurred in the third quarter of 2010. In the third quarter of 2010, we recognized significant losses as a result of higher costs related to loan charge-offs, coupled with losses incurred on OREO resulting from sales completed and updated property appraisals received during that quarter. As a result, various plaintiffs filed class action lawsuits, which have subsequently been consolidated into one class action, alleging, among other things, disclosure violations regarding our collateral valuations, the timing of our impairment charges and our accounting for loan charge-offs. The defense of this matter has and will continue to entail considerable cost and will be time-consuming for our management. Unfavorable outcomes in this matter could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 27 Table of Contents We rely heavily on the services of key personnel. We are dependent on certain key officers who have important customer relationships or are instrumental to our operations. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management and sales and marketing personnel, particularly in those areas where we may open new branches. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. On February 16, 2011, we announced that James E. Adams, our Chief Financial Officer, will be retiring on May 16, 2011 after the Annual Shareholders Meeting on May 12, 2011. We have commenced a search for a replacement for Mr. Adams, but there can be no assurance that we will have found a suitable replacement prior to that date. The limitations on bonuses, retention awards, severance payments and incentive compensation contained in ARRA may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees. For so long as any equity securities that we issued to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP remain outstanding, ARRA and regulations issued thereunder, including the IFR, severely restrict bonuses, retention awards, severance and change in control payments and other incentive compensation payable to our most highly compensated employees including our five senior executive officers. It is possible that we may be unable to create a compensation structure that permits us to retain such officers or other key employees or recruit additional employees, especially if we are competing against institutions that are not subject to the same restrictions. Failure to retain our key employees could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies including the FRB, the FDIC and the TDFI. Our regulatory compliance is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our operations. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Stock Market that are applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. We expect that the Dodd-Frank Act will similarly result in increases in our compliance costs. As a result, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, greater compliance costs. 28 Table of Contents Our long-term business strategy includes the continuation of growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be affected if our long-term business strategies are not effectively executed. Although our primary focus in the near term will be on strengthening our asset quality and improving our capital position, we intend, over the longer term, to continue pursuing a growth strategy for our business through acquisitions and de novo branching. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties occasionally encountered by financial services companies in growth stages, which may include the following: • Maintaining loan quality; • Maintaining adequate management personnel and information systems to oversee such growth; and, • Maintaining adequate control and compliance functions. Operating Results: There is no assurance that existing offices or future offices will maintain or achieve deposit levels, loan balances or other operating results necessary to avoid losses or produce profits. Our growth and de novo branching strategy necessarily entails growth in overhead expenses as it routinely adds new offices and staff. Our historical results may not be indicative of future results or results that may be achieved as we continue to increase the number and concentration of our branch offices. Development of Offices: There are considerable costs involved in opening branches, and new branches generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they have been in operation for at least a year or more. Accordingly, our de novo branches may be expected to negatively impact our earnings during this period of time until the branches reach certain economies of scale. Expansion into New Markets: Much of our growth over the last five years has been focused in the highly competitive Nashville, Knoxville and Clarksville metropolitan markets. The customer demographics and financial services offerings in these markets are unlike those found in the smaller, more rural East Tennessee markets that we historically served. In the Nashville, Knoxville and Clarksville markets, we face competition from a wide array of financial institutions. Our expansion efforts in these new markets may be impacted if we are unable to meet customer demands or compete effectively with the financial institutions operating in these markets. Regulatory and Economic Factors: Our growth and expansion plans may be adversely affected by a number of regulatory and economic developments or other events. Failure to obtain required regulatory approvals, changes in laws and regulations or other regulatory developments and changes in prevailing economic conditions or other unanticipated events may prevent or adversely affect our continued growth and expansion. Failure to successfully address the issues identified above could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our longer term business strategy. We may face risks with respect to future expansion. From time to time we may engage in additional de novo branch expansion as well as the acquisition of other financial institutions or parts of those institutions. We may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; • inaccuracies in the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; • our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combining businesses; • entry into new markets where we lack experience; • the introduction of new products and services into our business; • the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on our results of operations; and • the risk of loss of key employees and customers. 29 Table of Contents We may incur substantial costs to expand. There can be no assurance that integration efforts for any future mergers or acquisitions will be successful. Also, we may issue equity securities, including common stock and securities convertible into shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our shareholders. There is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, our integration efforts will be successful or we, after giving effect to the acquisition, will achieve profits comparable to or better than our historical experience. We are subject to Tennessee anti-takeover statutes and certain charter provisions which could decrease our chances of being acquired even if the acquisition is in our shareholders’ best interests. As a Tennessee corporation, we are subject to various legislative acts which impose restrictions on and require compliance with procedures designed to protect shareholders against unfair or coercive mergers and acquisitions. These statutes may delay or prevent offers to acquire us and increase the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if the acquisition of us would be in our shareholders’ best interests. Our amended and restated charter also contains provisions which may make it difficult for another entity to acquire us without the approval of a majority of the disinterested directors on our board of directors. The success and growth of our business will depend on our ability to adapt to technological changes. The banking industry and the ability to deliver financial services is becoming more dependent on technological advancement, such as the ability to process loan applications over the Internet, accept electronic signatures, provide process status updates instantly and on-line banking capabilities and other customer expected conveniences that are cost efficient to our business processes. As these technologies are improved in the future, we may, in order to remain competitive, be required to make significant capital expenditures. Even though our common stock is currently traded on The Nasdaq Global Select Market, the trading volume in our common stock has been thin and the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could depress the price of our common stock. We cannot say with any certainty when a more active and liquid trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. Because of this, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or availability of shares of our common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We, therefore, can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. We may issue additional common stock or other equity securities in the future which could dilute the ownership interest of existing common shareholders. In order to maintain our capital at desired levels or required regulatory levels, or to fund future growth, our board of directors may decide from time to time to issue additional shares of common stock, preferred stock or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing rights to acquire shares of our common stock. The sale of these shares may significantly dilute our shareholders’ ownership interest and the per share book value of our common stock. New investors in the future may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders which may adversely impact our current shareholders. 30 Table of Contents Our ability to declare and pay dividends is limited by law, by commitments we have made to our regulators and by the terms of the Series A preferred stock that we have issued to the U.S. Treasury, and we may be unable to pay future dividends. We derive our income solely from dividends on the shares of common stock of the Bank. The Bank’s ability to declare and pay dividends to us is limited by its obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general restrictions on its dividends that are applicable to banks that are regulated by the FDIC and the TDFI. In addition, the terms of the Series A preferred stock impose restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and we have informally committed to the FRB-Atlanta that we will not pay dividends on our common or preferred stock without the FRB-Atlanta’s prior approval. On November 9, 2010, following consultation with the FRB-Atlanta, we notified the U.S. Treasury that we were suspending the payment of regular quarterly cash dividends on preferred stock that we had issued to the U.S. Treasury in the CPP. We do not know when we will receive permission from the FRB-Atlanta to resume paying dividends on our common or preferred stock. We cannot assure our shareholders that we will declare or pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the future. Holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our common and Series A preferred shareholders. We had supported our previous growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from special purpose trusts and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. This financing vehicle is no longer an attractive source for funding acquisitions as a result of the changing characteristics of trust preferred securities and their limited attributes towards qualifying as primary regulatory capital. At December 31, 2010, we had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures totaling $88.7 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of these trusts are conditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures we issued to the trusts are senior to our shares of common stock and the Series A preferred stock that we issued to the U.S. Treasury in the CPP. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock or the Series A preferred stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock or Series A preferred stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock or our Series A preferred stock. As described above, we have informally committed to the FRB-Atlanta that we will not pay interest on the subordinated debentures without the prior approval of the FRB-Atlanta. In the fourth quarter of 2010, following consultation with the FRB-Atlanta, we notified the trustees with respect to each series of our subordinated debentures, of our intent to defer interest payments on the subordinated debentures beginning with the interest payments due in the fourth quarter of 2010. The Series A preferred stock impacts net income available to our common shareholders and our earnings per share. As long as shares of our Series A preferred stock are outstanding, no dividends may be paid on our common stock unless all dividends on the Series A preferred stock have been paid in full. Additionally, prior to December 23, 2011, unless we redeem the Series A preferred stock or the U.S. Treasury has transferred the Series A preferred stock to a third party, we are not permitted to pay cash dividends on our common stock in excess of $0.13 per quarter without the U.S. Treasury’s consent. The dividends declared on shares of our Series A preferred stock will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. Additionally, warrants to purchase our common stock issued to the Treasury, in conjunction with the issuance of the Series A preferred stock, may be dilutive to our earnings per share. The shares of our Series A preferred stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. 31 Table of Contents Holders of the Series A preferred stock have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders. The Series A preferred stock that we have issued to the U.S. Treasury is senior to our shares of common stock, and holders of the Series A preferred stock have certain rights and preferences that are senior to holders of our common stock. The Series A preferred stock will rank senior to our common stock and all other equity securities of ours designated as ranking junior to the Series A preferred stock. So long as any shares of the Series A preferred stock remain outstanding, unless all accrued and unpaid dividends on shares of the Series A preferred stock for all prior dividend periods have been paid or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full, no dividend whatsoever shall be paid or declared on our common stock or other junior stock, other than a dividend payable solely in common stock. Prior to December 23, 2011, unless we redeem the Series A preferred stock or the U.S. Treasury has transferred the Series A preferred stock to a third party we and our subsidiaries also may not, with certain limited exceptions, purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any shares of our common stock or other junior stock without the U.S. Treasury’s consent. During that three-year period, and thereafter, we and our subsidiaries may not purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of our common stock or other junior stock unless we have paid in full all accrued and unpaid dividends on the Series A preferred stock, other than in certain circumstances. Furthermore, the Series A preferred stock is entitled to a liquidation preference over shares of our common stock in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Holders of the Series A preferred stock may, under certain circumstances, have the right to elect two directors to our board of directors. As described above, on November 9, 2010, we notified the U.S. Treasury that we were suspending the payment of dividends on the Series A preferred stock beginning with the dividend payment due in the fourth quarter of 2010. In the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series A preferred stock for an aggregate of six quarterly dividend periods or more (whether or not consecutive), the authorized number of directors then constituting our board of directors will be increased by two. Holders of the Series A preferred stock, together with the holders of any outstanding parity stock with like voting rights, referred to as voting parity stock, voting as a single class, will be entitled to elect the two additional members of our board of directors, referred to as the preferred stock directors, at the next annual meeting (or at a special meeting called for the purpose of electing the preferred stock directors prior to the next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been paid in full. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 