Risk Factors You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Form 10-K, including the following risk factors, before investing in any of our securities. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also impair our business or adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time by other reports that we file with the SEC in the future. Our business is cyclical and can be negatively impacted by prolonged economic downturns or tightening in the credit markets that reduce the level of construction activity and demand for our products. 7 Table of Contents Demand for our concrete reinforcing products is cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in the economy and in the credit markets. Our products are sold primarily to manufacturers of concrete products for the construction industry and used for a broad range of nonresidential and residential construction applications. Demand in these markets is driven by the level of construction activity, which tends to be correlated with conditions in the general economy as well as other factors beyond our control. The tightening in the credit markets during fiscal 2009 could continue to unfavorably impact demand for our products by reducing the availability of financing to our customers and the construction industry as a whole. Although the implementation of unprecedented measures by the federal government have improved liquidity in the financial markets, the availability of financing continues to be constrained and the ultimate impact of these measures remains uncertain. Future prolonged periods of economic weakness or reduced availability of financing could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Demand for our products is highly variable and difficult to forecast due to our minimal backlog and the unanticipated changes that can occur in customer order patterns or inventory levels. Demand for our products is highly variable. The short lead times for customer orders and minimal backlog that characterize our business make it difficult to forecast the future level of demand for our products. In some cases, unanticipated downturns in demand have been exacerbated by inventory reduction measures pursued by our customers. The combination of these factors may cause significant fluctuations in our sales, profitability and cash flows. Our customers may be adversely affected by the continued negative macroeconomic conditions and tightening in the credit markets. Current negative macroeconomic conditions and the tightening in the credit markets could limit the ability of our customers to fund their financing requirements, thereby reducing their purchasing volume with us. Further, the reduction in the availability of credit may increase the risk of customers defaulting on their payment obligations to us. The continuation or occurrence of these events could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although the additional federal infrastructure-related funding provided for under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (“ARRA”) is expected to have a favorable impact on demand for our products, the timing and magnitude of the impact are uncertain. ARRA provides for significant increases in federal infrastructure-related funding, which should have a favorable impact on demand for our products. However, the timing and magnitude of the impact are uncertain, and we do not expect that it would be sufficient to offset the reduced demand for our products resulting from the continued weakening in nonresidential construction attributable to the economic downturn and the tightening in the credit markets. Our financial results can be negatively impacted by the volatility in the cost and availability of our primary raw material, hot-rolled carbon steel wire rod. The primary raw material used to manufacture our products is hot-rolled carbon steel wire rod, which we purchase from both domestic and foreign suppliers. We do not use derivative commodity instruments to hedge our exposure to changes in the price of wire rod as such instruments are currently unavailable in the financial markets. Beginning in fiscal 2004, a tightening of supply in the rod market together with fluctuations in the raw material costs of rod producers resulted in increased price volatility which continued through fiscal 2008, when wire rod prices rose to a record high. During 2009, wire rod prices plummeted in response to weakening demand due to the recessionary conditions in the economy and inventory destocking measures that were pursued throughout the supply chain. In response to the increased pricing volatility, wire rod producers have resorted to increasing the frequency of price adjustments, typically on a monthly basis as well as unilaterally changing the terms of prior commitments. Although changes in our wire rod costs and selling prices tend to be correlated, depending upon market conditions, there may be periods during which we are unable to fully recover increased rod costs through higher selling prices, which would reduce gross profit and cash flow from operations. Additionally, should raw material costs decline, our financial results may be negatively impacted if the selling prices for our products decrease to an even greater degree and to the extent that we are consuming higher cost material from inventory, as experienced during fiscal 2009. Our financial results can also be significantly impacted if raw material supplies are inadequate to satisfy our purchasing requirements. Trade actions by domestic wire rod producers against offshore suppliers can also have a substantial impact on the availability and cost of imported wire rod. The imposition of anti-dumping or countervailing duty margins by the Department of 8 Table of Contents Commerce against exporting countries can have the effect of reducing or eliminating their activity in the domestic market, which is of increasing significance in view of the reductions in domestic wire rod production capacity that have occurred in recent years. If we were unable to obtain adequate and timely delivery of our raw material requirements, we may be unable to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or operate our manufacturing facilities in an efficient manner which could result in lost sales and higher operating costs. Foreign competition could adversely impact our financial results. Our PC strand business has experienced increasing competitive pressures from offshore producers exporting into the domestic market, particularly from China. Beginning in the second half of fiscal 2007, we elected not to pursue certain PC strand business that had been negatively impacted by low-priced Chinese import competition. If we are unable to purchase raw materials and achieve manufacturing costs that are competitive with those of foreign producers, or if the margin and return requirements of foreign producers are substantially lower, our market share and profit margins could be negatively impacted. In 2003, we, together with a coalition of U.S. producers of PC strand, obtained a favorable determination from the International Trade Commission (the “ITC”) in response to the petitions we had filed alleging that imports of PC strand from Brazil, India, Korea, Mexico and Thailand were being “dumped” or sold in the U.S. at a price that was lower than the price in their home markets or their cost and had injured the domestic PC strand industry. The ITC imposed anti-dumping duties ranging from 12% up to 119% which had the effect of limiting the participation of these companies in the domestic market. The ITC is expected to complete its sunset review of these duties on November 10, 2009. Should the ITC vote against the continuation of the duties, imports of PC strand from these countries are likely to rise, which would have a negative impact on our PC strand business. In May 2009, a coalition of U.S. PC strand producers, including Insteel, filed antidumping and countervailing duty petitions alleging that imports of PC strand from China were injuring the domestic PC strand industry. The petitions allege that imports of PC strand from China were being “dumped” or sold in the U.S. at a price that was lower than its fair value and that subsidies were being provided to Chinese PC strand producers by the Chinese government. The petitioners are alleging dumping margins ranging from 140.31% to 314.99%, with an average margin of 223.47%. On October 27, 2009, the U.S. Department of Commerce (“DOC”) issued a preliminary determination in the affirmative regarding the countervailing duty case, imposing preliminary margins ranging from 7.53% to 12.06% on imports of PC strand from China. As a result, importers are required to post cash deposits or bonds on all future imports of Chinese PC strand in the amount of the preliminary margins calculated by the DOC. The current deadline for the preliminary decision on the antidumping case is December 3, 2009. If the DOC rules in the affirmative on the antidumping case, importers would be required to begin posting cash deposits or bonds on all future imports of Chinese PC strand in the amount of the preliminary antidumping margins calculated by the DOC in addition to the preliminary countervailing duty margins. The entire investigative process is anticipated to take approximately one year, with the final determinations of injury, dumping and subsidies expected to occur in mid-2010. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to unexpected equipment failures, operational interruptions and casualty losses. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to risks that may limit our ability to manufacture products, including unexpected equipment failures and catastrophic losses due to other unanticipated events such as fires, explosions, accidents, adverse weather conditions and transportation interruptions. Any such equipment failures or events can subject us to material plant shutdowns, periods of reduced production or unexpected downtime. Furthermore, the resolution of certain operational interruptions may require significant capital expenditures. Although our insurance coverage could offset the losses or expenditures relating to some of these events, our results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted to the extent that such claims were not covered or only partially covered by our insurance. Our financial results could be adversely impacted by the continued escalation in certain of our operating costs. Our employee benefit costs, particularly our medical and workers’ compensation costs, have increased substantially in recent years and are expected to continue to rise. In addition, higher prices for natural gas, electricity, fuel and consumables increase our manufacturing and distribution costs. Most of our sales are made under terms whereby we incur the fuel costs and surcharges associated with the delivery of products to our customers. Although we have implemented numerous measures to offset the impact of the ongoing escalation in these costs, there can be no assurance that such actions will be effective. If we are unable to pass these additional costs through by raising selling prices, our financial results could be adversely impacted. Our capital resources may not be adequate to provide for our capital investment and maintenance expenditures if we were to 9 Table of Contents experience a substantial downturn in our financial performance. Our operations are capital intensive and require substantial recurring expenditures for the routine maintenance of our equipment and facilities. Although we expect to finance our business requirements through internally generated funds or from borrowings under our $100.0 million revolving credit facility, we cannot provide any assurances these resources will be sufficient to support our business. A material adverse change in our operations or financial condition could limit our ability to borrow funds under our credit facility which could further adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition. Any significant future acquisitions could require additional financing from external sources and may not be available on favorable terms which could adversely impact our operations, growth plans, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital investments and operating costs. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to the protection of the environment that could result in substantially increased capital investments and operating costs. These laws and regulations, which are constantly evolving, are becoming increasingly stringent and the ultimate impact of compliance is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Our production and earnings could be reduced by strikes or work stoppages by our unionized employees. As of October 3, 2009, we employed 438 people, of which 44 were represented by labor unions (39 employees at our Wilmington, Delaware facility and 5 employees at our Jacksonville, Florida facility). We have collective bargaining agreements in place with each union. The agreement for the Wilmington facility expires on November 10, 2012. The agreement for the Jacksonville facility expires on April 30 of each year and is automatically renewed unless either party provides notification of its intent to modify or terminate the agreement. Should we experience a disruption of production at any facility, we have contingency plans in place that would enable us to continue serving our customers, although there can be no assurances that a strike, slowdown or work stoppage would not adversely impact our operating costs and overall financial results. Our stock price can be volatile, often in connection with matters beyond our control. Equity markets in the U.S. have often been volatile. During fiscal 2009, our common stock traded as high as $14.72 and as low as $4.76. The following factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, several of which are beyond our control: variations in our quarterly and annual operating results; changes in our business outlook; changes in market valuations of companies in our industry; changes in the expectations for nonresidential and residential construction; and announcements by us, our competitors or industry participants that may be perceived to impact us or our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 