ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves various risks which are particular to our company, our industry and our market area. Several risk factors regarding investing in our common stock are discussed below. This listing should not be considered as all-inclusive. If any of the following risks were to occur, we may not be able to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition or operating results could be negatively impacted. These matters could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline in future periods. We could sustain losses if our asset quality declines further. Our earnings are affected by our ability to properly originate, underwrite and service loans. We could sustain losses if we incorrectly assess the creditworthiness of our borrowers or fail to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner. Recent problems with asset quality have caused, and could continue to cause, our interest income and net interest margin to decrease and our provisions for loan losses to increase, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Further increases in non-performing loans would reduce net interest income below levels that would exist if such loans were performing. Our loan portfolio includes an elevated, although shrinking level, of residential construction and land development loans, which loans have a greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans. The Company engages in both traditional single-family residential lending and residential construction and land development loans to developers. The percentage of construction and land development loans to developers in the Bank’s portfolio was approximately 16.1% at December 31, 2009 compared to 21.8% of total loans at December 31, 2008. This type of lending is generally considered to have more complex credit risks than traditional single-family residential lending because the principal is concentrated in a limited number of loans with repayment dependent on the successful operation of the related real estate project. Consequently, these loans are more sensitive to the current adverse conditions in the real estate market and the general economy. These loans are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor and collateral may be difficult to dispose of in a market decline. Furthermore, during adverse general economic conditions, such as we believe are now being experienced in residential real estate construction nationwide, borrowers involved in the residential real estate construction and development business may suffer above normal financial strain. Throughout 2009, the number of newly constructed homes or lots sold in our market areas has continued to decline, negatively affecting collateral values. As the residential real estate development and construction market in our markets has deteriorated, our borrowers in this segment have begun to experience 17 Table of Contents difficulty repaying their obligations to us. As a result, our loans to these borrowers have deteriorated and may deteriorate further and may result in additional charge-offs negatively impacting our results of operations. Additionally, to the extent repayment is dependent upon the sale of newly constructed homes or of lots, such sales are likely to be at lower prices or at a slower rate than as expected when the loan was made, which may result in such loans being placed on non-accrual status and subject to higher loss estimates even if the borrower keeps interest payments current. These adverse economic and real estate market conditions may lead to further increases in non-performing loans and other real estate owned, increased charge-offs from the disposition of non-performing assets, and increases in provision for loan losses, all of which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Negative developments in the U.S. and local economy and in local real estate markets have adversely impacted our operations and results and may continue to adversely impact our results in the future. Economic conditions in the markets in which we operate have deteriorated significantly since early 2008. As a result, we have experienced a significant reduction in our earnings, resulting primarily from provisions for loan losses related to declining collateral values in our construction and development loan portfolio. Although the Federal Reserve has issued statements that economic data suggests strongly that the recession ended in the latter half of 2009, we believe that this difficult economic environment will continue at least into the first half of 2010, and we expect that our results of operations will continue to be negatively impacted as a result. There can be no assurance that the economic conditions that have adversely affected the financial services industry, and the capital, credit and real estate markets generally or us in particular, will improve, in which case we could continue to experience significant losses and write-downs of assets, and could face capital and liquidity constraints or other business challenges. Negative developments in the financial services industry and U.S. and global credit markets may adversely impact our operations and results. Negative developments throughout 2008 and into 2009 in the capital markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing into 2010. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, amongst other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like us, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital at reasonable prices or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. Our business is subject to the success of the local economies where we operate. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits, residential real estate stability and housing starts in our market areas. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. Adverse economic conditions in our specific market areas could cause us to continue to experience negative, or limited, growth, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. Continued adverse market or economic conditions in the state of Tennessee may increase the risk that our borrowers will be unable to timely make their loan payments. In addition, the market value of the real estate securing loans as collateral has been and may continue to be adversely affected by continued unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 52% of our loans held for investment were secured by commercial real estate. Of this amount, approximately 31% were residential construction and land development loans to developers, 30% were commercial construction and development loans and 38% were non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans. We experienced increased payment delinquencies with respect to these loans throughout 2008 and 2009 which negatively impacted our results of operations and a sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by continuing adverse market or economic conditions in the state of Tennessee could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and takes a charge against earnings with respect to specific loans when their ultimate collectability is considered questionable. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require us to increase our allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, additional provision expense would be incurred and our earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. Moreover, additions to the allowance may be necessary based on changes in economic and real estate market conditions, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our management’s control. These additions may require increased provision expense which would negatively impact our results of operations. The Company’s policy requires new appraisals on adversely rated collateral dependent loans to be obtained at least annually. On a quarterly basis, the Company receives a written report from an independent nationally recognized organization which provides updated valuation trends, by price point and by zip code, for each of the major markets in which the Company is conducting business. The information obtained is then used in the Company’s impaired loan analysis of collateral dependent loans and potentially could impact the allowance for loan losses. We have increased levels of other real estate, primarily as a result of foreclosures, and we anticipate higher levels of foreclosed real estate expense. As we have begun to resolve non-performing real estate loans, we have increased the level of foreclosed properties primarily those acquired from builders and from residential land developers. Foreclosed real estate expense consists of three types of charges: maintenance costs, valuation adjustments due to new appraisal values and gains or losses on disposition. As levels of other real estate increase and also as local real estate values decline these charges will likely increase, negatively affecting our results of operations. Liquidity needs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on dividends from the Bank as our primary source of funds. The primary source of funds of the Bank, are customer deposits and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans which may be more difficult in economically challenging environments like those currently being experienced. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and international instability. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, returns available to customers on alternative investments, our financial condition and general economic conditions. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include FHLB advances and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks. While we believe that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity demands. We may be required to continue to reduce our asset size, slow or discontinue capital expenditures or other investments or liquidate assets should such sources not be adequate. 19 Table of Contents We rely on dividends from our bank subsidiary as our primary source of liquidity and payment of these dividends is limited under Tennessee law. Under Tennessee law, the amount of dividends that may be declared by the Bank in a year without approval of the Commissioner is limited to net income for that year combined with retained net income for the two preceding years. Because of the loss incurred by the Bank in 2009, dividends from the Bank to us, including, if necessary, dividends to support our payment of interest on our subordinated debt and dividends on our preferred stock, including the preferred stock we issued to the U.S. Treasury, will require prior approval by the Commissioner. If, in the future, we do not have sufficient funds available at the holding company to pay these, or any other, interest payments or dividends, and the Bank is unable to secure permission from the Commissioner to pay dividends to us, we will need to seek other sources of capital to make these payments, or, if other sources of capital are unavailable to us on satisfactory terms, we may need to defer the making of these payments until such time as the Bank receives permission to pay dividends to us, or such permission is no longer required. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rates may affect our level of interest income, the primary component of our gross revenue, as well as the level of our interest expense. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Accordingly, changes in interest rates could decrease our net interest income. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affects our earnings. Legislative and regulatory initiatives that were enacted in response to the recent financial crisis are beginning to wind down. The U.S. federal, state and foreign governments have taken various actions in an attempt to deal with the worldwide financial crisis that began in the second half of 2008 and the severe decline in the global economy. Some of these programs are beginning to expire and the impact of the wind down on the financial sector and on the economic recovery is unknown. In the United States, EESA was enacted on October 3, 2008. The TARP, established pursuant to EESA, includes the CPP, pursuant to which the U.S. Treasury is authorized to purchase senior preferred stock and common or preferred stock warrants from participating financial institutions. TARP also authorized the purchase of other securities and financial instruments for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to U.S. financial markets. On September 18, 2009, the U.S. Treasury guarantee on money market mutual funds expired. On October 20, 2009, the FDIC announced that the Temporary Loan Guarantee Program pursuant to which the FDIC guarantees unsecured debt of banks and certain holding companies would expire October 31, 2009, except for a temporary emergency facility allowing certain participating entities to apply to the FDIC to issue FDIC-guaranteed debt during the period beginning October 31, 2009 and running through April 30, 2010. The Transaction Account Guarantee portion of the program, which guarantees non interest bearing bank transaction accounts on an unlimited basis, is scheduled to continue until June 30, 2010. National or state legislation or regulation may increase our expenses and reduce earnings. Federal bank regulators are increasing regulatory scrutiny, and additional restrictions on financial institutions have been proposed by the President, regulators and Congress. Changes in federal legislation, regulation or policies, such as bankruptcy laws, deposit insurance, consumer protection laws, and capital requirements, among others, can result in significant increases in our expenses and/or charge-offs, which may adversely affect our earnings. Changes in state or federal tax laws or regulations can have a similar impact. Furthermore, financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to continue to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the continued issuance of additional formal or informal enforcement or supervisory actions. If we were required to enter into such actions with our regulators, we could be required to agree to limitations or take actions that limit our operational flexibility, restrict our growth or increase our capital or liquidity levels. Failure to comply with any formal or informal regulatory restrictions, including informal supervisory actions, could lead to further regulatory enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of recently enacted or new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, industry, legislative or regulatory developments may cause us to materially change our existing strategic direction, capital strategies, compensation or operating plans. 20 Table of Contents Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in each of our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other community banks and super-regional and national financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. Additionally, we face competition from de novo community banks, including those with senior management who were previously affiliated with other local or regional banks or those controlled by investor groups with strong local business and community ties. These de novo community banks may offer higher deposit rates or lower cost loans in an effort to attract our customers, and may attempt to hire our management and employees. We compete with these other financial institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete with an array of financial institutions in our market areas. If we continue to experience losses at levels that we experienced during 2008 and 2009 we may need to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. While we believe our capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future, we may at some point, if we continue to experience losses, need to raise additional capital to support or strengthen our capital position. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. In addition, we have from time to time supported our capital position with the issuance of trust preferred securities. The trust preferred market has deteriorated significantly since the second half of 2007 and it is unlikely that we would be able to issue trust preferred securities in the future on terms consistent with our previous issuances, if at all. Accordingly, we cannot assure our shareholders that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, we may be subject to increased regulatory restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to expand our operations. Our ability to maintain required capital levels and adequate sources of funding and liquidity could be impacted by changes in the capital markets and deteriorating economic and market conditions. We, and the Bank, are required to maintain certain capital levels established by banking regulations or specified by bank regulators. We must also maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support our operations and fund outstanding liabilities. Our ability to maintain capital levels, sources of funding and liquidity could be impacted by changes in the capital markets and deteriorating economic and market conditions. In addition, we have from time to time supported our capital position with the issuance of trust preferred securities, the market for which has deteriorated significantly. Failure by the Bank to meet applicable capital guidelines or to satisfy certain other regulatory requirements could subject the Bank to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities. These include limitations on the ability to pay dividends, the issuance by the regulatory authority of a capital directive to increase capital, and the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC. We have a significant deferred tax asset and cannot assure you that it will be fully realized. We had net deferred tax assets of $13.6 million as of December 31, 2009. We did not establish a valuation allowance against our federal net deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2009 because we believe that it is more likely than not that all of these assets will be realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we estimated future taxable income based on management prepared forecasts. This process required significant judgment by management about matters that are by nature uncertain. If future events differ significantly from our current forecasts, we may need to establish a valuation allowance, which could have a material temporary adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents We rely heavily on the services of key personnel. We are dependent on certain key officers who have important customer relationships or are instrumental to our operations. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management and sales and marketing personnel, particularly in those areas where we may open new branches. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. On September 2, 2009, we announced that R. Stan Puckett, our Chief Executive Officer, will be retiring on March 31, 2010. We have commenced a search for a replacement for Mr. Puckett and expect to have a replacement prior to Mr. Puckett’s retirement date, but there can be no assurance that we will have found a suitable replacement prior to that that date. The limitations on bonuses, retention awards, severance payments and incentive compensation contained in ARRA may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees. For so long as any equity securities that we issued to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP remain outstanding, ARRA and regulations issued thereunder, including the IFR, severely restrict bonuses, retention awards, severance and change in control payments and other incentive compensation payable to our most highly compensated employees including our five senior executive officers. It is possible that we may be unable to create a compensation structure that permits us to retain such officers or other key employees or recruit additional employees, especially if we are competing against institutions that are not subject to the same restrictions. Failure to retain our key employees could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies including the FRB, the FDIC and the TDFI. Our regulatory compliance is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our operations. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Stock Market that are applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. As a result, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, greater compliance costs. The amount of common stock owned by, and other compensation arrangements with, our officers and directors may make it more difficult to obtain shareholder approval of potential takeovers that they oppose. As of December 31, 2009, directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 11.50% of our common stock. Agreements with selected members of our senior management also provide for certain payments under various circumstances following a change in control. These compensation arrangements, although limited so long as we have an outstanding obligation to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP, together with the common stock and option ownership of our board of directors and management, could make it difficult or expensive to obtain majority support for shareholder proposals or potential acquisition proposals. Our long-term business strategy includes the continuation of growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be affected if our long-term business strategies are not effectively executed. Although our primary focus in the near term will be on strengthening our asset quality and organically growing our balance sheet, we intend, over the longer term, to continue pursuing a growth strategy for our business through acquisitions and de novo branching. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties occasionally encountered by financial services companies in growth stages, which may include the following: • Maintaining loan quality; 22 Table of Contents • Maintaining adequate management personnel and information systems to oversee such growth; and, • Maintaining adequate control and compliance functions. Operating Results: There is no assurance that existing offices or future offices will maintain or achieve deposit levels, loan balances or other operating results necessary to avoid losses or produce profits. Our growth and de novo branching strategy necessarily entails growth in overhead expenses as it routinely adds new offices and staff. Our historical results may not be indicative of future results or results that may be achieved as we continue to increase the number and concentration of our branch offices. Development of Offices: There are considerable costs involved in opening branches, and new branches generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they have been in operation for at least a year or more. Accordingly, our de novo branches may be expected to negatively impact our earnings during this period of time until the branches reach certain economies of scale. Expansion into New Markets: Much of our growth over the last five years has been focused in the highly competitive Nashville, Knoxville and Clarksville metropolitan markets. The customer demographics and financial services offerings in these markets are unlike those found in the smaller, more rural East Tennessee markets that we historically served. In the Nashville, Knoxville and Clarksville markets, we face competition from a wide array of financial institutions. Our expansion efforts in these new markets may be impacted if we are unable to meet customer demands or compete effectively with the financial institutions operating in these markets. Regulatory and Economic Factors: Our growth and expansion plans may be adversely affected by a number of regulatory and economic developments or other events. Failure to obtain required regulatory approvals, changes in laws and regulations or other regulatory developments and changes in prevailing economic conditions or other unanticipated events may prevent or adversely affect our continued growth and expansion. Failure to successfully address the issues identified above could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our longer term business strategy. We may face risks with respect to future expansion. From time to time we may engage in additional de novo branch expansion as well as the acquisition of other financial institutions or parts of those institutions. We may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; • inaccuracies in the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; • our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combining businesses; • entry into new markets where we lack experience; • the introduction of new products and services into our business; • the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on our results of operations; and • the risk of loss of key employees and customers. We may incur substantial costs to expand. There can be no assurance that integration efforts for any future mergers or acquisitions will be successful. Also, we may issue equity securities, including common stock and securities convertible into shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our shareholders. There is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, our integration efforts will be successful or we, after giving effect to the acquisition, will achieve profits comparable to or better than our historical experience. 23 Table of Contents We are subject to Tennessee anti-takeover statutes and certain charter provisions which could decrease our chances of being acquired even if the acquisition is in our shareholders’ best interests. As a Tennessee corporation, we are subject to various legislative acts which impose restrictions on and require compliance with procedures designed to protect shareholders against unfair or coercive mergers and acquisitions. These statutes may delay or prevent offers to acquire us and increase the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if the acquisition of us would be in our shareholders’ best interests. Our amended and restated charter also contains provisions which may make it difficult for another entity to acquire us without the approval of a majority of the disinterested directors on our board of directors. The success and growth of our business will depend on our ability to adapt to technological changes. The banking industry and the ability to deliver financial services is becoming more dependent on technological advancement, such as the ability to process loan applications over the Internet, accept electronic signatures, provide process status updates instantly and on-line banking capabilities and other customer expected conveniences that are cost efficient to our business processes. As these technologies are improved in the future, we may, in order to remain competitive, be required to make significant capital expenditures. Even though our common stock is currently traded on The Nasdaq Global Select Market, the trading volume in our common stock has been thin and the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could depress the price of our common stock. We cannot say with any certainty when a more active and liquid trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. Because of this, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or availability of shares of our common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We, therefore, can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. We may issue additional common stock or other equity securities in the future which could dilute the ownership interest of existing common shareholders. In order to maintain our capital at desired levels or required regulatory levels, or to fund future growth, our board of directors may decide from time to time to issue additional shares of common stock, preferred stock or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing rights to acquire shares of our common stock. The sale of these shares may significantly dilute our shareholders’ ownership interest and the per share book value of our common stock. New investors in the future may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current shareholders which may adversely impact our current shareholders. Our ability to declare and pay dividends is limited by law and by the terms of the Series A preferred stock and we may be unable to pay future dividends. We derive our income solely from dividends on the shares of common stock of the Bank. The Bank’s ability to declare and pay dividends to us is limited by its obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general restrictions on its dividends that are applicable to banks that are regulated by the FDIC and the TDFI. In addition, the FRB and the terms of the Series A preferred stock impose restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. As a result, we cannot assure our shareholders that we will declare or pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the future. 24 Table of Contents Holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our common and Series A preferred shareholders. We have supported our continued growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from special purpose trusts and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2009, we had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures totaling $88.7 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of these trusts are conditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures we issued to the trusts are senior to our shares of common stock and the Series A preferred stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock or the Series A preferred stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock or Series A preferred stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock or our Series A preferred stock. The Series A preferred stock impacts net income available to our common shareholders and our earnings per share. As long as shares of our Series A preferred stock are outstanding, no dividends may be paid on our common stock unless all dividends on the Series A preferred stock have been paid in full. Additionally, prior to December 23, 2011, unless we redeem the Series A preferred stock or the U.S. Treasury has transferred the Series A preferred stock to a third party, we are not permitted to pay cash dividends on our common stock in excess of $0.13 per quarter without the U.S. Treasury’s consent. The dividends declared on shares of our Series A preferred stock will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. Additionally, warrants to purchase our common stock issued to the Treasury, in conjunction with the issuance of the Series A preferred stock, may be dilutive to our earnings per share. The shares of our Series A preferred stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Holders of the Series A preferred stock have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders. The Series A preferred stock that we have issued to the U.S. Treasury is senior to our shares of common stock, and holders of the Series A preferred stock have certain rights and preferences that are senior to holders of our common stock. The Series A preferred stock will rank senior to our common stock and all other equity securities of ours designated as ranking junior to the Series A preferred stock. So long as any shares of the Series A preferred stock remain outstanding, unless all accrued and unpaid dividends on shares of the Series A preferred stock for all prior dividend periods have been paid or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full, no dividend whatsoever shall be paid or declared on our common stock or other junior stock, other than a dividend payable solely in common stock. Prior to December 23, 2011, unless we redeem the Series A preferred stock or the U.S. Treasury has transferred the Series A preferred stock to a third party we and our subsidiaries also may not, with certain limited exceptions, purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any shares of our common stock or other junior stock without the U.S. Treasury’s consent. During that three-year period, and thereafter, we and our subsidiaries may not purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of our common stock or other junior stock unless we have paid in full all accrued and unpaid dividends on the Series A preferred stock, other than in certain circumstances. Furthermore, the Series A preferred stock is entitled to a liquidation preference over shares of our common stock in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Holders of the Series A preferred stock may, under certain circumstances, have the right to elect two directors to our board of directors. In the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series A preferred stock for an aggregate of six quarterly dividend periods or more (whether or not consecutive), the authorized number of directors then constituting our board of directors will be increased by two. Holders of the Series A preferred stock, together with the holders of any outstanding parity stock with like voting rights, referred to as voting parity stock, voting as a single class, will be entitled to elect the two additional members of our board of directors, referred to as the preferred stock directors, at the next annual meeting (or at a special meeting called for the purpose of electing the preferred stock directors prior to the next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been paid in full. 25 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 