Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. You should consider the following risks, as well as the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K before deciding to invest in our common stock. We have a recent history of net losses and are subject to risks regarding future liquidity. We have experienced operating losses during our last six fiscal years. The net loss applicable to common stockholders was $11,566,000 for the 2013 calendar year and the accumulated deficit was $23,429,000 as of December 31, 2013. The Company does not anticipate a return to operating profits in the near term and there can be no assurance that we will be able to improve our results of operations in the near term or at all. The Company’s ordinary short-term capital needs are expected to be met from our current cash on hand and amounts available under the revolving credit agreement with East West Bank which to date remains unused. Cash flows may be impacted by a number of factors, including changing market conditions, market acceptance of the FORE-SIGHT system, and the loss of one or more key customers. The Company may seek additional capital; however, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in raising additional capital if the need arises. The failure to raise any necessary additional capital on acceptable terms, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are a small company in a highly competitive industry. Competition from other medical device companies, diversified healthcare companies and research and academic institutions is intense and expected to increase. Many companies engaged in the medical device sector have substantially greater financial and other resources and development capabilities than we do, and have substantially greater experience in testing products, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing, marketing, and distributing medical devices. Other companies may succeed in developing and commercializing products earlier than we do. In addition to competing with universities and other research institutions in the development of products, technologies and processes, the Company may compete with other companies in acquiring rights to products or technologies from universities. Also, the medical device market is experiencing increasing customer concentration, due to the emergence of large purchasing groups and hospital systems. We cannot assure you that we will develop products that are more effective or achieve greater market acceptance than competitive products, or that our competitors will not succeed in developing products and technologies that are more effective than those being developed by us or that would render our products and technologies less competitive or obsolete. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully sell to large purchasing groups, which are increasingly looking to suppliers that can provide a broader range of products than we currently offer. Our business is impacted by customer concentration. Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 30% and 36% of revenues in 2013 and 2012, respectively. Among these customers, Physio-Control, Inc. accounted for 9% and 11% of revenues during 2013 and 2012, respectively. Also included above are sales to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (“V.A.”). When aggregating sales to the individual V.A. hospitals, those sales accounted for 8% and 18% of overall sales for 2013 and 2012, respectively. The Company has a blanket agreement with the V.A. for the purchase of its vital signs monitors through February 2015. The loss of any significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. - 14 - We are devoting substantial resources to the development and marketing of our tissue oximetry products. We expect to devote a significant amount of resources to continue the development and marketing of our FORE-SIGHT tissue oximetry products. We believe that substantial additional resources are required to further penetrate the markets for these products. Such investments include further research and development, including significant expenditures for clinical studies, equipment for placements at customer sites, further expansion of our selling organization, marketing expenditures and general working capital requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in these endeavors. In addition, since we have limited financial resources, our emphasis on FORE-SIGHT tissue oximetry products may result in a lack of sufficient resources for our other product lines, which may negatively impact our overall financial results. The sale of our products may result in significant product liability exposure. As a manufacturer of medical diagnostic equipment, we face product liability claims. We maintain product liability insurance in an aggregate amount of $5 million. We cannot assure you that this insurance coverage will be adequate to cover any product liability claims that occur in the future or that product liability insurance will continue to be available at reasonable prices. Any product liability judgments or settlements in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected if we cannot protect our proprietary technology or if we infringe on the proprietary technology of others. Our proprietary technology aids our ability to compete effectively with other companies in certain markets in which we compete. Although we have been awarded, have filed applications for, or have been licensed under numerous patents, these patents may not fully protect our technology or competitive position. Further, our competitors may apply for and obtain patents that will restrict our ability to make and sell our products. Our competitors may intentionally infringe our patents. Third parties may also assert infringement claims against us. Litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us, to protect our trade secrets or know-how, to defend ourselves against claimed infringement of the rights of others or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. The defense and prosecution of patent suits are both costly and time-consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. Such proceedings can be extremely expensive and their outcome very unpredictable. An adverse outcome in the defense of a patent suit could cause us to lose proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities to third parties or require us to license rights from third parties or to cease selling our products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology that others may independently develop or otherwise obtain access to. Our inability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies could negatively affect our revenues and earnings. Cost-containment efforts of our customers, purchasing groups, third-party payors, and governmental organizations could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Many existing and potential customers for our products within the United States have become members of group purchase organizations (GPOs) and integrated delivery networks (IDNs), in an effort to reduce costs. GPOs and IDNs negotiate pricing arrangements with healthcare product manufacturers and distributors and offer the negotiated prices to affiliated hospitals and other members. GPOs and IDNs typically award contracts on a category-by-category basis through a competitive bidding process. Bids are generally solicited from multiple manufacturers with the intention of driving down pricing. Due to the highly competitive nature of the GPO and IDN contracting processes, we may not be able to obtain or maintain contract positions with major GPOs and IDNs across our product portfolio. Furthermore, the increasing leverage of organized buying groups may reduce market prices for our products, thereby reducing our profitability. - 15 - While having a contract with a GPO or IDN for a given product category can facilitate sales to members of that GPO or IDN, such contract positions can offer no assurance that sales volumes of those products will be maintained. GPOs and IDNs increasingly are awarding contracts to multiple suppliers for the same product category. Even when we are the sole contracted supplier of a GPO or IDN for a certain product category, members of the GPO or IDN generally are free to purchase from other suppliers. Furthermore, GPO and IDN contracts typically are terminable without cause upon 60 to 90 days’ notice. Accordingly, the members of such groups may choose to purchase from our competitors due to the price or quality offered by such competitors, which could result in a decline in our sales and profitability. Distributors of our products also have begun to negotiate terms of sale more aggressively to increase their profitability. Failure to negotiate distribution arrangements having advantageous pricing and other terms of sale could cause us to lose market share and would adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Outside the United States, we have experienced pricing pressure from centralized governmental healthcare authorities and increased efforts by such authorities to lower healthcare costs. We frequently are required to engage in competitive bidding for the sale of our products to governmental purchasing agents. Our failure to offer acceptable prices to these customers could adversely affect our sales and profitability in these markets. Defects or failures associated with our products could lead to recalls or safety alerts and negative publicity. Manufacturing flaws, component failures, design defects, off-label uses, or inadequate disclosure of product-related information could result in an unsafe condition or the injury or death of a patient. These problems could lead to a recall of, or issuance of a safety alert relating to, our products and result in significant costs and negative publicity. Due to the strong name recognition of our brands, an adverse event involving one of our products could result in reduced market acceptance and demand for all products within that brand, and could harm our reputation and our ability to market our products in the future. In some circumstances, adverse events arising from or associated with the design, manufacture, or marketing of our products could result in the suspension or delay of regulatory reviews of our applications for new product approvals. We also may undertake a voluntary recall of products or temporarily shut down production lines based on performance relative to our own internal safety and quality monitoring and testing data. Any of the foregoing problems could disrupt our business and have a material effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We depend on distributors for a substantial portion of our revenues. Failure to establish and maintain relationships with distributors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We depend on distributors for a substantial percentage of our revenues. Certain of our distribution agreements may contain terms that are not favorable to us, and as our existing distribution agreements expire, we may be unable to renew with our desired distributors on favorable terms or at all. In addition, we seek to limit our dependence on any single distributor by limiting and periodically redefining the scope of each distributor’s territory and the range of our products that it sells, which may make us less attractive to some distributors. Furthermore, competition for distributors is intense. We compete for distributors domestically and internationally with other leading medical equipment and device companies that may have higher visibility, greater name recognition and financial resources, and a broader product selection than we do. Our competitors also often enter into long-term distribution agreements that effectively prevent their distributors from selling our products. At times, we may also become engaged in contract disputes or other negotiations with distributors. Consequently, establishing relationships with new distributors, maintaining relationships with existing distributors, and replacing distributors may be difficult and time consuming. Any disruption of our distribution network, including our failure to renew distribution agreements at favorable terms or our failure to successfully negotiate contract disputes, could negatively affect our ability to effectively sell our products and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we are unable to effectively structure and manage our distribution network, actions taken by our distributors could harm our corporate image and cause us to fail to meet our sales goals. We have limited ability to manage the activities of our distributors, who are independent from us. Our distributors could take one or more of the following actions, some of which we have previously experienced, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, and brand: - 16 - ● sell products that compete with products that they have contracted to sell for us; ● sell our products outside of our pricing guidelines, distorting the market price of our products; ● sell our products outside their designated territory or to non-authorized end-users, possibly in violation of the exclusive distribution rights of other distributors; ● directly or indirectly distribute products lacking necessary U.S. certifications into the U.S. market in violation of applicable U.S. law; ● fail to adequately promote our products; and/or ● fail to provide proper training, repair and service to our end-users. Furthermore, our distributors may focus selling efforts only on those products that provide them with the largest margins at the expense of products that offer them smaller margins. Failure to adequately manage our distribution network or non-compliance by distributors with our distribution agreements could harm our corporate image among end-users of our products and disrupt our sales, resulting in a failure to meet our sales goals. Our direct sales operations are costly, and the related ongoing operational costs could have a material adverse effect on our business. We maintain direct operations in the United States and rely on direct sales for a significant portion of our revenues from the United States. Maintaining a direct sales force is costly. In the United States, we typically provide our direct operations personnel with payroll and other benefits that we do not provide independent distributors. Many of these benefits are fixed costs that do not depend on revenue generation. Maintaining these direct operations is costly and ongoing operational costs could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to significant government regulation. Our business is subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in which we operate. In the United States, our products are subject to regulation as medical devices by the FDA, and by other federal and state agencies. These regulations pertain to the manufacturing, labeling, development and testing of our devices as well as to the maintenance of required records. An FDA regulation also requires prompt reporting by all medical device manufacturers of an event or malfunction involving a medical device where the device caused or contributed to death or serious injury or is likely to do so. Federal law provides for several routes by which the FDA reviews medical devices before their entry into the marketplace. Medical products of the type currently being marketed and under development by us are subject to regulation under the FD&C Act and numerous acts and amendments such as the Quality System Regulations which replaced the regulations formerly called Good Manufacturing Practices. In addition, depending upon product type, we must also comply with those regulations governing the Conduct of Human Investigations, Pre-Market Regulations and other requirements, as promulgated by the FDA. The FDA is authorized to inspect a device, its labeling and advertising, and the facilities in which it is manufactured in order to ensure that the device is not manufactured or labeled in a manner which could cause it to be injurious to health. The FDA has adopted regulations which classify medical devices based upon the degree of regulation believed necessary to assure safety and efficacy. A device is classified as a Class I, II, or III device. Class I devices are subject only to general controls. Class II devices, in addition to general controls, are or will be subject to "performance standards." Most devices are also subject to the 510(k) pre-market notification provision. In addition, some Class III devices require FDA pre-market approval before they may be marketed commercially because their safety and effectiveness cannot be assured by the general controls and performance standards of Class I or II devices. Our products are primarily Class I and II devices and several of them have required FDA notification under Section 510(k) of the FD&C Act. Satisfaction of clearance or approval requirements may take up to several years or more and may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product. The effect of government regulation may be to delay marketing of new products for a considerable or indefinite period of time, to impose costly procedures upon our activities and to furnish a competitive advantage to larger companies that compete with us. We cannot assure you that FDA or other regulatory clearance or approval for any products we develop will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or, once granted, that clearances or approvals will not be withdrawn or other regulatory action taken which might limit our ability to market our proposed products. Any delay in obtaining or failure to obtain these clearances or approvals would adversely affect the manufacturing and marketing of our products and the ability to generate additional product revenue. The FDA also has the authority to, among other things, deny marketing approval until all regulatory protocols are deemed acceptable, halt the shipment of defective products, and seize defective products sold to customers. Adverse action or publicity from the FDA, if any, could have a negative impact upon our results from operations. - 17 - Federal regulatory reforms may adversely affect our ability to successfully market our products and impact our financial condition. Recent federal efforts to reform the U.S. health care industry have resulted in legislation such as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“Affordable Care Act”) and other measures which will effect changes in healthcare delivery and coverage and public and private reimbursements for services performed. Federal initiatives may also affect state programs. Legislative changes may affect hospital market expenditures for medical devices, the type and volume of procedures performed, and the demand for new and innovative products. These changes could be significant and may adversely affect the demand for our products, our results of operations, cash flows, and our overall financial condition. The Affordable Care Act provisions are funded by a variety of taxes including a medical device excise tax (“MDET”) of 2.3% imposed on manufacturers and importers of certain medical devices. The Company became subject to the MDET effective January 1, 2013. MDET expenses were $302,000 for 2013. Outside of the U.S., healthcare delivery and reimbursement systems vary by country. Efforts to control rising healthcare costs, changes in government sponsored programs and participation and various other economic factors may impact our ability to successfully market our products outside of the U.S. Our products may become rapidly obsolete. The areas in which we are developing, distributing, and/or licensing products involve rapidly developing technology. Others may develop products that might cause products being developed, distributed or licensed by us to become obsolete or uneconomical or result in products superior to our products. Our international business is subject to currency, regulatory, and related risks. Our international sales subject us to currency and related risks. We expect that international sales will continue to constitute a significant portion of our business. Although we sell our products in United States dollars and only have limited currency risks, an increase in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies in our international markets could make our products less price competitive in these markets. Our international sales accounted for 22% and 23% of our total net sales for the 2013 and 2012 fiscal years, respectively. Our business practices in countries other than the United States are governed by U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as local laws and regulatory schemes. While we believe we maintain a robust compliance program requiring adherence by our employees and distribution partners to all U.S. and foreign laws and regulatory schemes, there can be no assurances that our foreign distribution partners so comply, which failure could cause the Company to suffer the loss of the ability to sell in those jurisdictions or other liability. An acquisition of the company may be hindered. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue from time to time, without stockholder authorization, shares of preferred stock, in one or more designated series or classes. We are also subject to a Delaware statute regulating business combinations. These provisions could discourage, hinder or preclude an unsolicited acquisition of the Company and could make it less likely that stockholders receive a premium for their shares as a result of any takeover attempt. - 18 - We have outstanding shares of preferred stock with rights and preferences superior to those of our common stock. The issued and outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series A Exchangeable Preferred Stock grant the holders of such preferred stock anti-dilution, voting, accretion, dividend and liquidation rights that are superior to those held by the holders of our common stock. In addition, should we issue, or be deemed to issue, certain additional shares of common stock for a price below $2.389 per share, as amended, the conversion price of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series A Exchangeable Preferred Stock shall be lowered based on a weighted average formula, which will have the effect of immediately diluting the holders of our common stock. Ownership of our shares is concentrated in the hands of a few investors which could limit the ability of our other stockholders to influence the direction of the company. As calculated by SEC rules of beneficial ownership, Thomas, McNerney & Partners and their affiliates, and Deerfield Management Company, L.P. each beneficially owned approximately 27.9% and 16.5%, respectively, of our common stock as of the dates of their most recent public filings with the SEC. Accordingly, although they are not affiliated with one another, they collectively may have the ability to significantly influence or determine the election of all of our directors or the outcome of most corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. They may exercise this ability in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of our other stockholders. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market originally issued through the conversion of preferred stock, exercise of options or warrants, or additional financing transactions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and would have a dilutive effect upon our stockholders. Historically, our common stock has been thinly traded. This low trading volume may have had a significant effect on the market price of our common stock, which may not be indicative of the market price in a more liquid market. As of December 31, 2013, options and warrants for the purchase of 3,371,616 shares of our common stock were outstanding and 7,517,093 shares of common stock were issuable upon conversion of our outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series A Exchangeable Preferred Stock. We depend highly on certain key management personnel. We believe that our future success will depend to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management, in particular, Thomas Patton, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Brian Wagner, our Chief Commercial Officer, Dr. Paul Benni, our Chief Scientific Officer, Dr. John Gamelin, our Vice President of Research and Development, and Jeffery Baird, our Chief Financial Officer. The loss of the services of these executives could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We do not expect to pay cash dividends. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since inception, and at this time we do not anticipate that we will pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Furthermore, we are currently precluded from issuing dividends on our common stock unless we receive the consent of holders of a majority of our outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series A Exchangeable Preferred Stock. With regard to dividends issuable on our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series A Exchangeable Preferred Stock, a holder must issue a written request to the Company by June 15th of 2011, 2012, or 2013 to receive cash dividends for the applicable succeeding four fiscal quarters ending June 30th, September 30th, December 31st, and March 31st. The holders have elected in writing not to receive cash dividends for the fiscal quarters through June 30, 2013. Further, the holders have irrevocably waived their cash dividend rights for the four fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2014, in accordance with the Company’s agreement with East West Bank executed on July 31, 2012. The bank agreement prohibits the payment of cash dividends. The holders’ waiver of their cash dividend rights for the four fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2014, may be revoked if the Company’s obligations to East West Bank are terminated at any time prior to June 30, 2014. As of December 31, 2013, $2,958,335 in accretion had accumulated on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and the Series A Exchangeable Preferred Stock. - 19 - Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 