Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. You should consider the following risks, as well as the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K before deciding to invest in our common stock. We have a recent history of net losses and are subject to risks regarding future liquidity. We have experienced operating losses during our last five fiscal years. The net loss applicable to common stockholders was $8,432,000 for the 2012 calendar year and the accumulated deficit was $13,066,000 as of December 31, 2012. The Company does not anticipate a return to operating profits in the near term and there can be no assurance that we will be able to improve our results of operations in the near term or at all. The Company’s ordinary short-term capital needs are expected to be met from our current cash on hand and amounts available under our Loan Agreement with East West Bank. Cash flows may be impacted by a number of factors, including changing market conditions, market acceptance of the FORE-SIGHT system, and the loss of one or more key customers. The Company may seek additional capital; however, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in raising additional capital if the need arises. The failure to raise any necessary additional capital on acceptable terms, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are a small company in a highly competitive industry. Competition from other medical device companies, diversified healthcare companies and research and academic institutions is intense and expected to increase. Many companies engaged in the medical device sector have substantially greater financial and other resources and development capabilities than we do, and have substantially greater experience in testing products, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing, marketing, and distributing medical devices. Other companies may succeed in developing and commercializing products earlier than we do. In addition to competing with universities and other research institutions in the development of products, technologies and processes, the Company may compete with other companies in acquiring rights to products or technologies from universities. Also, the medical device market is experiencing increasing customer concentration, due to the emergence of large purchasing groups and hospital systems. We cannot assure you that we will develop products that are more effective or achieve greater market acceptance than competitive products, or that our competitors will not succeed in developing products and technologies that are more effective than those being developed by us or that would render our products and technologies less competitive or obsolete. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully sell to large purchasing groups, which are increasingly looking to suppliers that can provide a broader range of products than we currently offer. - 14 - Our business is impacted by customer concentration. Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 36% and 41% of revenues in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Among these customers, Physio-Control, Inc. accounted for 11% of revenues during both 2012 and 2011. Also included above are sales to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (“V.A.”). When aggregating sales to the individual V.A. hospitals, those sales accounted for 18% of overall sales for both 2012 and 2011. The Company has a blanket agreement with the V.A. for the purchase of its vital signs monitors through February 2015. The loss of any significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We are devoting substantial resources to the development and marketing of our tissue oximetry products. We expect to devote a significant amount of resources to continue the development and marketing of our FORE-SIGHT tissue oximetry products. We believe that substantial additional resources are required to further penetrate the markets for these products. Such investments include further research and development, including significant expenditures for clinical studies, equipment for placements at customer sites, further expansion of our selling organization, marketing expenditures and general working capital requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in these endeavors. In addition, since we have limited financial resources, our emphasis on FORE-SIGHT tissue oximetry products may result in a lack of sufficient resources for our other product lines, which may negatively impact our overall financial results. The sale of our products may result in significant product liability exposure. As a manufacturer of medical diagnostic equipment, we face product liability claims. We maintain product liability insurance in an aggregate amount of $5 million. We cannot assure you that this insurance coverage will be adequate to cover any product liability claims that occur in the future or that product liability insurance will continue to be available at reasonable prices. Any product liability judgments or settlements in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected if we cannot protect our proprietary technology or if we infringe on the proprietary technology of others. Our proprietary technology aids our ability to compete effectively with other companies in certain markets in which we compete. Although we have been awarded, have filed applications for, or have been licensed under numerous patents, these patents may not fully protect our technology or competitive position. Further, our competitors may apply for and obtain patents that will restrict our ability to make and sell our products. Our competitors may intentionally infringe our patents. Third parties may also assert infringement claims against us. Litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us, to protect our trade secrets or know-how, to defend ourselves against claimed infringement of the rights of others or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. The defense and prosecution of patent suits are both costly and time-consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. Such proceedings can be extremely expensive and their outcome very unpredictable. An adverse outcome in the defense of a patent suit could cause us to lose proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities to third parties or require us to license rights from third parties or to cease selling our products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology that others may independently develop or otherwise obtain access to. Our inability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies could negatively affect our revenues and earnings. - 15 - We are subject to significant government regulation. Our business is subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in which we operate. In the United States, our products are subject to regulation as medical devices by the FDA, and by other federal and state agencies. These regulations pertain to the manufacturing, labeling, development and testing of our devices as well as to the maintenance of required records. An FDA regulation also requires prompt reporting by all medical device manufacturers of an event or malfunction involving a medical device where the device caused or contributed to death or serious injury or is likely to do so. Federal law provides for several routes by which the FDA reviews medical devices before their entry into the marketplace. Medical products of the type currently being marketed and under development by us are subject to regulation under the FD&C Act and numerous acts and amendments such as the Quality System Regulations which replaced the regulations formerly called Good Manufacturing Practices. In addition, depending upon product type, we must also comply with those regulations governing the Conduct of Human Investigations, Pre-Market Regulations and other requirements, as promulgated by the FDA. The FDA is authorized to inspect a device, its labeling and advertising, and the facilities in which it is manufactured in order to ensure that the device is not manufactured or labeled in a manner which could cause it to be injurious to health. The FDA has adopted regulations which classify medical devices based upon the degree of regulation believed necessary to assure safety and efficacy. A device is classified as a Class I, II, or III device. Class I devices are subject only to general controls. Class II devices, in addition to general controls, are or will be subject to "performance standards." Most devices are also subject to the 510(k) pre-market notification provision. In addition, some Class III devices require FDA pre-market approval before they may be marketed commercially because their safety and effectiveness cannot be assured by the general controls and performance standards of Class I or II devices. Our products are primarily Class I and II devices and several of them have required FDA notification under Section 510(k) of the FD&C Act. Satisfaction of clearance or approval requirements may take up to several years or more and may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product. The effect of government regulation may be to delay marketing of new products for a considerable or indefinite period of time, to impose costly procedures upon our activities and to furnish a competitive advantage to larger companies that compete with us. We cannot assure you that FDA or other regulatory clearance or approval for any products we develop will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or, once granted, that clearances or approvals will not be withdrawn or other regulatory action taken which might limit our ability to market our proposed products. Any delay in obtaining or failure to obtain these clearances or approvals would adversely affect the manufacturing and marketing of our products and the ability to generate additional product revenue. The FDA also has the authority to, among other things, deny marketing approval until all regulatory protocols are deemed acceptable, halt the shipment of defective products, and seize defective products sold to customers. Adverse action or publicity from the FDA, if any, could have a negative impact upon our results from operations. Federal regulatory reforms may adversely affect our ability to successfully market our products and impact our financial condition. Recent federal efforts to reform the U.S. health care industry have resulted in legislation such as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“Affordable Care Act”) and other measures which will effect changes in healthcare delivery and coverage, and public and private reimbursements for services performed. Federal initiatives may also affect state programs. Legislative changes may affect hospital market expenditures for medical devices, the type and volume of procedures performed, and the demand for new and innovative products. These changes could be significant and may adversely affect the demand for our products, our results of operations, cash flows and our overall financial condition. The Affordable Care Act provisions are funded by a variety of taxes including a medical device excise tax of 2.3% imposed on manufacturers and importers of certain medical devices. The Company is subject to the medical device excise tax effective January 1, 2013. The Company estimates that had the tax been in effect since January 1, 2012, the Company would have paid approximately $315,000 in taxes for the 2012 fiscal year. Outside of the U.S., healthcare delivery and reimbursement systems vary by country. Efforts to control rising healthcare costs, changes in government sponsored programs and participation and various other economic factors may impact our ability to successfully market our products outside of the U.S. - 16 - Our products may become rapidly obsolete. The areas in which we are developing, distributing, and/or licensing products involve rapidly developing technology. Others may develop products that might cause products being developed, distributed or licensed by us to become obsolete or uneconomical or result in products superior to our products. We are subject to currency and related risks. Our international sales subject us to currency and related risks. We expect that international sales will continue to constitute a significant portion of our business. Although we sell our products in United States dollars and are not subject to significant currency risks, an increase in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies in our international markets could make our products less price competitive in these markets. Our international sales accounted for 23% and 25% of our total net sales for the 2012 and 2011 fiscal years, respectively. An acquisition of the company may be hindered. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue from time to time, without stockholder authorization, shares of preferred stock, in one or more designated series or classes. We are also subject to a Delaware statute regulating business combinations. These provisions could discourage, hinder or preclude an unsolicited acquisition of the Company and could make it less likely that stockholders receive a premium for their shares as a result of any takeover attempt. We have issued outstanding shares of preferred stock with rights and preferences superior to those of our common stock. The issued and outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series A Exchangeable Preferred Stock grant the holders of such preferred stock anti-dilution, voting, accretion, dividend and liquidation rights that are superior to those held by the holders of our common stock. In addition, should we issue, or be deemed to issue, certain additional shares of common stock for a price below $2.82 per share, the conversion price of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series A Exchangeable Preferred Stock shall be lowered based on a weighted average formula, which will have the effect of immediately diluting the holders of our common stock. Ownership of our shares is concentrated in the hands of a few investors which could limit the ability of our other stockholders to influence the direction of the company. As calculated by SEC rules of beneficial ownership, Thomas, McNerney & Partners and their affiliates, and BMI Capital Corporation each beneficially owned approximately 30.3% and 14.9%, respectively, of our common stock on an as converted basis as of the dates of their most recent public filings with the SEC. Accordingly, although they are not affiliated with one another, they collectively may have the ability to significantly influence or determine the election of all of our directors or the outcome of most corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. They may exercise this ability in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of our other stockholders. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market originally issued through the conversion of preferred stock, exercise of options or warrants, or additional financing transactions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and would have a dilutive effect upon our shareholders. Historically, our common stock has been thinly traded. This low trading volume may have had a significant effect on the market price of our common stock, which may not be indicative of the market price in a more liquid market. As of December 31, 2012, options and warrants for the purchase of 3,029,859 shares of our common stock were outstanding and 5,941,270 shares of common stock were issuable upon conversion of our outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series A Exchangeable Preferred Stock. - 17 - We depend highly on certain key management personnel. We believe that our future success will depend to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management, in particular, Thomas Patton, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Matthew Herwig, our Vice President of Sales and Marketing, Dr. Paul Benni, our Chief Scientific Officer, Dr. John Gamelin, our Vice President of Research and Development, and Jeffery Baird, our Chief Financial Officer. The loss of the services of these executives could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We do not expect to pay cash dividends. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since inception, and at this time we do not anticipate that we will pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Furthermore, we are currently precluded from issuing dividends on our common stock unless we receive the consent of holders of a majority of our outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Series A Exchangeable Preferred Stock. With regard to dividends issuable on our Series A Preferred Stock and Series A Exchangeable Preferred Stock, a holder must issue a written request to the Company by June 15th of 2011, 2012, or 2013 to receive cash dividends for the applicable succeeding four fiscal quarters ending June 30th, September 30th, December 31st, and March 31st. The holders have elected in writing not to receive cash dividends for the fiscal quarters through June 30, 2013. Further, the holders have irrevocably waived their cash dividend rights for the four fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2014, in accordance with the Company’s agreement with East West Bank executed on July 31, 2012. The bank agreement prohibits the payment of cash dividends. The holders’ waiver of their cash dividend rights for the four fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2014, may be revoked if the Company’s obligations to East West Bank are terminated at any time prior to June 30, 2014. As of December 31, 2012, $1,754,381 in accretion had accumulated on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series A Exchangeable Preferred Stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 