Item 1A. Risk Factors - --------------------- Our business faces many risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. You should consider the following risks, as well as the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K before deciding to invest in our common stock. WE ARE A SMALL COMPANY IN A HIGHLY COMPETITIVE INDUSTRY We are engaged in a rapidly evolving field. Competition from other medical device companies, diversified healthcare companies and research and academic institutions is intense and expected to increase. Many companies engaged in the medical device sector have substantially greater financial and other resources and development capabilities than we do, and have substantially greater experience in testing of products, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing medical devices. Therefore, our competitors may succeed in obtaining approval for products more rapidly than we can. Other companies may succeed in developing and commercializing products earlier than we do. In addition to competing with universities and other research institutions in the development of products, technologies and processes, the Company may compete with other companies in acquiring rights to products or technologies from universities. Also, the medical device market is experiencing increasing Page 12 customer concentration, due to the emergence of large purchasing groups. We cannot assure you that we will develop products that are more effective or achieve greater market acceptance than competitive products, or that our competitors will not succeed in developing products and technologies that are more effective than those being developed by us or that would render our products and technologies less competitive or obsolete. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully sell to large purchasing groups, which are increasingly looking to suppliers that can provide a broader range of products than we currently offer. WE ARE DEVOTING SUBSTANTIAL RESOURCES TO THE DEVELOPMENT AND MARKETING OF OUR CEREBRAL OXIMETRY PRODUCTS We expect to devote a significant amount of resources to continue the development and marketing of our Fore-Sight Cerebral Oximetry products. We believe that substantial resources are required to further our opportunity in the markets for these products. Such investments include further research and development, including significant expenditures for clinical studies, manufacturing equipment, sales and marketing expenditures and general working capital requirements. There are no assurances that we will be successful in these endeavors. THE SALE OF OUR PRODUCTS MAY RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT PRODUCT LIABILITY EXPOSURE As a manufacturer of medical diagnostic equipment, we could face product liability claims. We maintain product liability insurance in an aggregate amount of $5 million. We cannot assure you that this insurance coverage will be adequate to cover any product liability claims that occur in the future or that product liability insurance will continue to be available at reasonable prices. Any product liability judgments or settlements in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. WE ARE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT GOVERNMENT REGULATION Our business is subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in which we operate. In the United States, our products are subject to regulation as medical devices by the United States Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA"), and by other federal and state agencies. These regulations pertain to the manufacturing, labeling, development and testing of our devices as well as to the maintenance of required records. An FDA regulation also requires prompt reporting by all medical device manufacturers of an event or malfunction involving a medical device where the device caused or contributed to death or serious injury or is likely to do so. Federal law provides for several routes by which the FDA reviews medical devices before their entry into the marketplace. Medical products of the type currently being marketed and under development by us are subject to regulation under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the "FDC Act") and numerous acts and amendments such as the Quality System Regulations which replaced the regulations formerly called Good Manufacturing Practices. In addition, depending upon product type, we must also comply with those regulations governing the Conduct of Human Investigations, Pre-Market Approval Regulations and other requirements, as promulgated by the FDA. The FDA is authorized to inspect a device, its labeling and advertising, and the facilities in which it is manufactured in order to ensure that the device is not manufactured or labeled in a manner which could cause it to be injurious to health. The FDA has adopted regulations which classify medical devices based upon the degree of regulation believed necessary to assure safety and efficacy. A device is classified as a Class I, II, or III device. Class I devices are subject only to general controls. Class II devices, in addition to general controls, are or will be subject to "performance standards." Most devices are also subject to the 510(k) pre-market notification provision. In addition, some Class III devices require FDA pre-market approval before they may be marketed commercially because their safety and effectiveness cannot be assured by the general controls and performance standards of Class I or II devices. Our products are primarily Class I and II devices and several of them have required FDA notification under Section 510(k) of the FDC Act. Satisfaction of clearance or approval requirements may take up to several years or more and may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product. The effect of government regulation may be to delay marketing of new products for a considerable or indefinite period of time, to impose costly procedures upon our activities and to furnish a competitive advantage to larger companies that compete with us. We cannot assure you that FDA or other regulatory clearance or approval for any products we develop will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or, once granted, that clearances or approvals will not be withdrawn or other regulatory action taken which Page 13 might limit our ability to market our proposed products. Any delay in obtaining or failure to obtain these clearances or approvals would adversely affect the manufacturing and marketing of our products and the ability to generate additional product revenue. WE RELY TO A SIGNIFICANT DEGREE ON OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks and non-disclosure agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We cannot assure you that our patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or that any patents owned by us now or in the future will afford protection against competitors that develop similar technology. We also cannot assure you that our non-disclosure agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information. Moreover, in the absence of patent protection, our business may be adversely affected by competitors who independently develop substantially equivalent or superior technology. It is possible that we may need to acquire licenses to, or to contest the validity of, issued or pending patents of third parties relating to our technology or to products presently marketed or under development by us. In addition, we cannot assure that any license required under any patent would be made available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we would prevail in any patent litigation. OUR PRODUCTS MAY BECOME RAPIDLY OBSOLETE The areas in which we are developing, distributing, and/or licensing products involve rapidly developing technology. Others may develop products that might cause products being developed, distributed or licensed by us to become obsolete or uneconomical or result in products superior to our products. Our international sales subject us to currency and related risks. Our international sales accounted for 23% of our total net sales for the 2007 fiscal year. We expect that international sales will continue to constitute a significant portion of our business. Although we sell our products in United States dollars and are not subject to significant currency risks, an increase in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies in our international markets could make our products less price competitive in these markets. AN ACQUISITION OF CAS MEDICAL SYSTEMS MAY BE HINDERED Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue from time to time, without stockholder authorization, shares of preferred stock, in one or more designated series or classes. We are also subject to a Delaware statute regulating business combinations. These provisions could discourage, hinder or preclude an unsolicited acquisition of CAS Medical Systems, Inc. and could make it less likely that stockholders receive a premium for their shares as a result of any takeover attempt. SALES OF A SUBSTANTIAL NUMBER OF SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK IN THE PUBLIC MARKET ORIGINALLY ISSUED THROUGH THE EXERCISE OF OPTIONS OR WARRANTS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK AND MAY ALSO ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL As of December 31, 2007, options and warrants for the purchase of 1,586,826 shares of our common stock are outstanding. Historically, our common stock has been thinly traded. This low trading volume may have had a significant effect on the market price of our common stock, which may not be indicative of the market price in a more liquid market. WE DEPEND HIGHLY ON CERTAIN KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL We believe that our future success will depend to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management, in particular, Andrew Kersey, our President and Chief Executive Officer and Jeffery Baird, our Chief Financial Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Kersey or Mr. Baird could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Page 14 WE DO NOT EXPECT TO PAY CASH DIVIDENDS We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since inception, and at this time we do not anticipate that we will pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments - ---------------------------------- None. 