Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. You should consider the following risks, as well as the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K before deciding to invest in our common stock. We Are Subject To Risks Related To Future Liquidity Our ordinary capital needs are expected to be met from a combination of cash flows from operations and borrowings under our line-of-credit agreement. Future cash flows, however, may be impacted by a number of factors, including changing market conditions, market acceptance of the FORE-SIGHT system, changes in payment terms to one or more major suppliers, loss of one or more key customers, or failure to meet financial covenants under our current or any future loan agreement. We believe that our current levels of working capital and available debt financing are insufficient to fund major growth initiatives, such as significant increases in our sales and marketing personnel, or material acquisitions. Any major growth initiatives would require us to seek other sources or forms of debt or equity capital. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in securing such funding for major initiatives. Any issuance of equity or equity-linked securities would dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. We Are a Small Company In A Highly Competitive Industry Competition from other medical device companies, diversified healthcare companies and research and academic institutions is intense and expected to increase. Many companies engaged in the medical device sector have substantially greater financial and other resources and development capabilities than we do, and have substantially greater experience in testing of products, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing medical devices. Therefore, our competitors may succeed in obtaining approval for products more rapidly than we can. Other companies may succeed in developing and commercializing products earlier than we do. In addition to competing with universities and other research institutions in the development of products, technologies and processes, the Company may compete with other companies in acquiring rights to products or technologies from universities. Also, the medical device market is experiencing increasing customer concentration, due to the emergence of large purchasing groups. We cannot assure you that we will develop products that are more effective or achieve greater market acceptance than competitive products, or that our competitors will not succeed in developing products and technologies that are more effective than those being developed by us or that would render our products and technologies less competitive or obsolete. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully sell to large purchasing groups, which are increasingly looking to suppliers that can provide a broader range of products than we currently offer. Page 12 Our Business Is Impacted By Customer Concentration. Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 31%, 26%, and 33% of revenues in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Among these customers, Medtronic, Inc., customarily the Company’s largest customer, accounted for 11% of revenues during both 2008 and 2006. During 2007, no customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s revenues. During January 2007, Medtronic announced a voluntary suspension of U.S. product shipments from its Physio-Control division. Despite strong sales to Medtronic during the latter six months of 2007, overall sales to Medtronic for 2007 decreased approximately $1,510,000 from 2006 and represented approximately 7% of overall revenues. The loss of one or more of the major customers noted above could result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, our cash flows and results of operations. The Recent Global Economic Crisis Has Had And May Continue To Have A Negative Effect On Our Business And Operations The recent global economic crisis has caused, among other things, lower business spending, which has had and is expected to continue to have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. Many of our customers and suppliers have been affected by the current economic turmoil. Current or potential customers and suppliers may no longer be in business, may be unable to fund purchases or determine to reduce purchases, all of which has led and is expected to continue to lead to reduced demand for our products and increased customer payment delays. Further, suppliers may not be able to supply us with needed components on a timely basis, may increase prices or go out of business, which could result in our inability to met customer demand or affect our gross margins. The timing and nature of any recovery in the economy remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future or that our results will not be materially and adversely affected. Such conditions make it very difficult to forecast operating results, make business decisions and identify and address material business risks. We Are Devoting Substantial Resources To The Development And Marketing Of Our Cerebral Oximetry Products We expect to devote a significant amount of resources to continue the development and marketing of our FORE-SIGHT cerebral oximetry products. We believe that substantial resources are required to further our opportunity in the markets for these products. Such investments include further research and development, including significant expenditures for clinical studies, manufacturing equipment, further expansion of a direct sales force, marketing expenditures and general working capital requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in these endeavors. The Sale Of Our Products May Result In Significant Product Liability Exposure As a manufacturer of medical diagnostic equipment, we could face product liability claims. We maintain product liability insurance in an aggregate amount of $5 million. We cannot assure you that this insurance coverage will be adequate to cover any product liability claims that occur in the future or that product liability insurance will continue to be available at reasonable prices. We are currently a defendant in a product liability action which is scheduled for trial during mid-2009. We believe that our product liability insurance is sufficient to cover any damages and costs that are likely with respect to this matter. Any product liability judgments or settlements in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our Business Could Be Adversely Affected If We Cannot Protect Our Proprietary Technology Or If We Infringe On The Proprietary Technology Of Others. Our proprietary technology aids our ability to compete effectively with other companies in certain markets in which we compete. Although we have been awarded, have filed applications for, or have been licensed under numerous patents, these patents may not fully protect our technology or competitive position. Further, our competitors may apply for and obtain patents that will restrict our ability to make and sell our products. Our competitors may intentionally infringe our patents. Third parties may also assert infringement claims against us in the future. Litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us, to protect our trade secrets or know-how, to defend ourselves against claimed infringement of the rights of others or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. The defense and prosecution of patent suits are both costly and time-consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. Such proceedings can be extremely expensive and their outcome very unpredictable. An adverse outcome in the defense of a patent suit could cause us to lose proprietary rights, subject us to significant Page 13 liabilities to third parties or require us to license rights from third parties or to cease selling our products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology that others may independently develop or otherwise obtain access to. Our inability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies could negatively affect our revenues and earnings. We Are Subject To Significant Government Regulation Our business is subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in which we operate. In the United States, our products are subject to regulation as medical devices by the FDA, and by other federal and state agencies. These regulations pertain to the manufacturing, labeling, development and testing of our devices as well as to the maintenance of required records. An FDA regulation also requires prompt reporting by all medical device manufacturers of an event or malfunction involving a medical device where the device caused or contributed to death or serious injury or is likely to do so. Federal law provides for several routes by which the FDA reviews medical devices before their entry into the marketplace. Medical products of the type currently being marketed and under development by us are subject to regulation under the FD&C Act and numerous acts and amendments such as the Quality System Regulations which replaced the regulations formerly called Good Manufacturing Practices. In addition, depending upon product type, we must also comply with those regulations governing the Conduct of Human Investigations, Pre-Market Regulations and other requirements, as promulgated by the FDA. The FDA is authorized to inspect a device, its labeling and advertising, and the facilities in which it is manufactured in order to ensure that the device is not manufactured or labeled in a manner which could cause it to be injurious to health. The FDA has adopted regulations which classify medical devices based upon the degree of regulation believed necessary to assure safety and efficacy. A device is classified as a Class I, II, or III device. Class I devices are subject only to general controls. Class II devices, in addition to general controls, are or will be subject to “performance standards.” Most devices are also subject to the 510(k) pre-market notification provision. In addition, some Class III devices require FDA pre-market approval before they may be marketed commercially because their safety and effectiveness cannot be assured by the general controls and performance standards of Class I or II devices. Our products are primarily Class I and II devices and several of them have required FDA notification under Section 510(k) of the FD&C Act. Satisfaction of clearance or approval requirements may take up to several years or more and may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product. The effect of government regulation may be to delay marketing of new products for a considerable or indefinite period of time, to impose costly procedures upon our activities and to furnish a competitive advantage to larger companies that compete with us. We cannot assure you that FDA or other regulatory clearance or approval for any products we develop will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, or, once granted, that clearances or approvals will not be withdrawn or other regulatory action taken which might limit our ability to market our proposed products. Any delay in obtaining or failure to obtain these clearances or approvals would adversely affect the manufacturing and marketing of our products and the ability to generate additional product revenue. We Rely To A Significant Degree On Our Proprietary Rights We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks and non-disclosure agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We cannot assure you that our patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or that any patents owned by us now or in the future will afford protection against competitors that develop similar technology. We also cannot assure you that our non-disclosure agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information. Moreover, in the absence of patent protection, our business may be adversely affected by competitors who independently develop substantially equivalent or superior technology. It is possible that we may need to acquire licenses to, or to contest the validity of, issued or pending patents of third parties relating to our technology or to products presently marketed or under development by us. In addition, we cannot assure that any license required under any patent would be made available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we would prevail in any patent litigation. Page 14 We Are Party To An Arbitration Proceeding On May 8, 2007, the Company signed an exclusive distribution agreement (the “Agreement”) with Analogic Corporation (“Analogic”) under which the Company obtained worldwide exclusive rights to market the Analogic Lifegard® family of non-invasive patient monitors. Under the Agreement, Analogic would co-brand the devices and reconfigure its Lifegard II monitor to include the Company’s MAXNIBP branded non-invasive blood pressure and other branded technologies. Accordingly, the Company would reimburse Analogic approximately $900,000 upon meeting agreed milestone dates for such efforts. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had made payments to Analogic of $90,000. On November 24, 2008, Analogic commenced arbitration against the Company contending that the Company breached the Agreement. Analogic is seeking damages of approximately $765,000 for costs it allegedly incurred in performing under the Agreement including winding down costs and additional remedies which may provide for relief totaling double or treble damages, in addition to attorney fees. The Company denies Analogic’s claims and is asserting a counterclaim for damages in excess of those sought by Analogic. The arbitration hearing is expected to be conducted in the second quarter of 2009. There can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of this proceeding. During 2008, the Company recorded sales of Analogic products of $2,173,000. Our Products May Become Rapidly Obsolete The areas in which we are developing, distributing, and/or licensing products involve rapidly developing technology. Others may develop products that might cause products being developed, distributed or licensed by us to become obsolete or uneconomical or result in products superior to our products. Our international sales subject us to currency and related risks. Our international sales accounted for 26% of our total net sales for the 2008 fiscal year. We expect that international sales will continue to constitute a significant portion of our business. Although we sell our products in United States dollars and are not subject to significant currency risks, an increase in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies in our international markets could make our products less price competitive in these markets. An Acquisition Of The Company May Be Hindered Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue from time to time, without stockholder authorization, shares of preferred stock, in one or more designated series or classes. We are also subject to a Delaware statute regulating business combinations. These provisions could discourage, hinder or preclude an unsolicited acquisition of the Company and could make it less likely that stockholders receive a premium for their shares as a result of any takeover attempt. Sales Of A Substantial Number Of Shares Of Our Common Stock In The Public Market Originally Issued Through The Exercise Of Options Or Warrants Could Adversely Affect The Market Price Of Our Common Stock And May Also Adversely Affect Our Ability To Raise Additional Capital As of December 31, 2008, options and warrants for the purchase of 1,654,526 shares of our common stock were outstanding. Historically, our common stock has been thinly traded. This low trading volume may have had a significant effect on the market price of our common stock, which may not be indicative of the market price in a more liquid market. We Depend Highly On Certain Key Management Personnel We believe that our future success will depend to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management, in particular, Andrew Kersey, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Jeffery Baird, our Chief Financial Officer. The loss of the services of Messrs. Kersey or Baird could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Page 15 We Do Not Expect To Pay Cash Dividends We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since inception, and at this time we do not anticipate that we will pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 