Item 1A. Risk Factors. A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or risks we currently consider immaterial, could also affect our business. If we are unable to successfully execute our strategic initiatives and business development efforts, our future productivity and profitability may be adversely affected. We are currently undertaking a series of strategic initiatives and business development efforts designed to make Longs a stronger competitor and more profitable company. These initiatives and efforts address several core elements of our operations, including our supply chain, front-end sales, pharmacy profitability, prescription drug plan business, customer service and operational processes. Our ability to successfully implement these changes, which are significant to our operations and business, is critical to our future profitability. If we are not successful, we may not achieve the expected benefits from these initiatives and efforts, despite having expended significant capital and human effort. Furthermore, we may encounter difficulties implementing this amount of change in our organization that could have a negative impact on our implementation plans and project budgets. Changes in economic conditions could adversely affect consumer buying practices and reduce our revenues and profitability. Our performance is affected by economic conditions such as overall economic growth and unemployment, especially in California, our primary market. Recently, slowing economic growth, rising sub-prime mortgage 6 Table of Contents defaults and a related tightening of credit markets, and higher gasoline prices have had a significant impact on consumer spending in our markets. Deterioration in economic conditions, particularly in California, could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. For example, an increase in unemployment could cause consumers to lose their health insurance, which could in turn adversely affect our pharmacy sales. Further, a decrease in overall consumer spending as a result of changes in economic conditions could adversely affect our front-end sales and profitability. The retail drug store industry is highly competitive and further increases in competition in our markets could adversely affect us. We face intense and growing competition with local, regional and national companies, including other drug store chains, independent drug stores, on-line retailers, supermarket chains and mass merchandisers, many of which are aggressively expanding in markets we serve. In addition, competition from mail order pharmacies is growing, and some third-party health plans require mail order fulfillment of certain medications. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources, including name recognition and capital resources, than we do. Some of these competitors may offer our key products, including prescription drugs, at prices below or near cost in order to gain market share and increase sales of other products they offer. The nature and extent of consolidation in the retail drug store and pharmacy benefit services industries could also affect our competitive position. As competition increases in the markets in which we operate, a significant increase in general pricing pressures could occur, which could require us to reduce prices, purchase more effectively and increase customer service to remain competitive. We may not be able to continue to compete effectively in our markets or increase our revenues or margins in response to further increased competition. The pharmacy benefit services industry has become increasingly competitive, and this competition could impair our ability to attract and retain clients, which could adversely affect our business Our ability to maintain growth rates in our pharmacy benefit services business is dependent upon our ability to attract new clients and retain existing clients. Some of our competitors may offer services and pricing terms we may not be able to offer. Our contracts with clients generally do not have terms longer than three years and, in some cases, are terminable by the client on relatively short notice. In addition, a relatively small number of contracts account for a significant portion of our total pharmacy benefit management profitability. This competition may make it difficult for us to attract new clients and retain existing profitable clients, which could materially adversely affect our business and financial results. Over the last several years, competition in the marketplace has also caused many pharmacy benefit services companies, including us, to reduce the prices charged to clients for core services and share a larger portion of the formulary fees and related revenues received from pharmaceutical manufacturers with clients. This combination of lower pricing and increased revenue sharing, as well as increased demand for enhanced service offerings and higher service levels, has put pressure on operating margins. This pressure may continue, and we can give no assurance new services provided to clients will fully compensate for these reduced margins. We believe the managed care industry is undergoing substantial consolidation, and another party that is not our client could acquire some of our managed care clients. In such case, the likelihood such client would renew its contract with us, as opposed to one of our competitors, could be reduced. Reductions in third-party, including government, reimbursement levels for prescription drugs continue to impact our gross margins on pharmacy sales and could have a significant effect on our retail drug store sales and gross profits. Third-party health plans cover more than 90% of all the prescription drugs that we sell. Pharmacy sales covered by third parties have lower gross margins than non-third-party pharmacy sales, and third-party health plans continue to reduce the levels at which they reimburse us for the prescription drugs that we provide to their members. Furthermore, government-sponsored health plans such as Medicare and Medicaid are making 7 Table of Contents continuing efforts to reduce their costs, including prescription drug reimbursements, and the new Medicare prescription drug benefit resulted in lower reimbursement levels for prescription drugs provided to Medicare participants. In particular, increased utilization of generic pharmaceuticals (which normally yield a higher gross profit rate than equivalent brand named drugs) has resulted in pressure to decrease reimbursement payments to pharmacies for generic drugs, causing a reduction in generic profit margins. If third-party health plans, including government-sponsored plans, continue to reduce their reimbursement levels, our retail drug store sales and gross profits could be significantly adversely affected. Changes in industry pricing benchmarks could adversely affect our financial performance. Contracts in the prescription drug industry, including our contracts with third-party payors and pharmacy benefit management clients, generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription drugs. These benchmarks include average wholesale price (“AWP”) and wholesale acquisition cost (“WAC”). Recent events have raised uncertainties as to whether third-party payors, prescription benefit management providers and others in the prescription drug industry will continue to utilize AWP as it has previously been calculated or whether other pricing benchmarks, such as average manufacturer price (“AMP”), will be adopted for establishing prices within the industry. In certain circumstances, AMP may be below our prescription drug acquisition cost. We believe that third-party payors and prescription benefit management providers will begin to evaluate other pricing benchmarks as the basis for contracting for prescription drugs and benefit management services in the future. Changes to industry pricing benchmarks may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, results of operations and financial condition in future periods. The significant investments we are making in our stores may not increase our retail drug store profitability, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have recently made and are continuing to make significant investments in our retail drug stores in an effort to increase our sales and profitability. These investments include the construction of drive-through pharmacies, pharmacy and other technology, installation of new digital photo equipment, and remodels and other improvements to some existing stores. Some of these investments require significant capital expenditures and human effort. We are uncertain about consumer reaction to these changes and therefore these investments may not result in increased sales and profitability. A failure to increase our retail drug store sales and profitability would adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our ability to grow our business may be constrained by our inability to find suitable new store locations at acceptable prices or by the expiration of our current leases. Our ability to grow our business may be constrained if suitable new store locations cannot be identified with lease terms or purchase prices that are acceptable to us. We compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. Local land use and other regulations applicable to the types of stores we desire to construct may impact our ability to find suitable locations and influence the cost of constructing our stores. The expiration of leases at existing highly profitable store locations may adversely affect us if the renewal terms of those leases are unacceptable to us, or are not available for renewal due to owner/developer plans for the property, and we are forced to close or relocate stores. We may incur significant costs in connection with the closing of stores. As we have in the past, we may close stores if we deem such a decision to be warranted and we can do so on what we determine is a cost effective basis. In fiscal 2008, we approved a plan to dispose of 31 stores, including all of the 23 stores located in Washington, Oregon and Colorado and eight stores in California. We may choose to close additional stores in the future. Closures may occur prior to lease expiration in which case we may be unable to assign such leases in a manner that allows us to avoid store lease costs. We may also incur costs associated with severance and related benefits for affected employees. These costs may be partially offset by proceeds from the disposition of owned properties and pharmacy prescription files. In addition, upon natural expiration of our leases we may be unable to find suitable locations nearby that allow us to retain the customer base we have developed. 8 Table of Contents Our failure to effectively manage new store openings could lower our sales and profitability. Our growth strategy is largely dependent upon opening new stores and operating them profitably. Our ability to open new stores and operate them profitably depends upon a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control. These factors include: • the ability to identify new store locations, negotiate suitable leases and build out the stores in a timely and cost efficient manner; • the ability to hire and train skilled pharmacists and other employees; • the ability to integrate new stores into our existing operations and leverage existing infrastructure; and • the ability to increase sales at new store locations. Our growth will also depend on our ability to process increased merchandise volume resulting from new store openings through our inventory management systems and distribution facilities in a timely manner. If we fail to manage new store openings in a timely and cost efficient manner, our growth may decrease. If our insurance-related costs increase significantly, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. The costs of many types of insurance and self-insurance, especially workers’ compensation, employee health care and others, have been highly volatile in recent years. These conditions have been exacerbated by rising health care costs, legislative changes, economic conditions, terrorism and heightened scrutiny of insurance brokers and insurance providers. If our insurance-related costs increase significantly, or we are unable to renew our insurance policies or protect against all the business risks facing us, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are substantially dependent on a single supplier of pharmaceutical products to sell products to us on satisfactory terms. A disruption in our relationship with this supplier could have a material adverse effect on our business. We purchase over 90% of our pharmaceuticals from a single supplier, AmerisourceBergen, with whom we have a long-term supply contract. Any significant disruptions in our relationship with AmerisourceBergen, deterioration in AmerisourceBergen’s financial condition, or industry-wide changes in wholesaler business practices, including those of AmerisourceBergen, could have a material adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that we would be able to find a replacement supplier on a timely basis or that such supplier would be able to fulfill our demands on similar terms, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our ability to attract and retain pharmacy personnel and develop alternate fill sources is important to the continued success of our business. The retail drug store industry is continuing to experience a shortage of licensed pharmacists in the markets in which we operate. If we are unable to attract and retain pharmacists, our business could be adversely affected. In order to mitigate this risk we have established centralized prescription fill centers and have also installed robotic prescription fill equipment in many of our pharmacies. The success of these efforts is important to our ability to address the shortage of pharmacists, but additional efforts may be necessary to address this business issue. Additional investment may be costly, and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are subject to governmental regulations, procedures and requirements. Our noncompliance with, or a significant change in, these regulations could have a material adverse effect on us. Our retail drug store and pharmacy benefit services businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations, many of which are new and developing. These include, but are not limited to, local 9 Table of Contents registrations and regulation of pharmacies in the states where our pharmacies are located or licensed, Medicare and Medicaid regulations applicable to our retail pharmacy and pharmacy benefit services businesses, state labor laws and regulations, and the requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, regarding the protection of confidential patient medical records and other information. We are also subject to various state insurance laws and regulations in connection with our prescription drug plan business. Failure to adhere to these and other applicable regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties. Furthermore, any new federal or state regulations or reforms, including healthcare reform initiatives or pharmacy benefit management regulation, could adversely affect us. Should a product liability issue arise, inadequate insurance coverage against such risks or inability to maintain such insurance may result in a material adverse effect on our business. Pharmacies are exposed to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other healthcare products, including with respect to improper filling of prescriptions, labeling of prescriptions and adequacy of warnings, and are significantly dependent upon suppliers to provide safe, government-approved and non-counterfeit products. We also sell a variety of non-pharmaceutical products that we purchase from a large number of suppliers, including some who operate in foreign countries, which could become subject to contamination, product tampering, mislabeling or other damage, or could otherwise fail to meet the various food and consumer health safety requirements under which we operate. While we maintain reasonable quality assurance practices, no program can provide complete assurance that a product liability issue will not arise. Should a product liability issue arise, the coverage limits under our insurance programs may not be adequate to protect us against future claims. In addition, we may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms in the future. Damage to our reputation in the event of a product liability issue could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Reestablishing any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly. Our geographic concentration in the western United States presents certain risks that could adversely affect us. Our stores, mail order pharmacy operations, distribution centers and corporate offices are located in the western United States, with the majority of our stores in California. Risks prevalent in this region include, but are not limited to, the adverse economic effects of significant state budget deficits, a significant planned reduction in state Medicaid pharmacy reimbursements, further legislative or other governmental actions reducing prescription reimbursement payments to us, significant new or increased income or property tax, or increasing our liability with respect to workers’ compensation, major earthquakes, volatility in energy supplies and costs, and shipping and other transportation-related disruptions. Because of our geographic concentration, these risks could result in significant disruptions to our business or increased operating expenses. In addition, we rely primarily on two centralized distribution centers, both in California, to ship most of our non-prescription products to our stores. If either distribution center was destroyed or shut down for any reason, we would incur significantly higher costs and delays associated with distribution of products during the time it takes us to reopen or replace the centers. An adverse trend in sales during the cold and flu, allergy and/or holiday seasons could have a disproportionate effect on our operating results for the year. Our business, like that of many retailers, is seasonal, with the major portion of our sales and operating profit realized during the fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the main holiday selling season and as well as the winter cold and flu season. As a result, our results for the entire year tend to be disproportionately dependant on the performance in the fourth quarter. The strength of the holiday selling season and the severity of the cold and flu season vary considerably each year. Seasonal variability could lead to unexpected and materially adverse effects on our results of operations. 10 Table of Contents The success of our business depends on maintaining a well-secured technology infrastructure. We are dependent on our infrastructure, including our information systems, for many aspects of our business operations. A fundamental requirement for our business is the secure storage and transmission of personal health information and other confidential data. Our business and operations may be harmed if we do not maintain our business processes and information systems, and the integrity of our confidential information. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect information against security breaches, failure to protect such information or mitigate any such breaches may adversely affect our operations. Malfunctions in our business processes, breaches of our information systems or the failure to maintain effective and up-to-date information systems could disrupt our business operations, result in customer and member disputes, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation, result in regulatory violations, increase administrative expenses or lead to other adverse consequences. The availability of pharmacy drugs is subject to governmental regulations. The continued conversion of various prescription drugs to over-the-counter medications may reduce our pharmacy sales and customers may seek to purchase such medications at non-pharmacy stores. Also, if the rate at which new prescription drugs become available slows or if new prescription drugs that are introduced into the market fail to achieve popularity, our pharmacy sales may be adversely affected. We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment and other litigation. Certain of these legal proceedings, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our financial condition and results of operations. We discuss certain legal proceedings to which we are a party in greater detail under the caption “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” If our prescription drug plans do not generate the anticipated revenues or profitability or if we do not retain our plan members, our financial results could be adversely affected. Effective January 1, 2006, through our pharmacy benefit management subsidiary, we began offering prescription drug plans that provide prescription drug benefits under the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003. Because this is a relatively new federally subsidized benefit and is subject to annual bidding, it is difficult to predict the revenues and profitability of these plans and the timing of the related cash flows. If the revenues we generate from providing these benefits are not sufficient to cover the related prescription drug costs, if we are unable to successfully control our gross drug costs, or if the timing of our prescription drug expenditures and related subsidy payments from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) differ significantly from our projections, our profitability and cash flows will be adversely affected. CMS performs an annual reconciliation of prescription drug expenditures and their related subsidy payments to prescription drug plan sponsors subsequent to each calendar plan year. If the outcome of this reconciliation process is significantly different than our current estimates, our financial results for this business could be adversely affected. Furthermore, these plans are subject to annual bidding and regulatory approval and the majority of our enrollees are “dual-eligible” (qualified for both Medicare and Medicaid coverage) who are automatically assigned to providers based on the outcome of the annual bidding process. If our annual bid is not successful, or if Congress were to change or eliminate the plans, our profitability could be adversely affected. If RxAmerica does not become fully licensed as a risk bearing entity, our ability to offer prescription drug plans will be adversely affected. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 requires prescription drug plan sponsors to ultimately be licensed under state law as a risk-bearing entity, such as an insurer or health maintenance organization, eligible to offer health insurance or health benefits coverage in each state in which the applicant offers a prescription drug plan. We recently acquired a “shell” insurance company in connection with our plans to satisfy the licensure requirements. For the 2009 plan year and forward, in accordance with the federal 11 Table of Contents statutory mandate, the insurance company will provide the Medicare prescription drug plans. Our ability to offer prescription drug plans in the future may be adversely affected if the insurance company is not fully operational and successful in its bids to CMS for 2009. Furthermore, while many state insurance laws are well-established, CMS continues to provide new guidance in an attempt to assist sponsors and state regulators in determining the appropriate applicability of state insurance laws in the context of the prescription drug plans. Uncertainty as to the applicability of state and federal laws could have an impact on RxAmerica’s ability to successfully offer products and services under the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003. If RxAmerica loses relationships with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers or if the payments made or rebates provided by pharmaceutical manufacturers decline, its business and financial results could be adversely affected RxAmerica maintains contractual relationships with numerous pharmaceutical manufacturers that may provide it with, among other things: • rebates based upon sales of drugs through pharmacies in its retail networks; and • administrative fees for managing rebate programs, including the development and maintenance of formularies which include the particular manufacturer’s products. In addition, formulary fee programs have been the subject of debate in federal and state legislatures and various other public and governmental forums. Changes in existing laws or regulations or in interpretations of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations relating to any of these programs may materially adversely affect the operating results of RxAmerica. If RxAmerica loses relationships with one or more key pharmacy providers, or its relationship is modified in an unfavorable manner, our business could be impaired RxAmerica’s contracts with retail pharmacies, which are non-exclusive, are generally terminable on relatively short notice by either party. If one or more of the other top pharmacy chains elects to terminate its relationship with RxAmerica, or attempts to renegotiate the terms of the relationship in a manner that is unfavorable to it, members’ access to retail pharmacies and the RxAmerica business could be materially adversely affected. The continued growth of PBMs owned by the competing pharmacy chains, or the acquisition of significant PBM operations by such chains could increase the likelihood of our relationships with such pharmacy chains being adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 