Item 1A. Risk Factors A number of factors, which affect our future prospects, are important to an overall understanding of our Company and business. The following items are particularly noteworthy, although we do not represent that the list captures every possible existing or foreseeable factor or risk. 7 Table of Contents The communications industry is becoming increasingly competitive, and this competition has resulted and most likely will continue to result in higher levels of customer turnover than previously experienced as well as pricing pressures on our service offerings. As discussed in more detail under the headings “Competitive Environment” and “Other Products/Services” in Item 1 above in this Form 10-K, the markets in which we operate are growing increasingly competitive. We still maintain a level of protection in our ILEC territory against intra-modal competition. Over the past several years, though, we have faced a high level of inter-modal competition from wireless carriers. Although historically being more a competitor in the toll market, wireless carriers are now competing more aggressively against our secondary and even primary lines. In addition, we have recently seen competition intensify in our ILEC market as the two cable companies that overlap the majority of our incumbent market have recently launched and are heavily promoting their telecommunications offerings. The toll market has continued to be extremely competitive and we would expect this trend to continue into the foreseeable future, especially driven by the unlimited calling packages promoted by the wireless, cable and independent VoIP competitors. The broadband market is also very competitive, with cable companies having offerings that compete very aggressively with our DSL and higher broadband circuits. Wireless carriers are also continuing to upgrade their networks and have begun to offer broadband products that compete with our DSL product. Many of our competitors are major communications companies that have more extensive resources. We compete in our various markets with telephone companies such as Verizon, Embarq and other national CLECs, cable companies that include Comcast and Armstrong, and all the major wireless and interexchange carriers. All of these companies have substantially greater financial and marketing resources, as well as greater name recognition than the Company. In addition, given their financial resources and scale, these companies may be able to devote more capital to newer technologies and/or use their cost advantages to reduce prices for an extended period of time. We are subject to a complex and uncertain regulatory environment. The amounts that we charge for most of our services are subject to regulatory oversight at both the federal and state levels. Our business plans are also greatly affected by complex (and highly litigated) laws and regulations pertaining to competitive requirements in the markets in which we operate, such as regulatory barriers to entry for non-facilities based competitors in our ILEC territory and rules relating to both the availability and pricing of leased network elements in our edge-out territories. We expect that the competitive barriers to entry in our ILEC territory will continue to be reduced. With regard to the network elements that we utilize in our edge-out territories, any material negative changes in the availability or pricing of such network elements could have a material impact on our financial condition and future business plans. Approximately 27% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 came from charges paid to us from other carriers for services which we performed in originating and terminating toll and local traffic (access revenues) and from proceeds which we received from state and federal universal service funds. Our access rates are subject to regulation and reviews at both the federal and state levels. There are currently a number of formal and informal proceedings reviewing both the current access compensation structure and also the current rules regarding the contribution methodology and eligibility requirements of the universal service funds. One of the proposals being developed by some of the larger companies in the communications industry, which would seek a migration to a bill and keep intercarrier compensation mechanism, could have a material negative impact on our financial results and condition if adequate carve-outs are not made for rural carriers to support the high cost of providing services in rural communities. In addition, any substantive modifications to the availability of, or ability to recover costs from, federal and state universal service funds could have a material negative impact on our financial results and condition. 8 Table of Contents As a result of the expansion of our customer base in our CLEC edge-out markets, the increases experienced in broadband revenues, and several revenue neutral rate rebalancings that our ILEC made in 2005 and 2004 (which rebalancings have increased end-user charges while decreasing access rates), the percentage of our consolidated revenues which we receive from the above-mentioned access charges and universal service funds (27% for 2006) decreased from 29%, 31% and 35% of our consolidated revenues for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Although our exposure to these revenue sources has declined over the past several years, those revenue sources still constitute a material percentage of our total revenues and operating margins. In addition, newer technologies, such as VoIP, have been introduced since the passage of the 1996 Act. Many of these new technologies do not readily fit into the legacy telecommunications regulatory framework and are causing regulators at both the federal and state levels to reconsider many of the basic assumptions in regard to public policy and regulation of the telecommunications industry. The FCC has issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking proceeding to examine the regulatory treatment of VoIP. In the interim, the FCC and individual states have been ruling on narrow issues concerning VoIP and other access issues on a case-by-case basis. No comprehensive regulatory framework encompassing these issues has yet been established. The FCC’s final rules, or an extended period of regulatory uncertainty during which carriers might refuse to pay portions of their applicable access charges, might detrimentally affect our future access revenues. Another example of the complexity of certain regulations and uncertainty of interpretations of such regulations by regulatory bodies is a current claim that Verizon and its affiliated companies have made against Penn Telecom concerning the interpretation and implementation of a recent Pennsylvania statute that, among many of things, regulates the intrastate switched access rates of CLECs. Please refer to our discussion concerning this matter contained in Part 1, Item 3 (Legal Proceedings) of this Form 10-K. While it is currently advantageous for our North Pittsburgh subsidiary to be an average schedule company, its interstate revenues and earnings are subject to more volatility than those of comparable cost companies. North Pittsburgh participates in the interstate tariff and settlement pooling process that is administered by the National Exchange Carrier Association (NECA) as an average schedule company, which means North Pittsburgh’s interstate settlements are determined by formulas based on a statistical sampling of the allocation of costs to the interstate jurisdiction of comparable companies that perform cost studies. With respect to NECA’s average schedule formulas for the July 1, 2006 through June 30, 2007 period, NECA not only made changes to the average schedule formulas based on the normal projected changes in cost and demand for the July 1, 2006 through June 30, 2007 period but also implemented some structural changes to the formulas in order to more closely align average schedule company settlements to the companies’ estimated interstate revenue requirements based on statistical sampling. Although settlement rates for average schedule companies on an overall basis decreased by about 1.7% (assuming constant demand), some companies with larger study areas, such as North Pittsburgh, experienced a significant decrease in settlements, while many companies with smaller study areas experienced an increase. The new formulas also reflected the trend of reduced access minutes. Due to the significant decrease in interstate settlements that would be experienced by some companies because of these changes, the NECA filing recommended, and the FCC approved, a two-year phase in of the reduction in settlements resulting from the structural changes in the formulas. As a relatively large average schedule company, North Pittsburgh was affected by these reductions in settlements. The new formulas will cause a reduction of approximately $210 per month (or approximately $2.5 million annually) in North Pittsburgh’s interstate settlements when the reductions are fully phased in. The projected $210 per month reduction consists of two elements: an approximately $60 per month decrease related to the normal changes in the year-over-year overall average schedule formulas and an approximately $150 per month decrease related to the structural changes to the formulas. The $60 per month decrease that pertains to the 9 Table of Contents normal changes in the formulas resulted in an immediate decrease in settlement revenues effective July 1, 2006. Under the two-year phase in of the reduction in settlements approved by the FCC, the $150 per month decrease related to the structural changes has not been recognized in its entirety immediately; rather, that reduction will be phased in ratably over a twenty-four month period of time. On December 21, 2006, NECA filed with the FCC its annual proposed modifications of the average schedule formulas. In that filing, NECA proposed to revise the formulas for average schedule interstate settlement disbursements for interstate access services provided during the period July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2008. In this filing, NECA again not only proposed changes to the average schedule formulas based on the normal projected changes in cost and demand for the July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2008 period but also proposed some additional structural changes to the formulas in order to more closely align average schedule company settlements to the companies’ estimated interstate revenue requirements based on statistical sampling. In its filing, NECA estimated that settlement rates for all average schedule companies would decrease overall by about 7.27%, assuming constant demand; however, the individual impact on each average schedule company would depend on its size and demand characteristics, with the majority of companies experiencing a decrease in settlements in a range between 5% and 15%. According to NECA, the decreases reflect ongoing overall reduced cost levels of average schedule companies as well as decreases associated with structural changes to the Line Haul Distance Sensitive formula, which reimburses companies for the costs of transporting interstate calls. Due to the significant decrease in interstate settlements that would be experienced by some companies, the NECA filing, similar to the previous year’s filing, also recommended that the FCC consider implementing a two-year phase in of the reduction in settlements. The filing included a detailed procedure on how that phase-in might be accomplished. North Pittsburgh will be affected by these reductions in settlements. If approved, the proposed formulas will cause a reduction of approximately $100 per month (or approximately $1.2 million annually) in North Pittsburgh’s interstate settlements when the reductions are fully phased in. This estimated reduction is related solely to the proposed changes for the average schedule formulas proposed by NECA in its filing for the July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2008 period and is independent of the reduction in settlements already being experienced by North Pittsburgh from the average schedule formulas being phased in pursuant to NECA’s filing with respect to the July 1, 2006 through June 30, 2007 period (discussed above). The projected $100 per month reduction consists of two elements: an approximately $40 per month decrease related to the normal changes in the year-over-year overall average schedule formulas and an approximately $60 per month decrease related to the structural change to the Line Haul Distance Sensitive formula. Similar to the current phase-in plan, the $60 per month decrease related to the structural change would not be recognized in its entirety immediately; rather, the reduction would be phased in ratably over a twenty-four month period of time. Verizon and AT&T have filed comments with the FCC in opposition to the NECA proposed modification of the average schedule formulas for the July 1, 2007 to June 30, 2008 period, with both parties urging the FCC to reject the proposed transition plan. In addition to the comments on the proposed transition plan, Verizon further urged the FCC to require NECA to lower its member companies interstate access rates to rates that were equal to the rates charged by Verizon and other large price cap carriers. In summary, we can reasonably estimate that North Pittsburgh’s annual revenues realized through the NECA average schedule formulas will eventually decrease by approximately $3,700 on an annualized basis (assuming constant demand data) as a result of the changes made to the July 1, 2006 through June 30, 2007 average schedules already in effect and the proposed changes to the July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2008 average schedule formulas that are contained in the NECA filing currently in review by the FCC. Annual revenues for 10 Table of Contents 2006 have been impacted by approximately $450 of this expected decrease. The full impact of the changes in the current and proposed schedules will be realized starting July 1, 2009 (or July 1, 2008 if the proposed transition plan for the July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2008 average schedule formulas is not approved by the FCC). We continue to monitor whether or not it is advantageous for North Pittsburgh to participate in the NECA pool as an average schedule company or, alternatively, to become a cost company subject to its own individual cost and demand data studies. It is important to note, though, that as an average schedule company, North Pittsburgh’s interstate revenues and earnings can be subject to more volatility than those of comparable cost companies due to the lack of an exact relationship between the cost structure and demand data of an average schedule company such as North Pittsburgh and its ultimate settlement pursuant to average schedules. Our ability to grow will require investments in markets and products that may not achieve our desired returns. With the increased competition in our existing markets and pressures on profit margins, we may have to invest in markets and products that most likely will not generate the margins we have traditionally experienced in our core access line business in our ILEC territory. Access lines in our edge-out markets carry lower margins, mainly due to pricing discounts we offer from the incumbent’s rates, incremental costs we incur to lease some of the facilities we use and overall lower access rates that we charge to carriers using our network. In addition, some of the products that we have deployed over the last several years, such as DSL, have been introduced into already competitive environments that have lower overall margins than our traditional ILEC access lines. Some of these products, although producing a new source of revenue, have had detrimental impacts on other existing revenue streams (such as second lines which can be rendered redundant by DSL). Although we believe that we can continue to penetrate our current edge-out markets (which mostly encompass Pittsburgh and its surrounding communities), potential expansion into other markets, which may be needed to grow revenues, will most likely carry greater risk because our brand recognition will not be as strong and our network efficiencies may not be as great as we are currently experiencing in our existing edge-out markets. The technological life cycle of new products is also shorter than those experienced on traditional voice telephony services. Many investments in Time Division Multiplexing (TDM) voice services have lasted between 15 to 20 years, whereas investments in broadband, data and Internet Protocol (IP) based products have technological life spans of 3 to 9 years. This compression of technological life spans allows for a shorter period of time in which to realize revenues from these underlying investments, and therefore in many cases may decrease the overall rate of return on such investments. A lack of parity between us and our competitors concerning regulatory fees and assessments as well as taxation laws could adversely impact our ability to profitably compete. The telecommunications industry is one of the most heavily taxed in our country. When, in the past, telephone companies were monopolies, both federal and state agencies used telephone companies to impose onto individuals and businesses a multitude of taxes and regulatory assessments, including, but not limited to, federal excise taxes, gross receipts taxes, 911 recovery fees, universal service assessments, Pennsylvania relay service charges and state and local sales taxes (where applicable). Typically, such assessments and taxes can constitute 10% to 20% of the gross amount of a telephone bill, dependent upon the types of services purchased. We recognize no margin on these fees and taxes but rather serve as the pass through entity responsible for charging and collecting the fees and taxes from our end-user customers and remitting the monies collected to the taxing and regulatory authorities. As inter-modal competition continues to develop, companies which do not meet the traditional definitions of telecommunications carriers and/or offer services which do not neatly fit into the outdated regulatory definitions of such terms as communication services (that is, for example, a service that may instead be deemed an information service) have claimed and may continue to claim that they are not subject to some or all of the above-mentioned taxes and assessments. Unless regulators and taxing authorities change or clarify their rules and regulations to include such companies and services as being subject to such taxes and assessments or deregulate and exclude us from being subject to such taxes and assessments, the lack of parity will continue to adversely impact our ability to effectively compete on price. 11 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 