Item 1A. Risk Factors. A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or risks we currently consider immaterial, could also affect our business. If we are unable to successfully execute our strategic initiatives and business development efforts and the related organizational changes, our future productivity and profitability may be adversely affected. We are currently undertaking a series of strategic initiatives and business development efforts designed to make Longs a stronger competitor and more profitable company. These initiatives and efforts address several core elements of our operations, including our supply chain, front-end sales, pharmacy profitability, prescription drug plan business, customer service and operational processes, and involve significant organizational change. Such organizational changes are complex and could cause disruptions that could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our ability to successfully implement these changes, which are significant to our operations and business, is critical to our future profitability. If we are not successful, we may not achieve the expected benefits from these initiatives and efforts, despite having expended significant capital and human effort. Furthermore, we may encounter difficulties implementing this amount of change in our organization that could have a negative impact on our implementation plans and project budgets. If our efforts to increase self-distribution are not successful, our retail drug store sales and profitability could be adversely affected. We completed construction of an 800,000 square foot distribution facility for front-end merchandise in Patterson, California, during the second quarter of fiscal 2007. We have substantially completed the transition of 6 Table of Contents existing distribution operations to the new facility and have also begun to increase self-distribution of front-end merchandise through the Patterson facility. If we are unable to successfully transition hundreds of additional front-end vendors to direct supplier relationships, our supply chain could experience significant disruptions. Such disruptions could adversely affect our retail drug store sales and increase our cost of sales and operating and administrative expenses. If our prescription drug plans do not generate the anticipated revenues or profitability, our financial results could be adversely affected. Effective January 1, 2006, through our pharmacy benefit management subsidiary, we began offering prescription drug plans that provide prescription drug benefits under the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003. Because this is a new federally subsidized benefit, it is difficult to predict the revenues and profitability of this new business and the timing of the cash flows related to the new business. If the revenues we generate from providing these benefits are not sufficient to cover the related prescription drug costs, our profitability will be adversely affected. The Federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, are reviewing enrollment between and among Medicare prescription drug plans and state sponsored plans and expect to complete a final reconciliation of benefits and premiums for 2006 in the fall of 2007. If the outcome of this reconciliation process is significantly different than our current estimates, our financial results for this business could be adversely affected. Furthermore, these plans are subject to annual bidding and regulatory approval and the majority of our enrollees are “dual-eligible’ (qualified for both Medicare and Medicaid coverage) who are automatically assigned to providers based on the outcome of the annual bidding process. If there are changes in legislative, regulatory or competitive conditions, or if we were to lose our contract with CMS, our ability to continue to offer prescription drug plans or to generate profitable prescription drug plan revenues could be adversely affected. If RxAmerica does not become fully licensed as a risk bearing entity, our ability to offer prescription drug plans will be adversely affected. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 requires prescription drug plan sponsors to be licensed under state law as a risk-bearing entity, such as an insurer or health maintenance organization, eligible to offer health insurance or health benefits coverage in each state in which the applicant offers a prescription drug plan. RxAmerica has submitted applications to become a risk bearing entity in all 50 states and submitted applications for single state waivers to CMS on the basis of having submitted substantially complete licensing applications in all states. These waivers, however, are for a limited duration and generally expire within 36 months following submission. We have been evaluating alternatives for full licensure of RxAmerica, including potentially acquiring a “shell” insurance company. Our ability to offer prescription drug plans in the future may be adversely affected if RxAmerica is not fully licensed as a risk-bearing entity in a timely manner, including prior to submitting bids to CMS for 2008. Furthermore, while many state insurance laws are well-established, CMS continues to provide new guidance in an attempt to assist sponsors and state regulators in determining the appropriate applicability of state insurance laws in the context of the prescription drug plans. Uncertainty as to the applicability of state and federal laws could have an impact on RxAmerica’s ability to successfully offer products and services under the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003. Changes in economic conditions could adversely affect consumer buying practices and reduce our revenues and profitability. Our performance is affected by economic conditions such as overall economic growth and unemployment, especially in California, our primary market. Higher gasoline prices have also had a significant impact on consumer spending in our markets. Deterioration in economic conditions, particularly in California, could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. For example, an increase in unemployment could cause consumers to lose their health insurance, which could in turn adversely affect our pharmacy sales. Further, a decrease in overall consumer spending as a result of changes in economic conditions could adversely affect our front-end sales or profitability. 7 Table of Contents The retail drug store and pharmacy benefit services industries are highly competitive and further increases in competition could adversely affect us. We face intense competition with local, regional and national companies, including other drug store chains, independent drug stores, on-line retailers, supermarket chains and mass merchandisers, many of which are aggressively expanding in markets we serve. In addition, competition from mail order pharmacies is rapidly intensifying, and some third-party health plans require mail order fulfillment of certain medications. In the pharmacy benefit services industry, our competitors include large national and regional pharmacy benefit managers and insurance companies and managed care providers, some of which are owned by or have affiliations with our retail drug store competitors. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources, including name recognition and capital resources, than we do. Some of these competitors may offer our key products, including prescription drugs, at prices below or near cost in order to gain market share and increase sales of other products they offer. The nature and extent of consolidation in the retail drug store and pharmacy benefit services industries could also affect our competitive position. As competition increases in the markets in which we operate, a significant increase in general pricing pressures could occur, which could require us to reduce prices, purchase more effectively and increase customer service to remain competitive. We may not be able to continue to compete effectively in our markets or increase our revenues or margins in response to further increased competition. Reductions in third-party, including government, reimbursement levels for prescription drugs continue to reduce our gross margins on pharmacy sales and could have a significant effect on our retail drug store sales and gross profits. Third-party health plans cover more than 90% of all the prescription drugs that we sell. Pharmacy sales covered by third parties have lower gross margins than non-third-party pharmacy sales, and third-party health plans continue to reduce the levels at which they reimburse us for the prescription drugs that we provide to their members. Furthermore, government-sponsored health plans such as Medicare and Medicaid are making continuing efforts to reduce their costs, including prescription drug reimbursements, and the new Medicare prescription drug benefit resulted in lower reimbursement levels for prescription drugs provided to Medicare participants. If third-party health plans, including government-sponsored plans, continue to reduce their reimbursement levels, our retail drug store sales and gross profits could be significantly adversely affected. Changes in industry pricing benchmarks could adversely affect our financial performance. Contracts in the prescription drug industry, including our contracts with third-party payors and pharmacy benefit management clients, generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription drugs. These benchmarks include average wholesale price (“AWP”) and wholesale acquisition cost (“WAC”). Recent events have raised uncertainties as to whether third-party payors, prescription benefit management providers and others in the prescription drug industry will continue to utilize AWP as it has previously been calculated or whether other pricing benchmarks will be adopted for establishing prices within the industry. Specifically, in a proposed settlement, First Databank (“FDB”), one of the companies that reports data on prescription drug prices, has agreed to reduce the reported AWP of certain drugs and to stop reporting AWPs within two years. We cannot predict the outcome of this case, or, if the settlement is approved, the precise timing of any of the proposed AWP changes. In addition, other benchmarks such as average manufacturer price (“AMP”) have been proposed. Whatever the outcome of the FDB settlement, we believe that third-party payors and prescription benefit management providers, will begin to evaluate other pricing benchmarks as the basis for contracting for prescription drugs and benefit management services in the future. Due to these and other uncertainties, we can give no assurance that the short or long term impact of changes to industry pricing benchmarks will not have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, results of operations and financial condition in future periods. 8 Table of Contents The significant investments we are making in our stores may not increase our retail drug store sales and profitability, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have recently made and are continuing to make significant investments in our retail drug stores in an effort to increase our sales and profitability. These investments include the installation of new digital photo equipment, drive-through pharmacies, pharmacy and other technology, and remodels and other improvements to some existing stores. Some of these investments require significant capital expenditures and human effort. We are uncertain about consumer reaction to these changes and therefore these investments may not result in increased sales and profitability. A failure to increase our retail drug store sales and profitability would adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our ability to grow our business may be constrained by our inability to find suitable new store locations at acceptable prices or by the expiration of our current leases. Our ability to grow our business may be constrained if suitable new store locations cannot be identified with lease terms or purchase prices that are acceptable to us. We compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. Local land use and other regulations applicable to the types of stores we desire to construct may impact our ability to find suitable locations and influence the cost of constructing our stores. The expiration of leases at existing store locations may adversely affect us if the renewal terms of those leases are unacceptable to us and we are forced to close or relocate stores. If the net costs associated with our planned store closures are substantially higher than anticipated, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In February 2007, our board of directors approved a plan to dispose of 31 stores during fiscal 2008, including all of the 23 stores located in Washington, Oregon and Colorado and eight stores in California. As a result of these closures, we will incur costs associated with exiting the store locations, terminating leases or sub-leasing properties, and providing severance and related benefits to affected employees. These costs will be partially offset by proceeds from the disposition of owned properties and pharmacy customer lists. We currently estimate that the total pre-tax net costs associated with these closures will be approximately $16 million to $22 million. Actual costs will depend on the manner and timing of disposition of the related assets and the proceeds we are able to receive for such assets, and could vary materially from our estimates. If such costs are substantially higher than anticipated, we could incur significant additional costs and our earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected. If our insurance-related costs increase significantly, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. The costs of many types of insurance and self-insurance, especially workers’ compensation, employee health care and others, have been highly volatile in recent years. These conditions have been exacerbated by rising health care costs, legislative changes, economic conditions, terrorism and heightened scrutiny of insurance brokers and insurance providers. The State of California is also considering further changes to the state’s workers’ compensation laws that, if enacted, could adversely affect workers’ compensation costs in the state. If our insurance-related costs increase significantly, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are substantially dependent on a single supplier of pharmaceutical products to sell products to us on satisfactory terms. A disruption in our relationship with this supplier could have a material adverse effect on our business. We purchase over 90% of our pharmaceuticals from a single supplier, AmerisourceBergen, with whom we have a long-term supply contract. Any significant disruptions in our relationship with AmerisourceBergen, deterioration in AmerisourceBergen’s financial condition, or industry-wide changes in wholesaler business 9 Table of Contents practices, including those of AmerisourceBergen, could have a material adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that we would be able to find a replacement supplier on a timely basis or that such supplier would be able to fulfill our demands on similar terms, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our ability to attract and retain pharmacy personnel and develop alternate fill sources is important to the continued success of our business. The retail drug store industry is continuing to experience a shortage of licensed pharmacists in the markets in which we operate. If we are unable to attract and retain pharmacists, our business could be adversely affected. In order to mitigate this risk we have established centralized prescription fill centers and have also installed robotic prescription fill equipment in many of our pharmacies. The success of these efforts, which at this time is uncertain, is important to our ability to address the shortage of pharmacists, but additional efforts may be necessary to address this business issue. Additional investment may be costly, and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are subject to governmental regulations, procedures and requirements. Our noncompliance with, or a significant change in, these regulations could have a material adverse effect on us. Our retail drug store and pharmacy benefit services businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations, many of which are new and developing. These include, but are not limited to, local registrations and regulation of pharmacies in the states where our pharmacies are located or licensed, Medicare and Medicaid regulations applicable to our retail pharmacy and pharmacy benefit services businesses, and the requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, regarding the protection of confidential patient medical records and other information. In the future we may also be subject to various state insurance laws and regulations in connection with our prescription drug plan business. Failure to adhere to these and other applicable regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties. Furthermore, any new federal or state regulations or reforms, including healthcare reform initiatives or pharmacy benefit management regulation, could adversely affect us. Should a product liability issue arise, inadequate insurance coverage against such risks or inability to maintain such insurance may result in a material adverse effect on our business. Pharmacies are exposed to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other healthcare products, including with respect to improper filling of prescriptions, labeling of prescriptions and adequacy of warnings, and are significantly dependent upon suppliers to provide safe, government-approved and non-counterfeit products. In addition, products that we sell, including our private label products, could become subject to contamination, product tampering, mislabeling or other damage. Should a product liability issue arise, the coverage limits under our insurance programs may not be adequate to protect us against future claims. In addition, we may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms in the future. Damage to our reputation in the event of a product liability issue could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. Our geographic concentration in the western United States presents certain risks that could adversely affect us. Our stores, mail order pharmacy operations, distribution centers and corporate offices are located in the western United States, with the majority of our stores in California. Risks prevalent in this region include, but are not limited to, the adverse economic effects of significant state budget deficits, legislative or other governmental actions reducing prescription reimbursement payments to us or increasing our liability with respect to workers’ compensation, major earthquakes, volatility in energy supplies and costs, and shipping and other transportation-related disruptions. Because of our geographic concentration, these risks could result in significant disruptions to our business or increased operating expenses. 10 Table of Contents The availability of pharmacy drugs is subject to governmental regulations. The continued conversion of various prescription drugs to over-the-counter medications may reduce our pharmacy sales and customers may seek to purchase such medications at non-pharmacy stores. Also, if the rate at which new prescription drugs become available slows or if new prescription drugs that are introduced into the market fail to achieve popularity, our pharmacy sales may be adversely affected. We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment and other litigation. Certain of these legal proceedings, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our financial condition and results of operations. We discuss certain legal proceedings to which we are a party in greater detail under the caption “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 