Risk Factors The Company is subject to certain risks and an investment in the Company’s securities may involve risks due to the nature of the Company’s business and activities related to that business. In addition to the factors discussed below, please see the discussion under “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk.” These factors, along with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be considered in evaluating forward-looking statements, and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements. There Is a Limited Market for FNB Common Stock Although FNB United common stock is traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, the volume of trading has historically been limited, averaging a few thousand shares per day. Therefore, there can be no assurance that a holder of FNB United common stock who wishes to sell his or her shares would be able to do so immediately or at an acceptable price. 11 Table of Contents Certain Provisions of FNB United’s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws May Discourage Takeovers FNB United’s articles of incorporation and bylaws contain certain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage or may make more difficult or expensive a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by FNB United’s board of directors. In particular, FNB United’s articles of incorporation and bylaws: — classify its board of directors into three classes, so that shareholders elect only one-third of its board of directors each year. — permits FNB United’s board of directors to issue, without shareholder approval unless otherwise required by law, nonvoting preferred stock with such terms as the board may determine, and — require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of FNB United’s voting shares to approve major corporate transactions unless the transaction is approved by three-fourths of FNB United’s “disinterested” directors. These provisions of FNB United’s articles of incorporation and bylaws could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control, even though a majority of FNB United’s shareholders may consider such proposal desirable. Such provisions could also make it more difficult for third parties to remove and replace the members of FNB United’s board of directors. They may also inhibit increases in the trading price of FNB United’s common stock that could result from takeover attempts. Changes in Interest Rates May Have an Adverse Effect on FNB United’s Profitability FNB United’s earnings and financial condition are dependent to a large degree upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. The narrowing of the margin between interest rates earned on loans and investments and the interest rates paid on deposits and borrowings could adversely affect FNB United’s earnings and financial condition. FNB United can neither predict with certainty nor control changes in interest rates. These changes can occur at any time and are affected by many factors, including national, regional and local economic conditions and monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board. FNB United has ongoing policies and procedures designed to manage the risks associated with changes in market interest rates. Notwithstanding these policies and procedures, changes in interest rates may have an adverse effect on FNB United’s profitability. For example, high interest rates could adversely affect FNB United’s mortgage banking business because higher interest rates could cause customers to apply for fewer mortgages or mortgage refinancings. FNB United Faces Significant Operational Risk FNB United processes large volumes of transactions on a daily basis, exposing the company to numerous types of operational risk. Operational risk includes the risk of fraud or theft by employees or persons outside FNB United, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or recordkeeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems, and breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements. Negative public opinion can result from FNB United’s actual or alleged conduct in a variety of areas, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely FNB United’s ability to attract and retain customers and can expose it to litigation and regulatory action. Operational risk also includes potential legal actions that could arise from an operational deficiency or a as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards. 12 Table of Contents Because the nature of the banking business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are found and corrected. FNB United’s necessary reliance upon automated systems to record and process its transactions may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. FNB United may also be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (e.g., computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. FNB United May Experience Significant Competition in its Market Area, Which May Adversely Affect its Business The banking industry within FNB United’s marketing area is extremely competitive. In addition, FNB United competes with other providers of financial services, such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, insurance companies, finance companies, pension funds and brokerage houses and other money funds. Some of FNB United’s larger competitors include several large interstate financial holding companies that are among the largest in the nation and are headquartered in North Carolina. These companies have a significant presence in FNB United’s market area, have greater resources than FNB United, may have higher lending limits and may offer products and services not offered by FNB United. These institutions may be able to offer the same products and services at more competitive rates and prices. FNB United Is Vulnerable to the Economic Conditions within the Relatively Small Region in Which It Operates FNB United’s overall success is dependent in part on the general economic conditions within its market area, which extends from the central and southern Piedmont and Sandhills to the foothills and mountains of western North Carolina. An economic downturn in this fairly small geographic region that negatively affects FNB United’s customers could adversely affect FNB United. FNB United May Not Be Able to Successfully Integrate Bank or Nonbank Mergers and Acquisitions Difficulties may arise in the integration of the business and operations of bank holding companies, banks and other non-bank entities FNB United acquires and, as a result, FNB United may not be able to achieve the cost savings and synergies that it expects will result from such transactions. Achieving cost savings is dependent on consolidating certain operational and functional areas, eliminating duplicative positions and terminating certain agreements for outside services. Additional operational savings are dependent upon the integration of the acquired or merged entity’s businesses with FNB United or one of its subsidiaries, the conversion of core operating systems, data systems and products and the standardization of business practices. Complications or difficulties in the conversion of the core operating systems, data systems and products may result in the loss of customers, damage to FNB United’s reputation within the financial services industry, operational problems, one-time costs currently not anticipated or reduced cost savings resulting from such mergers or acquisitions. Annual cost savings in each such transaction may be materially less than anticipated if the holding company, bank merger or nonbank merger or acquisition is delayed unexpectedly, the integration of operations is delayed beyond what is anticipated or the conversion to a single data system is not accomplished on a timely basis. Difficulty in integrating an acquired company may cause FNB United not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence and/or other projected benefits from the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition (run-off), loss of key employees, disruption of FNB United’s businesses or the businesses of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect FNB United’s ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. 13 Table of Contents Other Risks There are risks and uncertainties relating to an investment in FNB United common stock or to economic conditions and regulatory matters generally that should affect other financial institutions in similar ways. These aspects are discussed under “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and “Regulation and Supervision” elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 