Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this report before making an investment decision with regard to our securities. There are numerous and varied risks, known and unknown, that may prevent us from achieving our goals, and the risks described below are not the only ones we will face. The risks below are intended to reflect the material risks that are specific to our Company, to our industry and to companies that seek to maintain a class of securities that is registered or traded on any exchange or over-the-counter market. Risks Relating to Our Business We depend upon a limited number of customers and contracts to generate revenue, and this concentration of customers and contracts may expose us to heightened financial exposure. Our business is a service business, and our revenue is generated from a limited number of customers. For instance, in 2009 and 2008 we derived 71% and 70% of our revenue, respectively, from services performed for Union Pacific, and we anticipate deriving a similar percentage of our revenue from Union Pacific in 2010. Although we have long-term agreements and relationships with that customer and certain other customers, the agreements may be terminated on short notice. Thus, our concentration of customers and contracts exposes us to greater financial risk than businesses with a broader customer base. A significant reduction in the number of contracts or the loss of a customer would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we rely on timely and regular payments from our customers on ordinary course business terms. The failure of our customers to pay on ordinary course business terms may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Our business is competitive and, as a service business, is based largely on long-term contracts and personal relationships, which makes it difficult for us to obtain new customers and contracts. The rail tie disposal and reclamation industry is competitive. Most companies have long-term contracts and long-standing relationships with their customers, which makes obtaining new business difficult. If we are unable to obtain new customers and contracts and expand into other geographic markets, growth of revenue and profitability could be slow or non-existent. We depend heavily upon highly skilled and knowledgeable management personnel. The railroad construction, rehabilitation and maintenance industry is a highly specialized one; therefore we depend significantly upon key management personnel. We cannot guarantee that these employees will not choose to terminate their employment. Similarly, we cannot guarantee that employees with employment agreements can be renegotiated upon expiration or that skilled individuals can be found to replace these employees. The loss of the services of one or more of these employees before we are able to attract and retain qualified replacement personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to substantial environmental and other government regulation, and failure to comply with these laws and obtain necessary permits and approvals could adversely affect our operations. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local regulation under transportation laws and environmental laws, and sometimes require us to obtain permits or other approvals. Our operations may be significantly affected by regulations of the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), and may also be affected by regulations of the Surface Transportation Board, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, state departments of transportation and other federal, state and local regulatory agencies. Our grinding and disposal operations may also be affected by environmental laws and regulations regarding emissions, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and hazardous chemicals, soil contamination and groundwater contamination. Our business operations sometimes necessitate the use of hazardous chemicals. Liability can arise from the use of these materials, and claims may be asserted from third parties and even our own customers and employees. We could incur significant costs from such claims as well as ongoing costs associated with mere environmental regulatory compliance. Although we believe that we materially comply with all of the various regulations applicable to our business and obtain all necessary regulatory permits and approvals, a change in regulations or a failure or delay in obtaining a necessary permit or approval could cause us to incur significant additional costs or suffer a decrease in revenue or profitability. Our business is inherently dangerous for our employees, requiring us to consistently incur costs to minimize our potential liability exposure. We operate a labor-intensive service business where our employees are regularly subjected to dangerous conditions. We consistently incur costs to mitigate these dangers and risks, including but not limited to safety training and payment of workers’ compensation premiums. We cannot guarantee that these measures, or others taken by us, will successfully prevent accidents and the potentially substantial losses that can result from accidents. Our future growth is dependent upon many factors, some of which are not within our control, such as whether demand for ties will increase as a “green” energy source. Growing our business will require us to attract new customers and contracts while expanding our workforce to accommodate their needs. However, the level of demand for ties is largely beyond our control, and depends on whether shredded ties will, in the future, be perceived as a biomass or “green” energy source. Even if we are successful in obtaining new business, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to manage cash flow sufficiently to expand our supplies and workforce to accommodate our new business, nor can we guarantee that we will be able to maintain high-quality services to our customers if we are faced with rapid growth. In short, because we operate a labor-intensive service business in a “niche” industry, future growth must be carefully managed and sought at an achievable rate. Changes in technology may have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Research and development activities are ongoing to provide alternative and more efficient technologies to dispose of wood waste or produce power. It is possible that advances in these or other technologies will reduce the cost of wood waste disposal technologies to a level below our costs. Furthermore, increased conservation efforts could reduce the demand for power or reduce the value of our services. Any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. 8 Risks Relating to Our Company We financed a substantial portion of the purchase price for the acquisition of Wood Energy, and we recently obtained credit lines for working capital and capital expenditure needs, all of which may decrease our profitability and cash flow, and increase our leverage. We borrowed $3.0 million of the $5.0 million cash portion of the purchase price for Wood Energy, and we obtained credit lines in the aggregate amount of $2.0 million. For additional capital for the acquisition, we also issued Debentures in the amount of $1,525,000 which were subsequently converted into shares of Preferred Stock in 2010. Although investments in leveraged companies offer the opportunity for capital appreciation, leveraged investments also involve a high degree of risk. The amount of our debt outstanding from time to time could have important consequences for us and our investors. For example, it could: · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, acquisitions, redevelopments and other appropriate business development opportunities that may arise in the future, · make it difficult to satisfy our debt service requirements, · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the factors that affect the profitability of our business, including a downturn in business or the general economy, and · limit our flexibility in conducting our business, which may place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt or debt with less restrictive terms. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness will depend primarily on our future performance, which to a certain extent is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt or meet our other cash needs. If we are unable to generate this cash flow from our business, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing from our lender to meet our debt obligations and other cash needs. We cannot assure you that any such refinancing, sale of assets or additional financing would be possible on terms that we would find acceptable, and failure to pay or refinance our debt could result in the acceleration of our debt and foreclosure of substantially all of our assets. Our primary asset is Wood Energy, and our credit facilities include financial covenants that limit our ability to obtain cash distributions from Wood Energy, limiting our operating activities and results of operations. We are a holding company with no direct operations and our principal asset is our stock of Wood Energy. Wood Energy is legally distinct from Banyan, and our ability to obtain distributions from Wood Energy by way of dividends, interest or other payments (including intercompany loans) is subject to restrictions imposed by our term loan and credit facilities (under which Wood Energy is the borrower and Banyan is a guarantor), such as: · Wood Energy was permitted to distribute no more than $50,000 in management fees to us during the 2009 calendar year, and “reasonable amounts” in future years, and any other transactions between us and Wood Energy (or between Wood Energy and any related party) must be arm’s length transactions, · We must ensure that Wood Energy meets certain financial tests on a quarterly basis, including loan covenants that require, among other things, compliance with fixed charge coverage and total debt coverage ratios, as well as minimum levels of EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization). As described on page 18, we included certain add-backs in calculating these covenants for the period ended December 31, 2009, with which the bank concurred and accepted for purpose of determining compliance at that date. · If certain equipment is sold in the ordinary course of business, the sale proceeds must be used to reduce debt unless they are used to purchase replacement equipment, · We may not cause Wood Energy to invest in, acquire assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies, and · We may not cause Wood Energy to grant liens, incur additional indebtedness or contingent obligations or obtain additional financing. These covenants place constraints on our business and may adversely affect our growth, earnings, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. Further, we may be required to comply with additional covenants. Failure to comply with financial covenants may result in the acceleration of the debt and foreclosure of Wood Energy’s assets, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, earnings, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. 9 Our performance depends substantially on the experience and judgment of our management team. Our executive officers and directors are responsible for making critical decisions regarding our business and strategies. Our stockholders will not be entitled to vote on day-to-day operating decisions or even many significant transactions, such as whether or not to acquire new assets or businesses and on what terms. Poor execution on the part of our management team would adversely affect our business and financial condition. If we are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, including members of senior management, our ability to grow our business may be affected. We currently have a small management team. Our failure to attract competent and qualified personnel would have a material adverse effect on our operations. We will need to hire qualified personnel with expertise in the railroad construction industry to implement our business plan and to operate companies we acquire. Attracting and retaining qualified and competent personnel in a timely manner will be critical to our success. We compete for qualified individuals with numerous other companies. Competition for such individuals is intense, and we cannot be certain that our search for such personnel will be successful. In addition, the loss of a key member of our management team could negatively impact our Company, and we carry no key-man life insurance for our executive officers or members of senior management. We may need to raise additional capital, which may not be available to us and may limit our operations or growth. We may need additional capital to fund the implementation of our business plan. We cannot assure you that any necessary subsequent financing will be successful. Our future liquidity and capital requirements are difficult to predict as they depend upon many factors, including our ability to identify and complete acquisitions and the success of any business we do acquire. We may need to raise additional funds in order to meet working capital requirements or additional capital expenditures or to take advantage of other opportunities. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to raise needed capital, our growth and operations may be impeded. In addition, if we raise capital by selling additional shares of stock, your percentage ownership in Banyan will be diluted. We may not be able to successfully acquire or integrate new business. We face a variety of risks associated with acquiring and integrating new business operations, including Wood Energy. The growth and success of our business will depend to a significant extent on our ability to acquire and operate new assets or businesses. We may compete with companies that have significantly greater resources than we do for potential acquisition candidates. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to: · identify suitable acquisition candidates or opportunities, · acquire assets or business operations on commercially acceptable terms, · obtain financing necessary to complete an acquisition on reasonable terms or at all, · manage effectively the operations of Wood Energy or other acquired businesses, or · achieve our operating and growth strategies with respect to the acquired assets or businesses. Our management and operation of Wood Energy and of other businesses that we acquire in the future could involve unforeseen difficulties, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our directors and officers own a significant interest in Banyan. Our directors and officers, together with Greg Smith and Andy Lewis who serve as president and vice president of our operating subsidiary, control 32.5% of our outstanding shares (45.1% if they exercised their options and converted their shares of Preferred Stock). Accordingly, they possess a significant vote on all matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders including the election of the members of our board. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of preventing or discouraging transactions involving an actual or a potential change of control of Banyan, regardless of whether a premium is offered over then-current market prices. 10 If the value of our intangible assets is materially impaired, our financial condition, results of operations and stockholders’ equity could be materially adversely affected. Due largely to our acquisition of Wood Energy and the nature of our operations as a service business, goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. If we make additional acquisitions, it is likely that we will record additional intangible assets on our books. We periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may no longer be recoverable, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. Any future evaluations requiring an asset impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and stockholders’ equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. As of December 31, 2009, management determined that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were ineffective due to material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting following our acquisition of Wood Energy. Our internal controls and operations are subject to extensive SEC regulation and reporting obligations. A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In connection with management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, management has identified the following material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009: The Company acquired The Wood Energy Group, Inc. (“Wood Energy”) in September 2009. The Company’s management began to integrate Wood Energy into the Company, and enhance the internal controls structure and policies and procedures surrounding financial reporting. As of December 31, 2009, all of these enhancements had not been finalized, specifically the recording of deferred revenues and costs associated with projects in process and timely reconciliation of certain balance sheet accounts. Further, the Company was in need of an additional resource to handle the increase in business activities, and resulting GAAP financial statement and SEC reporting requirements, as a result of the recent acquisition. Accordingly, the Company’s management determined that as of December 31, 2009, our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were ineffective due to material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting following our acquisition of Wood Energy. Although we believe that we have addressed the material weaknesses in our internal controls, we cannot be certain that our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our failure to develop or maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could impair our ability to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, harm our operating results, or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our shares. Current state of debt markets could have a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. The commercial debt markets are currently experiencing volatility as a result of certain factors including the tightening of underwriting standards by lenders and credit rating agencies and the significant inventory of unsold collateralized mortgage backed securities in the market. Credit spreads for major sources of capital have widened significantly as investors have demanded a higher risk premium. This is resulting in lenders increasing the cost for debt financing. Should the overall cost of borrowings increase, either by increases in the index rates or by increases in lender spreads, we will need to factor such increases into the economics of our business plan. This may result in our generating lower overall economic returns and potentially reducing cash flow available for business operations and business development. Risks Relating to Our Shares Directors’ options and outstanding convertible preferred stock may depress the price of our common stock. As a result of the private placement and subsequent issuances of Preferred Stock in February 2010, there are shares of Preferred Stock to purchase as many as 898,750 shares of our common stock for $2.00 per share. In addition, as of December 31, 2009 we have issued options to purchase 300,000 shares to our directors as compensation for serving on the board at prices ranging from $1.50 to $3.50 a share. If the directors’ options are exercised or the shares of Preferred Stock are converted, your ownership of the Company will be diluted. In addition, the issuance of a significant number of shares upon conversion of shares of Preferred Stock or the exercise of options could depress the price of our stock if there isn’t enough demand for the shares in the market. Even if the shares of Preferred Stock are not converted, the large number of shares issuable upon conversion of the Preferred Stock could cause on overhang on the market and prevent the market price of our stock from rising above the Preferred Stock conversion price of $2.00. 11 If you invest in Banyan, you may experience substantial dilution and the market price of our shares may decrease. In the event we obtain any additional funding, such financings may have a dilutive effect on the holders of our securities. In addition, as part of its recruitment process and in connection with our efforts to attract and retain employees and directors, we may offer stock options, restricted shares or other types of equity-based incentives to its future employees and directors. The Company’s issuance of equity-based incentives to new hires, especially senior management and directors, may be substantial and you may suffer significant dilution as a result of such issuances. Also, we agreed that if we conduct a registered offering of securities, we will register the shares of common stock issued to the sellers of Wood Energy and underlying the convertible securities issued in connection with our acquisition of Wood Energy. Further, although shares of common stock issued to the sellers and to be issued upon conversion of our Preferred Stock will be “restricted” securities under the Securities Act of 1933 prior to any registration statement being filed and being declared effective by the SEC, they may nonetheless be sold prior to that time in reliance on registration exemptions contained in Rule 144 of the Securities Act, subject to certain resale restrictions imposed by Rule 144. Such issuances and sales may also depress the market price of our shares. Our common stock may be considered a “penny stock.” The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price for our common stock has been below $5.00 per share and so long as our stock trades for less than $5.00 per share, it will be considered a “penny stock” according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their shares. You may not be able to sell your shares because there is a limited market for our stock. Although our common stock is traded on the OTCBB, because we have had no significant business operations for several years, currently there is limited trading volume in our stock and there may be very limited demand for it as well. As a result, it may be difficult for you to sell our common stock despite the fact it is traded on the OTCBB. Our Preferred Stock could adversely affect the holders of our common stock. We have issued 17,975 shares of Preferred Stock and, pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued preferred stock and to issue those shares without any further action or vote by the common stockholders. The holders of the Preferred Stock are entitled to receive payment before any of the common stockholders upon liquidation of the Company and we cannot pay a dividend on our common stock unless we first pay dividends required by our Preferred Stock. In addition, the rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. These adverse effects could include subordination to preferred shareholders in the payment of dividends and upon our liquidation and dissolution, and the use of preferred stock as an anti-takeover measure, which could impede a change in control that is otherwise in the interests of holders of our common stock. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of cash dividends depends on our future earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors that our board of directors may consider relevant. Additionally, our credit facilities prohibit Wood Energy from paying dividends to Banyan without our senior lender’s consent, and limits the amount of management fees Wood Energy may pay to Banyan. Wood Energy may pay “reasonable amounts” of management fees in future years. These restrictions on Wood Energy make the payment of dividends by Banyan to its shareholders unlikely. Because we do not intend to pay cash dividends, the only return on your investment may be limited to the market price of the shares. Item 