Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a description of what we consider the key challenges and risks relating to our business and investing in our common stock. This discussion should be considered in conjunction with the discussion under the caption “Forward-Looking Information” preceding Part I, the information set forth under Item 1, “Business” and with the discussion of the business included in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” These risks comprise the material risks of which we are aware. If any of the events or developments described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or in any documents that we subsequently file publicly were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Company Wood Energy has declared bankruptcy and our railroad tie reclamation and disposal operations have ceased. On January 11, 2013, our operating subsidiary, Wood Energy, filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Florida (Case 13-10688-PGH). On February 5, 2013, the bankruptcy court granted Wood Energy’s motion to convert the case to one under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. Wood Energy moved for the conversion because it lacks the funds necessary to continue operations. Wood Energy has ceased operating and the bankruptcy trustee is currently in the process of liquidating Wood Energy’s assets. Although we expect that proceeds from the sale of assets could significantly reduce or potentially eliminate Wood Energy’s debts, we cannot guarantee the results of the bankruptcy proceeding and potential sale of assets. Banyan has guaranteed certain debts of Wood Energy and may be liable for these obligations if they are not satisfied in the bankruptcy. Wood Energy has defaulted on its loans and Banyan has been sued for payment. Wood Energy failed to make the January 2013 payment to Fifth Third Bank under a $3.0 million term note. In addition to the term loan, Wood Energy has a $1.0 million working capital line of credit and a $500,000 capital expenditure line of credit with Fifth Third. Banyan has guaranteed all three loans. On February 7, 2013, Fifth Third filed an action against Banyan in the Circuit Court of the Fifteenth Judicial Circuit in Palm Beach County, Florida (Case No. CA002288XXXXMB). In its complaint Fifth Third claims to accelerate the due date of all three loans and seeks payment pursuant to the guaranty in the principal amount of approximately $3.6 million plus interest. We are currently reviewing Fifth Third’s claim and will respond in a timely manner. In connection with the bankruptcy proceedings discussed above, we expect the assets of Wood Energy to be liquidated and to realize sale proceeds that would significantly reduce or eliminate the debt owed to Fifth Third. However, we cannot predict the outcome of the litigation or guarantee the results of the bankruptcy proceeding and potential sale of assets. The Fifth Third suit could place significant constraints on Banyan’s ability to attract additional investors for future growth. We have incurred debt and issued preferred stock, all of which may decrease both our net income available to common shareholders and cash flow. In addition to our credit lines and term note with Fifth Third discussed above, we have entered into a demand loan with Banyan Holdings, LLC, formerly known as Patriot Rail Services, Inc. (“Banyan Holdings”) in the amount of $225,000, and have issued 49,950 shares of preferred stock for working capital needs in the amount of $5.07 million. Our chairman is the President of Banyan Holdings. During 2012, due to lack of cash flow, we were unable to pay the required dividend on the preferred stock and offered to pay the accrued dividends in common stock in lieu of cash. Substantially all of our preferred shareholders accepted the common stock in lieu of cash and the common shares for these dividends are expected to be paid in March 2013. However, we cannot guarantee that the preferred shareholders will continue to accept common shares in lieu of cash. Although investments in leveraged companies offer the opportunity for capital appreciation, leveraged investments also involve a high degree of risk. The amount of our debt and preferred stock outstanding could have important consequences for us and our investors. For example, it could: •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow obtained from financing to payments on our debt or mandatory preferred stock dividends, thereby reducing funds available for acquisitions, and other appropriate business development opportunities that may arise in the future, •make it difficult to satisfy our debt service requirements, •impede our ability to raise additional capital necessary to fund potential acquisitions or operate our business, and 6 •limit our flexibility in conducting our business plan of identifying and acquiring an operating company, which may place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors with less preferred stock and debt or debt with less restrictive terms. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of and to pay interest or dividends on our indebtedness will depend primarily on our future performance, which to a certain extent is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. We currently have no operations generating cash flow to service our debt, pay preferred stock dividends or meet our other cash needs. We will need to raise additional capital, which may not be available to us and may limit our operations or growth. We will need additional capital to fund the implementation of our business plan. We cannot assure you that any necessary subsequent financing will be successful. Our future liquidity and capital requirements are difficult to predict as they depend upon many factors, including our ability to identify and complete acquisitions and the success of any business we do acquire. We will need to raise additional funds in order to meet working capital requirements or additional capital expenditures or to take advantage of other opportunities. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to raise needed capital, our growth and operations may be impeded. In addition, if we raise capital by selling additional shares of stock, your percentage ownership in Banyan will be diluted. We may not be able to successfully acquire or integrate a new business. We face a variety of risks associated with acquiring and integrating new business operations, including the liquidation of Wood Energy. The growth and success of our business will depend to a significant extent on a favorable liquidation of Wood Energy and to acquire and operate new assets or businesses. We may compete with companies that have significantly greater resources than we do for potential acquisition candidates. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to: ·identify suitable acquisition candidates or opportunities, ·acquire assets or business operations on commercially acceptable terms, ·obtain financing necessary to complete an acquisition on reasonable terms or at all, ·manage effectively the operations of acquired businesses, or ·achieve our operating and growth strategies with respect to the acquired assets or businesses. Businesses that we acquire in the future could involve unforeseen difficulties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Certain affiliates and employees own a significant interest in Banyan. A company affiliated with certain directors, officers and an independent director, control 46.5% of our outstanding shares (66.0% if they exercised their options and converted their shares of preferred stock). Accordingly, they possess a significant vote on all matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders including the election of the members of our board. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of preventing or discouraging transactions involving an actual or a potential change of control of Banyan, regardless of whether a premium is offered over then-current market prices. 7 Risks Relating to Our Shares Directors’ options and outstanding convertible preferred stock may depress the price of our common stock. As a result of the private placements including issuances of preferred stock in 2012, there are shares of outstanding preferred stock which can be converted into as many as 2,664,673 shares of our common stock for $0.90 to $2.50 per share. In addition, as of December 31, 2012 we have issued options to purchase 175,000 shares to our directors as compensation for serving on the board at prices ranging from $2.00 to $3.50 a share. If the directors’ options are exercised or the shares of preferred stock are converted, your ownership of the Company will be diluted. In addition, the issuance of a significant number of shares upon conversion of shares of preferred stock or the exercise of options could depress the price of our stock if there isn’t enough demand for the shares in the market. Even if the shares of preferred stock are not converted, the large number of shares issuable upon conversion of the preferred stock could cause an overhang on the market. If you invest in Banyan, you may experience substantial dilution and the market price of our shares may decrease. In the event we obtain any additional funding, there may be a dilutive effect on the holders of our securities. In addition, as part of our recruitment process and in connection with our efforts to attract and retain employees and directors, we may offer stock options, restricted stock shares or other types of equity-based incentives to its future employees and directors. The Company’s issuance of equity-based incentives to new hires, senior management and directors, may cause you significant dilution as a result of such issuances. Also, we agreed that if we conduct a registered offering of securities, we will register the shares of common stock issued to the sellers of Wood Energy and underlying the preferred stock issued in connection with our acquisition of Wood Energy. Further, although shares of common stock issued to the sellers and to be issued upon conversion of our preferred stock will be “restricted” securities under the Securities Act of 1933 prior to any registration statement being filed and being declared effective by the SEC, they may nonetheless be sold prior to that time in reliance on registration exemptions contained in Rule 144 of the Securities Act, subject to certain resale restrictions imposed by Rule 144. Such issuances and sales may also depress the market price of our shares. Our common stock may be considered a “penny stock.” The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price for our common stock has been below $5.00 per share and so long as our stock trades for less than $5.00 per share, it will be considered a “penny stock” according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their shares. You may not be able to sell your shares because there is a limited market for our stock. Although our common stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board®, currently there is limited trading volume in our stock and there may be very limited demand for it as well. As a result, it may be difficult for you to sell our common stock despite the fact it is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board®. Our preferred stock could adversely affect the holders of our common stock. We have issued 49,950 shares of preferred stock, pursuant to our certificate of incorporation; our board of directors has the authority to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued preferred stock and to issue those shares without any further action or vote by the common stockholders. The holders of the preferred stock are entitled to receive payment before any of the common stockholders upon liquidation of the Company and we cannot pay a dividend on our common stock unless we first pay dividends required by our preferred stock. In addition, the rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. These adverse effects could include subordination to preferred shareholders in the payment of dividends and upon our liquidation and dissolution, and the use of preferred stock as an anti-takeover measure, which could impede a change in control that is otherwise in the interests of holders of our common stock. 8 We do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of cash dividends depends on our future earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors that our board of directors may consider relevant. Because we do not intend to pay cash dividends, the only return on your investment may be limited to the market price of the shares. 