Item 1A. Risk Factors. General economic conditions in the United States may adversely affect the Company’s results. The Company’s revenues may be affected by U. S. and international market conditions and consumer confidence. Any substantial deterioration in general economic conditions which diminishes consumer confidence in any of the regions where the Company competes could reduce the Company’s sales and adversely affect its business and financial results. The Company’s profitability may suffer as a result of competitive product offerings and pricing pressures. The introduction of lower-priced competitive products by other companies can hurt the Company’s competitive position. Such competitive pricing may limit the Company’s ability to increase prices in response to raw material and other cost increases. The Company’s financial results may be adversely affected if the Company is unable to maintain effective distribution. The Company’s products are sold through dealers and the financial health of these dealers is critical to the Company’s continued success. The Company’s results can be negatively affected if dealers experience higher operating costs that can result from rising interest rates, higher rents, labor costs and taxes, and compliance with regulations. Inventory adjustments by the Company’s major dealers adversely affects the Company’s operating margins. If the Company’s dealers adjust their inventories downward in response to weakness in retail demand, wholesale demand for the Company’s product diminishes. In turn, the Company must reduce production, which results in lower rates of absorption of fixed costs and thus lower margins. Adverse weather conditions can have a negative impact on revenues. Weather conditions can have a significant impact on the Company’s operating and financial results. Sales of the Company’s products are generally stronger just before and during spring and summer, and favorable weather during these months generally has a positive effect on consumer demand. Conversely, unseasonably cool weather, excessive rainfall or drought conditions during these periods can reduce demand. Hurricanes and other storms can result in the disruption of the Company’s manufacturing operations and its distribution channel. Higher energy costs can adversely affect the Company’s results and can hurt demand for the Company’s products. Higher energy costs increase the Company’s operating costs at its manufacturing facility and the cost of shipping its products to dealers. In addition, the Company’s products are powered by gasoline and diesel engines and any increase in the price of petroleum-based fuel, or the imposition of taxes or an interruption of supply, could reduce the demand for the Company’s products. 6 Higher interest rates can reduce demand. The Company’s products are often financed. Rising interest rates can have an adverse effect on dealers’ and consumers’ ability to finance boat purchases. Disruption of deliveries from the Company’s single-source suppliers can adversely affect production and revenues. The Company’s single-source supply and just-in-time inventory strategies of some critical boat components, including high performance marine engines, could adversely affect production if a single-source supplier is unable for any reason to meet the Company’s requirements on a timely basis. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 