Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a description of what we consider the key challenges and risks relating to our business and investing in our common stock. This discussion should be considered in conjunction with the discussion under the caption “Forward-Looking Information” preceding Part I, the information set forth under Item 1, “Business” and with the discussion of the business included in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” These risks comprise the material risks of which we are aware. If any of the events or developments described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or in any documents that we subsequently file publicly were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Business We depend upon a limited number of customers and contracts to generate revenue, and this concentration of customers and contracts may expose us to heightened financial exposure. Our business is a service business, and our revenue is generated from a limited number of customers. For instance, in 2010 and 2009 we derived 67% and 75% of our revenue, respectively, from services performed for Union Pacific, and we anticipate deriving a similar percentage of our revenue from them in 2011. Although we have long-term agreements and relationships with that customer and certain other customers, the agreements may be terminated on short notice. Thus, our concentration of customers and contracts exposes us to greater financial risk than businesses with a broader customer base. A significant reduction in the volume with one of these customers or the loss of a customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we rely on timely and regular payments from our customers on ordinary course business terms. The failure of our customers to pay on ordinary course business terms may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is competitive and, as a service business, is based largely on long-term contracts and personal relationships, which makes it difficult for us to obtain new customers and contracts. The rail tie reclamation and disposal industry is competitive. Most companies have long-term contracts and long-standing relationships with their customers, which makes obtaining new business difficult. If we are unable to obtain new customers and contracts and expand into other geographic markets, growth of revenue and profitability could be slow or non-existent. We depend heavily upon highly skilled and knowledgeable management personnel. The railroad construction, rehabilitation and maintenance industry is a highly specialized one; therefore we depend significantly upon key management personnel. We cannot guarantee that these employees will not choose to terminate their employment. Similarly, we cannot guarantee that employees with employment agreements can be renegotiated upon expiration or that skilled individuals can be found to replace these employees. The loss of the services of one or more of these employees before we are able to attract and retain qualified replacement personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to substantial environmental and other government regulation, and failure to comply with these laws and obtain necessary permits and approvals could adversely affect our operations. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local regulation under transportation laws and environmental laws, and sometimes require us to obtain permits or other approvals. Our operations may be significantly affected by regulations of the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), and may also be affected by regulations of the Surface Transportation Board, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, state departments of transportation and other federal, state and local regulatory agencies. Our grinding and disposal operations may also be affected by Federal Environmental Protection Agency, and other state and local regulatory agencies environmental laws and regulations regarding emissions, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and hazardous chemicals, soil contamination and groundwater contamination. Our business operations sometimes necessitate the use of hazardous chemicals. Liability can arise from the use of these materials, and claims may be asserted from third parties and even our own customers and employees. We could incur significant costs from such claims as well as ongoing costs associated with mere environmental regulatory compliance for which we have an environmental insurance policy. Although we believe that we materially comply with all of the various regulations applicable to our business and obtain all necessary regulatory permits and approvals, a change in regulations or a failure or delay in obtaining a necessary permit or approval could cause us to incur significant additional costs in excess of our environmental insurance coverage or suffer a decrease in revenue or profitability. 7 The U.S. Environmental Protections Agency (“EPA”) has recently ruled that creosote treated railroad ties are non-hazardous secondary material that are considered solid waste and do not qualify as bio-fuel. Although industrial plants and utilities will still be able to utilize ties as fuel, they will be required to retrofit their wood burning furnaces to comply with the solid waste designation. The EPA has provided for a minimum of three years before these retrofits will be required. The EPA’s designation of ties as solid waste could increase our tie disposal costs and limit higher margin sales of ties as fuel. We are currently exploring alternative solutions for tie disposal and cannot predict the long-term impact of the new rules on the Company’s operations. Our business is inherently dangerous for our employees, requiring us to consistently incur costs to minimize our potential liability exposure. We operate a labor-intensive service business where our employees are regularly subjected to dangerous conditions. We consistently incur costs to mitigate these dangers and risks, including but not limited to safety training and payment of workers’ compensation and employee liability premiums. We cannot guarantee that these measures, or others taken by us, will successfully prevent accidents and the potentially substantial losses that can result from accidents. Changes in technology may have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Research and development activities are ongoing to provide alternative and more efficient technologies to dispose of wood waste or produce power. It is possible that advances in these or other technologies will reduce the cost of wood waste disposal methods to a level below our costs. Furthermore, increased conservation efforts could reduce the demand for power or reduce the value of our services. Any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Risks Relating to Our Company We financed a substantial portion of the purchase price for the acquisition of Wood Energy, and we have established short term credit lines for working capital and capital expenditure needs. Further we have recently issued additional preferred stock, all of which may decrease both our net income available to common shareholders and cash flow. We borrowed $3.0 million of the $5.0 million cash portion of the purchase price for Wood Energy, and we obtained credit lines in the aggregate amount of $2.0 million. For additional capital for the acquisition, we also issued debentures in the amount of $1,525,000 which was subsequently converted into shares of series A preferred stock. Although investments in leveraged companies offer the opportunity for capital appreciation, leveraged investments also involve a high degree of risk. The amount of our debt and preferred stock outstanding from time to time could have important consequences for us and our investors. For example, it could: · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt or mandatory preferred stock dividends, thereby reducing funds available for operations, acquisitions, redevelopments and other appropriate business development opportunities that may arise in the future, · make it difficult to satisfy our debt service requirements, · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the factors that affect the profitability of our business, including a downturn in business or the general economy, and 8 · limit our flexibility in conducting our business, which may place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors with less preferred stock and debt or debt with less restrictive terms. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest or dividends on, or to refinance our indebtedness will depend primarily on our future performance, which to a certain extent is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, pay mandatory preferred stock dividends or meet our other cash needs. If we are unable to generate this cash flow from our business, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing from our lender or investors to meet our debt obligations, mandatory preferred stock dividends and other cash needs. Our ability to comply with financial covenants of our term loans and credit lines could materially and adversely affect our business, earnings, cash flow, liquidity, and financial condition. Our loan agreements with Fifth Third Bank contain various financial covenants. The loan covenants may adversely affect our ability to respond to adverse changes in economic, business or market conditions. Our debt covenants may also limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities. Our failure to comply with the financial covenants may result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the debt under our credit facilities or other agreements that we may enter into from time to time that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions At December 31, 2010, we were in violation of the fixed charge coverage, the total debt to EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) and the minimum EBITDA covenants contained in our loan agreements with Fifth Third Bank. On April 1, 2011, the lender granted a waiver with respect to non-compliance with the financial covenants as of December 31, 2010. We are currently concluding negotiations for a modification and extension of our term loan and credit lines with the bank. Both the bank and the Company have agreed to the revised terms, including the rates, financial covenants, and other particulars of the credit facilities. We expect to have the executed modification agreement and extension shortly. The Company expects to meet the financial covenants included in the modification and extension of our term loan and credit lines and has retained the long-term classification of the applicable portions of the debt in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Our primary asset is Wood Energy, and our credit facilities include financial covenants that limit our ability to obtain cash distributions from Wood Energy, limiting our operating activities and results of operations. We are a holding company with no direct operations and our principal asset is our stock of Wood Energy. Wood Energy is legally distinct from Banyan, and our ability to obtain distributions from Wood Energy by way of dividends, interest or other payments (including intercompany loans) is subject to restrictions imposed by our term loan and credit facilities (under which Wood Energy is the borrower and Banyan is a guarantor), such as: · We must ensure that Wood Energy meets certain financial tests on a quarterly basis, including loan covenants that require, among other things, compliance with fixed charge coverage and total debt coverage ratios, as well as minimum levels of EBITDA, · If certain equipment is sold in the ordinary course of business, the sale proceeds must be used to reduce debt unless they are used to purchase replacement equipment, · We may not cause Wood Energy to invest in, acquire assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies, and · We may not cause Wood Energy to grant liens, incur additional indebtedness or contingent obligations or obtain additional financing encumbering any of the bank’s existing collateral. 9 These covenants could place constraints on our business and may adversely affect our growth, earnings, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. Further, we may be required to comply with additional covenants. Failure to comply with financial covenants may result in the acceleration of the debt, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, earnings, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. If we are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, including members of senior management, our ability to grow our business may be affected. We currently have a small management team. Our failure to attract competent and qualified personnel would have a material adverse effect on our operations. We will need to hire qualified personnel with expertise in the railroad industry to implement our business plan and to operate companies we acquire. Attracting and retaining qualified and competent personnel in a timely manner will be critical to our success. We compete for qualified individuals with numerous other companies. Competition for such individuals is intense, and we cannot be certain that our search for such personnel will be successful. In addition, the loss of a key member of our management team could negatively impact our Company, and we carry no key-man life insurance for our executive officers or members of senior management. We may need to raise additional capital, which may not be available to us and may limit our operations or growth. We may need additional capital to fund the implementation of our business plan. We cannot assure you that any necessary subsequent financing will be successful. Our future liquidity and capital requirements are difficult to predict as they depend upon many factors, including our ability to identify and complete acquisitions and the success of any business we do acquire. We may need to raise additional funds in order to meet working capital requirements or additional capital expenditures or to take advantage of other opportunities. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to raise needed capital, our growth and operations may be impeded. In addition, if we raise capital by selling additional shares of stock, your percentage ownership in Banyan will be diluted. We may not be able to successfully acquire or integrate new business. We face a variety of risks associated with acquiring and integrating new business operations, including Wood Energy. The growth and success of our business will depend to a significant extent on our ability to acquire and operate new assets or businesses. We may compete with companies that have significantly greater resources than we do for potential acquisition candidates. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to: · identify suitable acquisition candidates or opportunities, · acquire assets or business operations on commercially acceptable terms, · obtain financing necessary to complete an acquisition on reasonable terms or at all, · manage effectively the operations of Wood Energy or other acquired businesses, or · achieve our operating and growth strategies with respect to the acquired assets or businesses. Our management and operation of Wood Energy and of other businesses that we acquire in the future could involve unforeseen difficulties, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Certain directors and officers own a significant interest in Banyan. Certain directors and officers, together with Greg Smith and Andy Lewis who serve as president and vice president of our operating subsidiary, control 35.6% of our outstanding shares (52.8% if they exercised their options and converted their shares of preferred stock). Accordingly, they possess a significant vote on all matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders including the election of the members of our board. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of preventing or discouraging transactions involving an actual or a potential change of control of Banyan, regardless of whether a premium is offered over then-current market prices. In addition, a company affiliated with our President and Chairman has acquired preferred and common stock and may acquire additional shares in the future. 10 If the value of our intangible assets is materially impaired, our financial condition, results of operations and stockholders’ equity could be materially adversely affected. Due largely to our acquisition of Wood Energy and the nature of our operations as a service business, goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. If we make additional acquisitions, it is likely that we will record additional intangible assets on our books. We periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their financial statement carrying values may no longer be recoverable, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. Any future evaluations requiring an asset impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and stockholders’ equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. The current state of debt markets could have a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. The cost of commercial debt may increase or may contract as a result of certain factors including the tightening of underwriting standards by lenders and credit rating agencies. Credit spreads for major sources of capital may grow significantly as investors may demand a higher risk premium. Should our borrowing cost increase, either by increases in the index rates or by increases in lender spreads, we will need to factor such increases into the economics of our business plan. This may result in our generating lower overall economic returns and potentially reducing cash flow available for business operations and business development. Risks Relating to Our Shares Directors’ options and outstanding convertible preferred stock may depress the price of our common stock. As a result of the private placements including issuances of preferred stock in 2011, there are shares of outstanding preferred stock which can be converted into as many as 1,355,556 shares of our common stock for $2.00 or $2.25 per share. In addition, as of December 31, 2010 we have issued options to purchase 200,000 shares to our directors as compensation for serving on the board at prices ranging from $2.00 to $3.50 a share. If the directors’ options are exercised or the shares of preferred stock are converted, your ownership of the Company will be diluted. In addition, the issuance of a significant number of shares upon conversion of shares of preferred stock or the exercise of options could depress the price of our stock if there isn’t enough demand for the shares in the market. Even if the shares of preferred stock are not converted, the large number of shares issuable upon conversion of the preferred stock could cause an overhang on the market. If you invest in Banyan, you may experience substantial dilution and the market price of our shares may decrease. In the event we obtain any additional funding, there may be a dilutive effect on the holders of our securities. In addition, as part of our recruitment process and in connection with our efforts to attract and retain employees and directors, we may offer stock options, restricted stock shares or other types of equity-based incentives to its future employees and directors. The Company’s issuance of equity-based incentives to new hires, senior management and directors, may cause you significant dilution as a result of such issuances. Also, we agreed that if we conduct a registered offering of securities, we will register the shares of common stock issued to the sellers of Wood Energy and underlying the preferred stock issued in connection with our acquisition of Wood Energy. Further, although shares of common stock issued to the sellers and to be issued upon conversion of our preferred stock will be “restricted” securities under the Securities Act of 1933 prior to any registration statement being filed and being declared effective by the SEC, they may nonetheless be sold prior to that time in reliance on registration exemptions contained in Rule 144 of the Securities Act, subject to certain resale restrictions imposed by Rule 144. Such issuances and sales may also depress the market price of our shares. Our common stock may be considered a “penny stock.” The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price for our common stock has been below $5.00 per share and so long as our stock trades for less than $5.00 per share, it will be considered a “penny stock” according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their shares. 11 You may not be able to sell your shares because there is a limited market for our stock. Although our common stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board®, because we have had no significant business operations for several years, currently there is limited trading volume in our stock and there may be very limited demand for it as well. As a result, it may be difficult for you to sell our common stock despite the fact it is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board ® Our preferred stock could adversely affect the holders of our common stock. We have issued 28,000 shares of preferred stock through the date of this annual report on Form 10-K filing and, pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued preferred stock and to issue those shares without any further action or vote by the common stockholders. The holders of the preferred stock are entitled to receive payment before any of the common stockholders upon liquidation of the Company and we cannot pay a dividend on our common stock unless we first pay dividends required by our preferred stock. In addition, the rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. These adverse effects could include subordination to preferred shareholders in the payment of dividends and upon our liquidation and dissolution, and the use of preferred stock as an anti-takeover measure, which could impede a change in control that is otherwise in the interests of holders of our common stock. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of cash dividends depends on our future earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors that our board of directors may consider relevant. Additionally, our credit facilities prohibit Wood Energy from paying dividends to Banyan without our senior lender’s consent, and limits the amount of management fees Wood Energy may pay to Banyan. Wood Energy may pay “reasonable amounts” of management fees in future years. These current restrictions on Wood Energy make the payment of dividends by Banyan to its shareholders unlikely. Because we do not intend to pay cash dividends, the only return on your investment may be limited to the market price of the shares. 