Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company is subject to certain risks and an investment in the Company’s securities may involve risks due to the nature of the Company’s business and activities related to that business. In addition to the factors discussed below, please see the discussion under “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk.” These factors, along with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be considered in evaluating forward-looking statements, and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements. FNB United Is Vulnerable to the Economic Conditions within the Relatively Small Region in Which It Operates FNB United’s overall success is dependent in part on the general economic conditions within its market area, which extends from the central and southern Piedmont and Sandhills of North Carolina to the foothills and mountains of western North Carolina. An economic downturn in this fairly small geographic region that negatively affects FNB United’s customers could adversely affect FNB United. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or increases in interest rates, as well as other factors, could weaken the economy of the region and depress the Company’s earnings and financial condition. The United States is currently in a recession. Overall, during 2008, the North Carolina business environment has been adverse for many households and businesses and continues to deteriorate. It is expected that the business environment will continue to deteriorate for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of the Company’s loans, the value of the Company’s investment securities, and its overall results of operation and financial condition. Weaknesses in the Markets for Residential or Commercial Real Estate Could Reduce FNB United’s Net Income and Profitability. Real estate lending (including commercial, construction, land development, and residential) is a large portion of the Bank’s loan portfolio. These categories constitute $1.4 billion, or approximately 86%, of the Bank’s total loan portfolio. These categories are generally affected by changes in economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax and other laws and acts of nature. A downturn in the real estate markets in which the Company originates, purchases, and services mortgage and other loans could hurt its business because these loans are secured by real estate. Changes in Interest Rates May Have an Adverse Effect on FNB United’s Profitability FNB United’s earnings and financial condition are dependent to a large degree upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. The narrowing of the margin between interest rates earned on loans and investments and the interest rates paid on deposits and borrowings could adversely affect FNB United’s earnings and financial condition. FNB United can neither predict with certainty nor control changes in interest rates. These changes can occur at any time and are affected by many factors, including national, regional and local economic conditions and monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board. FNB United has ongoing policies and procedures designed to manage the risks associated with changes in market interest rates. Notwithstanding these policies and procedures, changes in interest rates may have an adverse effect on FNB United’s profitability. For example, high interest rates could adversely affect FNB United’s mortgage banking business because higher interest rates could cause customers to apply for fewer mortgages or mortgage refinancings. 14 Table of Contents FNB United Faces Significant Operational Risk FNB United processes large volumes of transactions on a daily basis, exposing the Company to numerous types of operational risk. Operational risk includes the risk of fraud or theft by employees or persons outside FNB United, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or recordkeeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems, and breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements. Negative public opinion can result from FNB United’s actual or alleged conduct in a variety of areas, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect FNB United’s ability to attract and retain customers and can expose it to litigation and regulatory action. Operational risk also includes potential legal actions that could arise from an operational deficiency or a as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards. Because the nature of the banking business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are found and corrected. FNB United’s necessary reliance upon automated systems to record and process its transactions may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. FNB United may also be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (e.g., computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. FNB United May Experience Significant Competition in its Market Area, Which May Adversely Affect its Business The banking industry within FNB United’s marketing area is extremely competitive. In addition, FNB United competes with other providers of financial services, such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, insurance companies, finance companies, pension funds and brokerage houses and other money funds. Some of FNB United’s larger competitors include several large interstate financial holding companies that are among the largest in the nation and are headquartered in North Carolina. These companies have a significant presence in FNB United’s market area, have greater resources than FNB United, may have higher lending limits and may offer products and services not offered by FNB United. These institutions may be able to offer the same products and services at more competitive rates and prices. FNB United May Experience Additional Goodwill Impairment As required by generally accepted accounting principles, FNB United periodically reviews its goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be recoverable. For the year ended December 31, 2008, FNB United recorded impairment charges of $57.8 million to write down a portion of goodwill. Approximately $52 million in goodwill continues to be carried as an asset on FNB United’s consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2008. One potential indicator of goodwill impairment is whether FNB United’s fair value, as measured by market capitalization, has remained below net book value for a significant period of time. The average closing price of FNB United common stock for the three months ended December 31, 2008 was $5.02, which corresponds to a market capitalization of $57.4 million, as compared to the net book value of $147.9 million as of December 31, 2008. Whether FNB United’s market capitalization triggers an additional impairment charge will depend on the underlying reasons for the decline in stock price, the significance of the decline, and the length of time the stock price has been depressed. FNB United reviews goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangibles,” and will continue to conduct this review in future quarters. 15 Table of Contents In the event that FNB United determines in a future quarter that an additional impairment exists for any reason, FNB United would record an additional impairment charge in the quarter such determination is made, which would adversely impact FNB United’s financial position and results of operations. FNB United Faces Systems Failure Risks as well as Security Risks, Including “Hacking” and “Identity Theft” The computer systems and network infrastructure used by FNB United could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. The Company’s operations are dependent upon its ability to protect computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, or telecommunications failure. Any failure that causes an interruption in the Company’s operations could adversely affect FNB United’s business and financial results. In addition, the Company’s computer systems and network infrastructure present security risks, and could be susceptible to hacking or identity theft. FNB United’s Business Could Suffer If It Fails to Attract and Retain Skilled People FNB United’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain competent, experienced people. As a result of FNB United’s participation in the CPP, the Company is required to meet certain standards for executive compensation as set forth under the EESA, and related interim regulations. The imposition of compensation limits resulting from the Treasury Department’s investment in FNB United, in addition to other competitive pressures, may have an adverse effect on the ability of FNB United to attract and retain skilled personnel. Changes in Laws and Regulations and the Regulatory Environment Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on FNB United FNB United is extensively regulated under federal and state banking laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. In addition, the Company is subject to changes in federal and state laws as well as changes in banking and credit regulations, and governmental economic and monetary policies. FNB United cannot predict whether any of these changes may adversely and materially affect the Company. The current regulatory environment for financial institutions entails significant potential increases in compliance requirements and associated costs, including those related to consumer credit, with a focus on mortgage lending. Federal and state banking regulators possess broad powers to take supervisory actions as they deem appropriate. These actions may result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums and limitations on FNB United’s activities that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and profitability. In addition, there have been numerous recent actions undertaken by the Treasury Department, Federal Reserve Board, Congress, the FDIC, the SEC and others in efforts to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry. (See discussion of EESA, TARP, and ARRA in “Item 1. Business – Regulation and Supervision.”) Among other things, these measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to help stabilize the U.S. banking system. However, any current or future legislative initiatives may not have their desired effect and could materially and adversely affect FNB United’s financial condition, results of operation, liquidity, or stock price. There Is a Limited Market for FNB United Common Stock 16 Table of Contents Although FNB United common stock is traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, the volume of trading has historically been limited, averaging a few thousand shares per day. Therefore, there can be no assurance that a holder of FNB United common stock who wishes to sell his or her shares would be able to do so immediately or at an acceptable price. Certain Provisions of FNB United’s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws May Discourage Takeovers FNB United’s articles of incorporation and bylaws contain certain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage or may make more difficult or expensive a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by FNB United’s board of directors. In particular, FNB United’s articles of incorporation and bylaws: — classify its board of directors into three classes, so that shareholders elect only one-third of its board of directors each year. — permit FNB United’s board of directors to issue, without shareholder approval unless otherwise required by law, voting preferred stock with such terms as the board may determine, and — require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of FNB United’s voting shares to approve major corporate transactions unless the transaction is approved by three-fourths of FNB United’s “disinterested” directors. These provisions of FNB United’s articles of incorporation and bylaws could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control, even though a majority of FNB United’s shareholders may consider such proposal desirable. Such provisions could also make it more difficult for third parties to remove and replace the members of FNB United’s board of directors. They may also inhibit increases in the trading price of FNB United’s common stock that could result from takeover attempts. FNB United May Not Be Able to Successfully Integrate Bank or Nonbank Mergers and Acquisitions Difficulties may arise in the integration of the business and operations of bank holding companies, banks and other non-bank entities FNB United acquires and, as a result, FNB United may not be able to achieve the cost savings and synergies that it expects will result from such transactions. Achieving cost savings is dependent on consolidating certain operational and functional areas, eliminating duplicative positions and terminating certain agreements for outside services. Additional operational savings are dependent upon the integration of the acquired or merged entity’s businesses with FNB United or one of its subsidiaries, the conversion of core operating systems, data systems and products and the standardization of business practices. Complications or difficulties in the conversion of the core operating systems, data systems and products may result in the loss of customers, damage to FNB United’s reputation within the financial services industry, operational problems, one-time costs currently not anticipated or reduced cost savings resulting from such mergers or acquisitions. Annual cost savings in each such transaction may be materially less than anticipated if the holding company, bank merger or nonbank merger or acquisition is delayed unexpectedly, the integration of operations is delayed beyond what is anticipated or the conversion to a single data system is not accomplished on a timely basis. Difficulty in integrating an acquired company may cause FNB United not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence and/or other projected benefits from the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition (run-off), loss of key employees, disruption of FNB United’s businesses or the businesses of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect FNB United’s ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. The Treasury Department’s Investment in FNB United Imposes Restrictions and Obligations Limiting FNB United’s Ability to Increase Dividends, Repurchase Common Stock or Preferred Stock and Access the Equity Capital Markets 17 Table of Contents In February 2009, FNB United issued preferred stock and a warrant to purchase common stock to the Treasury Department under the CPP. Prior to February 13, 2012, unless FNB United has redeemed all of the preferred stock, or the Treasury Department has transferred all of the preferred stock to a third party, the consent of the Treasury Department will be required for FNB United to, among other things, increase common stock dividends or effect repurchases of common stock or other equity or capital securities (with certain exceptions, including the repurchase of FNB United Corp. common stock to offset share dilution from equity-based employee compensation awards). FNB United’s ability to declare or pay dividends or repurchase its common stock or other equity or capital securities is also subject to restrictions in the event that FNB United fails to declare and pay full dividends (or declare and set aside a sum sufficient for payment thereof) on the preferred stock held by the Treasury Department. Other Risks There are risks and uncertainties relating to an investment in FNB United common stock or to economic conditions and regulatory matters generally that should affect other financial institutions in similar ways. These aspects are discussed under “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and “Regulation and Supervision” elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 