Item 1A. Risk Factors. We will need additional capital to finance existing obligations and to fund our operations and growth and we may not be able to obtain additional capital at all, or to obtain capital under terms acceptable to us. We are seeking to raise $5 million additional capital. We anticipate that this amount of capital, if fully raised, will satisfy our financial obligations for approximately 24 months. Our capital requirements in connection with our marketing efforts, continuing product development and purchases of inventory and parts are expected to be significant for the foreseeable future. In addition, unanticipated events could cause our revenues to be lower and our costs to be higher than expected, therefore creating the need for additional capital. Historically, cash generated from operations has not been sufficient to fund our capital requirements, and we have relied upon sales of securities, and loans from our officers to fund our operations. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient funds available t o meet our working capital requirements, or that we will be able to obtain capital to finance operations on favorable terms or at all. If we do not have, or are otherwise unable to secure necessary working capital, we may be unable to fund the continued manufacture of PureSafe units, and we may have to delay or abandon some or all of our development and expansion plans or otherwise forego market opportunities, any of which could harm our business. We have a history of losses and we may continue to incur losses in the future and/or we may never achieve or maintain profitability. Our financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern. We have incurred recurring losses from operations, an accumulated deficit since its inception of approximately $32.2 million and $2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, and has a working capital deficiency of approximately $1.7 million as of December 31, 2009. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accountants have stated in their report that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have limited cash resources and have a working capital deficit. Our independent registered public accountants have stated in their report that they have a substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. By being categorized in this manner, we may find it more difficult in the short term to either locate financing for future projects or to identify lenders willing to provide loans at attractive rates, which may require us to use our font>cash reserves in order to expand. Should this occur, and unforeseen events also require greater cash expenditures than expected, we could be forced to cease all or a part of our operations. We plan to expand and we may be unable to manage our growth. We intend to grow our business, but we cannot be sure that we will successfully manage our growth. In order to successfully manage our growth, we must: 路 expand and enhance our administrative infrastructure; 路 improve our management, financial and information systems and controls; 路 expand, train and manage our employees effectively; and 路 successfully retain and recruit additional employees. Continued growth could place a further strain on our management, operations and financial resources. We cannot assure that our operating and financial control systems, administrative infrastructure, facilities and personnel will be adequate to support our future operations or to effectively adapt to future growth. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, our business may be harmed. 11 Technological change and competition may render our potential products obsolete. The water purification industry continues to undergo rapid change, competition is intense and we expect it to continually increase. Competitors may succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective or affordable than any that we are developing or that would render our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Many of our competitors have substantially greater experience, financial and technical resources and production and development& #160;capabilities than we do. Accordingly, some of our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for products more rapidly or effectively than we can for technologies and products that are more effective and/or affordable than any that we are developing. Product liability exposure may expose us to significant liability. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability and other claims and lawsuits in the event that the development or use of our technology or prospective products is alleged to have resulted in adverse effects. We may not be able to avoid significant liability exposure. We maintain a $4,000,000 general and product liability policy which covers the manufacture and marketing of our products. Although we believe our insurance coverage to be adequate, we may not have sufficient insurance coverage, and we may not be able to obtain sufficient coverage at a reasonable cost. An inability to obtain product liability insurance at acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products. A product liability claim could hurt our financial performance. Even if we avoid liability exposure, significant costs could be incurred that could hurt our financial performance and condition. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights may force us to incur unanticipated costs. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and maintain protection in the United States and other countries for certain intellectual property incorporated into our water purification systems and our proprietary methodologies. Our patent applications for our products are currently pending, and there is no guarantee that such patents will be granted, and if they are not, we may be unable to obtain patents relating to our technology. Even if issued, patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvente d, which could limit our ability to prevent competitors from marketing similar solutions that limit the effectiveness of our patent protection and force us to incur unanticipated costs. In addition, existing laws of some countries in which we may provide services or solutions may offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights. Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, and third parties may infringe our proprietary rights, either of which may result in lawsuits, distraction of management and the impairment of our business. As the number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights in our industry increases, products based on our technology may increasingly become the subject of infringement claims. Third parties could assert infringement claims against us in the future. Infringement claims with or without merit could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agr eements. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, might not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Litigation to determine the validity of any claims, whether or not the litigation is resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel from productive tasks. If there is an adverse ruling against us in any ;litigation, we may be required to pay substantial damages, discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses to infringing technology. Our failure to develop or license a substitute technology could prevent us from selling our products. We will face substantial competition in marketing our PureSafe FRWS. We will experience competition from a large number of more established firms in the market for water purification systems. Many of these companies are much larger and have substantially greater financial resources than us. In addition, our potential competitors in many cases already have customers to which they have sold water purification systems and these systems have an operating track record, in contrast to our FRWS which is a relatively new product.in the market. 12 We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future, which could adversely affect the price of our Common Stock. We, by reason of our anticipated financial status and our contemplated financial requirements, do not contemplate or anticipate paying any dividends upon our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends in the future will be dependent upon the amount of funds legally available, the earnings, financial conditions, capital requirements and other factors that the board of directors may think are relevant. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Disclosure under Item 1B is not required of smaller reporting companies. 