ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us and our business. If any of these risks were to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Competition We face significant competition for banking services in coastal Maine, the primary market in which we operate. Competition in the local banking industry may limit our ability to attract and retain customers. We may face competition now and in the future from the following: other banking institutions, including larger regional and national commercial banking organizations; savings banks; credit unions; other financial institutions; and non-bank financial services companies. In particular, our competitors include major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits, which enable them to serve the credit needs of larger customers. We also face competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries that have opened loan production offices or solicit deposits through the internet. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers we may be unable to continue our loan growth and level of deposits and our results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be negatively affected. In the past, we have expanded our operations into non-banking activities such as asset management and wealth advisory services. We may have difficulty competing with more established providers of these products and services due to the intense competition in these service sectors. In addition, we may be unable to attract and retain non-banking customers due to our lack of market and product knowledge or other industry specific matters or an inability to attract and retain qualified, experienced employees. Our failure to attract and retain customers with respect to these non-banking activities could negatively impact our future earnings. Interest Rate Risk Our main source of income is net interest income, which is equal to the difference between the interest income received on loans, investment securities and other interest-bearing assets and the interest expense incurred in connection with deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. As a result, our net interest income can be affected by changes in market interest rates. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, both domestic and foreign, and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. We have asset and liability management policies that attempt to minimize the potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on our net interest income, primarily by altering the mix and maturity of loans, investments and funding sources. However, even with these policies in place, we cannot provide assurance that changes in interest rates will not negatively impact our operating results. For a further discussion on the Company's exposure to interest rate risk, see Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Furthermore, our banking business is affected not only by general economic conditions, but also by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary or legislative policies may affect the interest rates we must offer to attract deposits and the interest rates we can charge on our loans, as well as the manner in which we offer deposits and make loans. These monetary policies have had, and are expected to continue to have, significant effects on the operating results of depository institutions, including the Bank. Increases in interest rates also may reduce the demand for loans and, as a result, the amount of loan and commitment fees the Bank receives. Credit Risk A number of factors can impact the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations, which could not only result in increased loan defaults, foreclosures and write-offs, but also necessitate further increases to our allowance for loan losses. If customers default on the repayment of their loans, our profitability could be adversely affected. A borrower's default on its obligations under one or more of our loans may result in lost principal and interest income and increased operating expenses as a result of the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work-out of the loans. If collection efforts are unsuccessful or acceptable workout arrangements cannot be reached, we may have to write-off the loans in whole or in part. Although we may acquire any real estate or other assets that secure the defaulted loans through foreclosure or other similar remedies, the amount owed under the defaulted loans may exceed the value of the assets acquired. Management periodically makes a determination of our allowance for loan losses based on available information, including the quality of our loan portfolio, economic conditions, the value of the underlying collateral and the level of Page 7 our non-accruing loans. If assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance may not be sufficient. Increases in this allowance will result in an expense for the period. If, as a result of general economic conditions or an increase in non-performing loans, management determines that an increase in our allowance for loan losses is necessary, we may incur additional expenses. As an integral part of their examination process, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and the value we attribute to real estate acquired through foreclosure or other similar remedies. These regulatory agencies may require us to adjust our determination of the value of these items. These adjustments could negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition. Because we serve primarily individuals and smaller businesses located in coastal Maine, the ability of customers to repay their loans is impacted by the economic conditions in this area. In addition, our ability to continue to originate loans may be impaired by adverse changes in local and regional economic conditions. These events also could have an adverse effect on the value of our collateral and our financial condition. In the course of business, we may acquire, through foreclosure, properties securing loans that are in default. In commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on these properties. In this event, we might be required to remove these substances from the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of this removal could exceed the value of the affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owners or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. The occurrence of one or more of these events could adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. Liquidity and Funding We have traditionally obtained funds principally through deposits and borrowings. As a general matter, deposits are a lower cost source of funds than borrowings, because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for borrowings. If, as a result of competitive pressures, market interest rates, general economic conditions or other events, the balance of our deposits decreases relative to our overall banking operations, we may have to rely more heavily on borrowings as a source of funds in the future. Such an increased reliance on borrowings could have a negative impact on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, fluctuations in interest rates may result in disintermediation, which is the flow of funds away from depository institutions into direct investments that pay higher rates of return, and may affect the value of our investment securities and other interest-earning assets. Regulation Bank holding companies and nationally chartered banks operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and examination by various regulatory agencies. The Company is subject to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board, or FRB. The Bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or the OCC. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters including: changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies; maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution; permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments; permissible non-banking activities; the level of reserves against deposits; and restrictions on dividend payments. The OCC possesses cease and desist powers to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulation, and the Federal Reserve Board possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. These and other restrictions limit the manner in which we may conduct our business and obtain financing. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, we must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. If we fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to maintain the status of "well capitalized" under our regulatory framework could affect the confidence of our customers in us, thus compromising our competitive position. In addition, failure to maintain the status of "well capitalized" under our regulatory framework or "well managed" under regulatory examination procedures could compromise our status as a bank holding company and related eligibility for a streamlined review process for acquisition proposals. Electronic Systems We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure or interruptions or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposits, servicing or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any of these could result in a loss of customer business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Page 8 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 