ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us and our business. If any of these risks were to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations may adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Act”) was enacted on July 21, 2010. The Act creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with power to promulgate and enforce consumer protection laws. Smaller institutions, those with $10 billion or less in assets (such as the Company), will be subject to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s rule-writing authority, and existing depository institution regulatory agencies will retain examination and enforcement authority for such institutions. The Act also establishes a Financial Stability Oversight Council chaired by the Secretary of the Treasury with authority to identify institutions and practices that might pose a systemic risk and, among other things, includes provisions affecting (1) corporate governance and executive compensatio n of all companies whose securities are registered with the SEC, (2) FDIC insurance assessments, (3) interchange fees for debit cards, which would be set by the Federal Reserve under a restrictive “reasonable and proportional cost” per transaction standard, (4) minimum capital levels for bank holding companies, subject to a grandfather clause for financial institutions (such as the Company) with less than $15 billion in assets, (5) derivative and proprietary trading by financial institutions, and (6) the resolution of large financial institutions crisis. Financial Stability – addresses the core purpose of the bill by creating a new oversight regulator, the Financial Stability Oversight Council. This council of regulators will monitor the financial system for “systemic risk” and will determine which entities pose significant systemic risk. Generally speaking, it will make recommendations to regulators for the implementation of the increased risk standards, also known as prudential regulation, to be applied to bank-holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more and to designated nonbanks. The Act grandfathers trust preferred securities issued before May 19, 2010 by bank holding companies with less than $15 billion in total assets. Orderly Liquidation Authority –establishes a framework for the liquidation by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) of large institutions that pose systemic risk. The Treasury supplies liquidity for the liquidation that must be paid back in 60 months. Enhancing Financial Institution Safety and Soundness – merges the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”) into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”), the Bank’s primary regulator. The OTS regulatory responsibilities will be spread among other regulators. The Federal Reserve will regulate savings and loan holding companies, the OCC will regulate federal savings associations, and the FDIC will regulate state-chartered savings associations. The transfer of functions is to occur on the date one year from the date of enactment but may be extended for up to eighteen months from the date of enactment. The regulators are required to issue regulations for the entities that are newly under their regulatory umbrella no later than the date of the transfer of the functions. Ninety days after the transfer, the OTS will go out of existence and its employees will become employees of the OCC or the FDIC. For the Bank, a key provision in this title changes the assessment base for deposit insurance. Before, the base was domestic deposits less tangible equity. The new base will be average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity. The result is that larger financial institutions, which have more non-deposit liabilities, will pay a greater percentage of the aggregate insurance assessment and smaller banks (such as the Bank) will pay less than they would have, perhaps as much as $4.5 billion less over the next three years. Another key provision for the Bank is the permanent increase in FDIC deposit insurance per depositor in the aggregate from $100,000 to $250,000, and the extension of the unlimited deposit coverage for non-interest bearing transaction accounts for two years. HR 4173 increases the minimum reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance F und from 1.15 percent to 1.35 percent, but exempts institutions (such as the Bank) with assets of less than $10 billion from the cost of the increase. Improvements to Regulation of Bank and Savings Association Holding Companies and Depository Institutions –implements the so-called modified Volcker Rule. The rule limits the ability of certain bank and bank-related entities to engage in proprietary trading or investing in hedge funds and private equity funds to 3 percent of the entity’s Tier 1 capital, among other restrictions. “Proprietary trading” is defined to include the purchase or sale of any security, any derivative, any contract for the sale of a commodity for future delivery, or option on such instrument. The key The First Bancorp 2010 Form 10-K Page 8 provisions in this title are a moratorium on deposit insurance applications for three years for new credit card banks, industrial loan companies and trust banks owned by commercial companies, the expansion of the definition of affiliate transactions to cover certain kinds of security transactions such as repurchase agreement, derivative transaction and securities borrowing; and the codification of the source of strength doctrine, the long-time view of the Federal Reserve that a holding company should serve as a source of financial strength for its subsidiary banks. Regulation of Over-the-Counter Swaps Markets – imposes exchange trading for derivatives contracts and imposes new capital and margin requirements and various reporting obligations on Over The Counter (“OTC”) swap dealers and major OTC swap participants. For the Bank, the most important provision in this title levels the competitive playing field by prohibiting the Federal Reserve or the FDIC from providing assistance to insured depository institutions involved in the swaps markets, with certain exceptions. Payment, Clearing, and Settlement Supervision – allows for a systemic approach to certain financial market payment, payment, clearing and settlement systems. Designation of a large financial institution as “systemically important” will require two-thirds of the Financial Stability Oversight Council. Investor Protections and Improvements to the Regulation of Securities – has a number of provisions intended to protect investors, including for example: risk retention requirements for certain asset-backed securities; reforms to regulation of credit rating agencies; establishing an Investor Advisory Committee and an Office of Investor Advocate, and requiring the SEC to study whether a fiduciary duty standard of care for broker-dealers providing personalized investment advice to a retail customer should be created. For the Bank, the most important section of this Title establishes a number of changes to corporate governance procedures for public companies that ultimately, and perhaps quickly, will become the “best practices” (if not the expected practices) for all co rporations large and small. The most important of these are: proxy access requirements for shareholders; disclosures about the failure to separate the role of the chair of board and chief executive officer; non-binding shareholder voting on executive compensation; the establishment of an independent compensation committee; executive compensation disclosures and clawbacks. In addition, the Federal Reserve is required to issue regulations regarding incentive-based pay practices within nine months of the effective date of the Act; these regulations will apply to institutions (such as the Bank) with more than $1 billion in assets. Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection – the most important title in the Act for the Bank. It will alter in dramatic fashion the way consumer credit is regulated, moving from the current framework of the federal regulation of disclosure and the state law regulation of fairness and suitability, to an overall, nationwide federal suitability framework. It establishes the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, an independent entity housed within the Federal Reserve in order to provide a source of funding (initially $500 million) and gives the Bureau the authority to prohibit practices that it finds to be “unfair,” “deceptive,” or “abusive” in addition to requiring certain disclosures. The words “unfair” and “deceptive” appear to reference and incorporate similar words in the enabling legislation of the Federal Trade Commission and some state consumer legislation. The “abusive” addition to this grant of regulatory scope is new and it is likely that defining the meaning of this term in this context will produce additional regulation and litigation. The Bureau may also prohibit mandatory consumer arbitration provisions and it will oversee mortgage reform. For the Bank, in addition to creation of the Bureau, this Title also contains a number of other important provisions. It limits interchange fees for debit card transactions (including those involved with certain prepaid card products) to an amount established as reasonable under regulations to be issued by the Federal Reserve. Cards issued by banks with less than $10 billion in assets are exempt from this requirement although this exemption has been criticized as being ineffective because small banks may be forced by market dynamics to match the rates being offer ed by their larger competitors. The Bank has estimated this provision will result in the loss of several hundred thousand dollars in revenue per year. Another key change for the Bank is the Act’s treatment of preemption. Essentially, the Act will undo recent court decisions and OCC guidance that expanded the application of preemption to subsidiaries of national banks. The standard for the preemption of state law is to return to the one enunciated in a well-known court decision, Barnet Bank v. Nelson: “irreconcilable conflict” and “stand as an obstacle to the accomplishment” of the purpose of the federal law. The Act also codified the result in a recent U.S. Supreme Court decision that the visitorial powers provisions of the National Bank Act do not limit the authority of state attorneys general to bring actions against national banks to enforce state consumer protection laws. Federal Reserve System Revisions – gives the Government Accountability Office authority to conduct a one-time audit of the Federal Reserve’s emergency lending during the credit crisis and gives the GAO other auditing responsibilities over the Federal Reserve. The title also tightens the conditions under which the Fed may provide emergency assistance to institutions and authorizes the FDIC to guarantee debts of banks and bank holding companies. The First Bancorp 2010 Form 10-K Page 9 Improving Access to Mainstream Financial Institutions – is intended to provide alternatives to payday loans. This title is intended to encourage low-and moderate-income individuals to create accounts in insured depository institutions and it creates a program to provide low-cost loans of $2,500 or less. Pay It Back Act – a largely technical section dealing with previous programs for emergency assistance to insured financial institutions. It decreases the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) funds authorized by under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 from $700 billion to $475 billion. Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act – places new regulations on mortgage originators and imposes new disclosure requirements and appraisal reforms, the most important of which are: the creation of a mortgage originator duty of care, the establishment of certain underwriting requirements so that at the time of origination the consumer has a reasonable ability to repay the loan; the creation of document requirements intended to eliminate “no document” and “low document” loans, the prohibition of steering incentives for mortgage originators; a prohibition on yield spread premiums, and prepayment penalties in many cases; and a provision that allows borrowers to assert as a foreclosure defense a contention that the lender violated the anti-steering restrictions or the reasonable repayment requirements. For the Bank, the key in the immediate future is watching the regulatory implementation of HR 4173. There are tens, if not hundreds, of new regulatory initiatives arising from the Act. Although most should have little impact on the Bank, some will be critical. The most critical ones for the Bank will be those concerning capital requirements and consumer lending. Recent negative developments in the financial services industry and U.S. and global credit markets may adversely impact our operations and results. Negative developments between 2007 and 2010 in the capital markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing in 2011 and perhaps beyond 2011. The impact of this situation, together with concerns regarding the financial strength of financial institutions, has led to distress in credit markets and issues relating to liquidity among financial institutions. Some financial institutions around the world and the United States have failed; others have been forced to seek acquisition partners. Loan portfolio value has deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, amongst other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. The United States and other governments have taken unprecedented steps to try to stabilize the financial system, including investing in financial institutions. Our business and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by (1) continued or accelerated disruption and volatility in financial markets, (2) continued capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally and our counterparties specifically, (3) recessionary conditions that are deeper or last longer than currently anticipated, or (4) new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and the likelihood that financial institution regulatory agencies will be very aggr essive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of formal enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. There can be no assurance that the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (“EESA”), the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, and other initiatives undertaken by the United States government to restore liquidity and stability to the U.S. financial system will help stabilize and stimulate the U.S. financial system. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. banking system. The EESA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. There can be no assurance regarding the actual impact that the EESA or the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or other programs and other initiatives undertaken by the U.S. government, will have on the financial markets; the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced may persist. The failure of the EESA or other government programs to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or wo rsening of current financial market conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In the event turmoil in the financial markets continues, we may experience a material adverse effect from (1) continued or accelerated disruption and volatility in financial markets, (2) continued capital and liquidity concerns The First Bancorp 2010 Form 10-K Page 10 regarding financial institutions generally and our transaction counterparties specifically, (3) limitations resulting from further governmental action to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, or (4) recessionary conditions that are deeper or last longer than currently anticipated. The soundness of other financial services institutions may adversely affect our credit risk. We rely on other financial services institutions through trading, clearing, counterparty, and other relationships. We maintain limits and monitor concentration levels of our counterparties as specified in our internal policies. Our reliance on other financial services institutions exposes us to credit risk in the event of default by these institutions or counterparties. These losses could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Declines in value may adversely impact the investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2010, we had $293.2 million and $107.4 million in available for sale and held to maturity investment securities, respectively. We may be required to record impairment charges on our investment securities if they suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect on our investment portfolio in future periods. If an impairment charge is significant enough it could affect the ability of the Bank to renew funding. This could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to upstream d ividends to the Company and for the Company to then pay dividends to shareholders. It could also negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios and result in our not being classified as “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes. Regulation. Bank holding companies and nationally chartered banks operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and examination by various regulatory agencies. The Company is subject to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. The Bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or the OCC. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters including: changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies; maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution; permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments; permissible non-banking activities; the level of reserves against deposits; and restrictions on dividend payments. The OCC possesses cease and desist powers to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulation, and the Federal Reserve Board possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. These and other restrictions limit the manner in which we may conduct our business and obtain financing. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, we must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. If we fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to maintain the status of “well-capitalized” under our regulatory framework could affect the confidence of our customers in us, thus compromising our competitive position. Interest rate risk. Our main source of income is net interest income, which is equal to the difference between the interest income received on loans, investment securities and other interest-bearing assets and the interest expense incurred in connection with deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. As a result, our net interest income can be affected by changes in market interest rates. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, both domestic and foreign, and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. We have asset and liability management policies that attempt to minimize the potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on our net interest income, primarily by altering the mix and maturity of loans, investments and funding sources. However, even with these policies in place, we cannot provide assurance that changes in interest rates will not negatively impact our operating results. For a further discussion on the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk, see Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Furthermore, our banking business is affected not only by general economic conditions, but also by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary or legislative policies may affect the interest rates we must offer to attract deposits and the interest rates we can charge on our loans, as well as the manner in which we offer deposits and make loans. These monetary policies have had, and are expected to continue to have, significant effects on the operating results of depository institutions, including the Bank. Increases in interest rates also may reduce the The First Bancorp 2010 Form 10-K Page 11 demand for loans and, as a result, the amount of loan and commitment fees the Bank receives. Credit risk. A number of factors can impact the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations, which could not only result in increased loan defaults, foreclosures and write-offs, but also necessitate further increases to our allowance for loan losses. If customers default on the repayment of their loans, our profitability could be adversely affected. A borrower’s default on its obligations under one or more of our loans may result in lost principal and interest income and increased operating expenses as a result of the allocation of Management time and resources to the collection and work-out of the loans. If collection efforts are unsuccessful or acceptable workout arrangements cannot be reached, we may have to write-off the loans in whole or in part. Although we may acquire real estate or other assets that secure the defaulted loans through foreclosure or other similar remedies, the amount owed under the defaulted loans may exceed the value of the assets acquired. Management periodically makes a determination of our allowance for loan losses based on available information, including the quality of our loan portfolio, economic conditions, the value of the underlying collateral and the level of our non-accruing loans. If assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance may not be sufficient. Increases in this allowance will result in an expense for the period. If, as a result of general economic conditions or an increase in non-performing loans, Management determines that an increase in our allowance for loan losses is necessary, we may incur additional expenses. As an integral part of their examination processes, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and the value we attribute to real estate acquired through foreclosure or other similar remedies. These regulatory agencies may require us to adjust our determination of the value of these items. These adjustments could negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition. Because we serve primarily individuals and smaller businesses located in coastal Maine, the ability of customers to repay their loans is impacted by the economic conditions in this area. In addition, our ability to continue to originate loans consistent with our credit criteria may be impaired by adverse changes in local and regional economic conditions. These events also could have an adverse effect on the value of our collateral and our financial condition. In the course of business, we may acquire, through foreclosure, properties securing loans that are in default. In commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on these properties. In this event, we might be required to remove these substances from the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of this removal could exceed the value of the affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owners or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. The occurrence of one or more of these events could adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. Liquidity and funding. We have traditionally obtained funds principally through deposits and borrowings. As a general matter, deposits are a lower-cost source of funds than borrowings, because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for borrowings. If, as a result of competitive pressures, market interest rates, general economic conditions or other events, the balance of our deposits decreases relative to our overall banking operations, we may have to rely more heavily on borrowings as a source of funds in the future. Such an increased reliance on borrowings could have a negative impact on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, fluctuations in interest rates may result in disintermediation, which is the flow of funds away from depository institutions into direct investments that pay higher rates of return, and may affect the value of our investment securities and other interest-earning assets. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole should the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwide credit markets continue or worsen. Loss of lower-cost funding sources. Checking and savings, NOW, and money market deposit account balances and other forms of customer deposits can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, we could lose a relatively low-cost source of funds, increasing our funding costs and reducing our net interest income and net income. Advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston (“FHLB”) are currently a relatively low-cost source of funding. The availability of qualified collateral on the Bank’s balance sheet determines the level of advances available from FHLB and a deterioration in quality in the Bank’s loan portfolio can adversely impact the availability of this source of funding. The First Bancorp 2010 Form 10-K Page 12 Competition in the financial services industry. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources than we do. We compete with other providers of financial services such as commercial and savings banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, money market and mutual funds, mortgage companies, asset managers, insurance companies and a wide array of other local, regional and national institutions which offer financial services. Mergers between financial institutions within Maine and in neighboring states have added competitive pressure. If we are unable to compete effectively, we will lose market share and our income generated from loans, deposits, and other financial products will decline. Allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. The Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, national and regional economic conditions, historical loss experience and delinquency trends. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the size of the allowance for loan losses, we rely on our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions. However, we cannot predict loan losses with certainty, and we cannot provide assurance that charge-offs in future periods will not exceed the allowance for loan losses. During 2010, the Bank experienced incremental increases in both non-performing loans and net loan charge-offs, as compared to prior periods. No assu rance can be given that the relevant economic and market conditions will improve or will not further deteriorate. Hence, the persistence or worsening of such conditions could result in an increase in delinquencies, could cause a decrease in our interest income, or could continue to have an adverse impact on our loan loss experience, which, in turn, may necessitate increases to our allowance for loan losses. If net charge-offs exceed the Bank’s allowance, its earnings would decrease. In addition, regulatory agencies review the Bank’s allowance for loan losses and may require additions to the allowance based on their judgment about information available to them at the time of their examination. Management could also decide that the allowance for loan losses should be increased. An increase in the Bank’s allowance for loan losses could reduce its earnings. Changes in primary market area could adversely impact results of operations and financial condition. Most of the Bank’s lending is in Mid-Coast and Down East Maine. As a result of this geographic concentration, a significant broad-based deterioration in economic conditions in this area or Northern New England could have a material adverse impact on the quality of the Bank’s loan portfolio, and accordingly, our results of operations. Such a decline in economic conditions could impair borrowers’ ability to pay outstanding principal and interest on loans when due and, consequently, adversely affect the cash flows of our business. The Bank’s loan portfolio is largely secured by real estate collateral. A substantial portion of the real and personal property securing the loans in the Bank’s portfolio is located in Mid-Coast and Down East Maine. Conditions in the real estate market in which the collateral for the Bank’s loans is located strongly influence the level of the Bank’s non-performing loans and results of operations. The recent decline in the Mid-Coast and Down East Maine area real estate values, as well as other external factors, could adversely affect the Bank’s loan portfolio. Operational risk and dependence on key personnel. We face the risk that the design of our controls and procedures, including those to mitigate the risk of fraud by employees or outsiders, may prove to be inadequate or are circumvented, thereby causing delays in detection of errors or inaccuracies in data and information. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial con dition. We may also be subject to disruptions of our systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to losses in service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as are we) and to the risk that our (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. There is intense competition in the financial services industry for qualified employees. In addition, we face increasing competition with businesses outside the financial services industry for the most highly skilled individuals. Our business operations could be adversely affected if we were unable to attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing employees. The First Bancorp 2010 Form 10-K Page 13 Claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility or lender liability. From time to time as part of our normal course of business, customers make claims and take legal action against the Bank based on actions or inactions of the Bank. If such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Company and its products and services. This may also impact customer demand for the Company’s products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There may not be a robust trading market for the common stock. Although our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select market, the trading volume of the common stock has historically not been substantial. Over the five-year period ending December 31, 2010, for example, the average monthly trading volume of our common stock has been 207,029 shares or approximately 2.12% of the outstanding common stock. Due to the limited trading volume in our common stock, the intraday spread between bid and ask prices of the shares can be quite high. There can be no assurance that a more robust, active or economical trading market for our common stock will develop. The market value and liquidity of our common stock may, as a result, be adversely affected. The price of our common stock may fluctuate. The price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market constantly changes and recently, given the uncertainty in the financial markets, has fluctuated widely. We expect the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. Holders of our common stock will be subject to the risk of volatility and changes in prices. Our common stock price can fluctuate as a result of many factors which are beyond our control, including: · quarterly fluctuations in our operating and financial results; · operating results that vary from the expectations of Management, securities analysts and investors; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts; · events negatively impacting the financial services industry which result in a general decline for the industry; · announcements of material developments affecting our operations or our dividend policy; · future sales of our equity securities; · new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; and · general domestic economic and market conditions. In addition, recently the stock market generally has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, and industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of our operating results. Future offerings of debt or other securities may adversely affect the market price of our stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if our or the Bank’s capital ratios approach or fall below the required minimums, we or the Bank could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the value for existing Shareholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. The First Bancorp 2010 Form 10-K Page 14 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 