ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business and Other Matters Royalty and manufacturing revenue from sales of ERBITUX represent a substantial portion of our revenues. If ERBITUX does not receive continued market acceptance, sales may not continue and we may not earn sufficient revenues. Our future growth and a significant portion of our future revenues depend on the continued commercial success of ERBITUX, our only FDA-approved product. We cannot be certain that ERBITUX will continue to be licensed or approved in the U.S. or in any foreign market. A number of factors may affect the rate and level of market acceptance of ERBITUX, including: •The perception by physicians and other members of the healthcare community of ERBITUX's safety or efficacy or that of competing products; •The effectiveness of our and BMS' sales and marketing efforts in the U.S. and the effectiveness of Merck KGaA's sales and marketing efforts outside the U.S.; •The ability to obtain additional FDA approvals to market ERBITUX in additional treatment indications and tumor types; •Any unfavorable publicity concerning the Company, ERBITUX or competitive drugs; •The price of ERBITUX relative to other drugs or competing treatments; •The availability and level of third-party reimbursement for sales of ERBITUX; •Emerging biomarker data (e.g. mutated or wild type forms of the KRAS) and how it is interpreted by physicians; •A change in government regulation which would allow the entry of generic products in the market could cause a significant decline in sales; •The continued availability of adequate supplies of ERBITUX to meet demand; and •Regulatory developments related to the manufacture or continued use of ERBITUX. If ERBITUX does not continue to be accepted, our revenues would decline, which would impact our profitability and the price of our common stock. 39 We depend on BMS and Merck KGaA to co-promote market and sell ERBITUX. If either BMS or Merck KGaA becomes unable to meet its obligations, or we fail to adequately maintain our relationship with these partners, it would negatively impact our revenues and harm our business. Under our agreement with BMS, BMS has the exclusive right to distribute ERBITUX in the U.S. and Canada, in exchange for which we receive royalty payments of 39% of BMS' net sales of ERBITUX in the U.S. and Canada. Under our agreement with Merck KGaA, Merck has the exclusive right to market ERBITUX outside of the U.S., Canada and Japan, in exchange for which we receive royalty payments of 9.5% of Merck KGaA's net sales of ERBITUX. These royalty payments from BMS and Merck represent a significant portion of our current revenues. In addition, we receive milestone payments and reimbursements of various regulatory and clinical expenses, as well as certain marketing and administrative expenses from BMS and Merck. Recently, we amended the Commercial Agreement with BMS to expand the on-going clinical development plan for ERBITUX by up to several hundred million dollars with development costs, up to threshold amounts, being the sole responsibility of BMS and costs in excess of the thresholds shared by both companies according to a pre-determined ratio. Our reliance on these relationships creates a number of potential risks, including the risk that our corporate partners may not devote sufficient resources to our programs or product. If either BMS or Merck becomes unable to market effectively and sell sufficient quantities of ERBITUX, or otherwise unable to meet its contractual obligations, our revenues and/or profitability may be negatively impacted due to decreased revenues or increased commercial expenses on our part. On February 27, 2008, the Company received verbal notification from Merck KGaA that Merck KGaA was taking the position that the Yeda Settlement Agreement of December 7, 2007 resulted in the breach of one of the Company's representations in the Development License Agreement and that, therefore, Merck KGaA was no longer obligated to reimburse a portion of the royalty payments paid by ImClone to Yeda and Sanofi-Aventis following the date of that agreement. The Company is attempting to determine the effect on it of the Merck KGaA notification and its rights and obligations relating thereto. We operate in a highly competitive industry, including in terms of product pricing, that is subject to rapid and significant technological change. The pharmaceutical industry in which we operate is highly competitive. Our present and potential competitors include major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as specialty pharmaceutical firms. Certain of these companies have considerably greater financial, research, clinical, regulatory, manufacturing, and marketing resources than we do. We have already experienced significant competition to ERBITUX from Avastin® (bevacizumab) (a non-chemotherapeutic biopharmaceutical product manufactured by Genentech, Inc. and approved by the FDA as first- and second-line treatment for patients with metastatic colorectal cancer and as first-line treatment in non-small cell lung cancer). Xeloda® (capecitabine) (a chemotherapeutic biopharmaceutical product manufactured by Roche Laboratories, Inc. and also approved by the FDA as a first-line treatment for patients with metastatic colorectal cancer), and Vectibix™ (panitumumab) (an IgG2 anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody manufactured by Amgen and approved by the FDA as a single-agent for patients where 5-fluorouracil, oxaliplatin and irinotecan have failed and in the European Union as a single-agent in patients with KRAS WT) have also presented competitive challenges. We believe that, notwithstanding the fact that the FDA has approved Avastin®, Xeloda®, Vectibix™ and ERBITUX for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer in different indications, physicians have prescribed each outside of their approved indications and within ERBITUX's approved indications. ERBITUX is priced at a premium to all of these agents for a monthly course of therapy. We are also aware of products in development at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies that, if successful in clinical trials and approved for marketing, may be priced competitively and compete with ERBITUX for the indications for which we have FDA or EMEA approval, or for indications for which we are seeking, or may seek, FDA or EMEA approval. Business arrangements among our competitors may increase competition and 40 the resources available to these competitors. In addition, the pharmaceutical industry has undergone, and is expected to continue to undergo, rapid and significant technological change, and we expect competition to increase with technical advances. The development of products or processes by our competitors with significant advantages over those that we are seeking to develop could cause the marketability of our products to stagnate or decline. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation. If we are unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals for our product or product candidates, we will not be able to market our product or further develop our product candidates. We are subject to stringent regulation with respect to product safety and efficacy by various international and U.S. federal, state and local authorities. Of particular significance are the FDA's requirements covering research and development, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling and promotion of drugs for human use. Any biopharmaceutical that we may develop cannot be marketed in the U.S. until it has been approved by the FDA, and then can only be marketed for the indications and claims approved by the FDA. As a result of these requirements, the length of time, the level of expenditures and the laboratory and clinical information required for approval of an NDA or a BLA, or any supplements thereto, are substantial and can require a number of years, and the ability to obtain regulatory approval is uncertain. In addition, after any of our products receives regulatory approval, it remains subject to ongoing FDA regulation, including with respect to, for example, changes to the product, its manufacturing or label, new or revised regulatory requirements for manufacturing practices, additional clinical study requirements, restricted distribution, written warnings to physicians, a product recall, and withdrawal of a previously obtained approval. Similarly, extensive regulation exists outside of the U.S., including in Europe and Japan. We cannot be sure that we will be able to receive necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all, for any of the product candidates we are developing or that we can maintain or receive any additional necessary regulatory approvals for ERBITUX. Any delay in obtaining such approval or failure to maintain regulatory approvals could prevent us from marketing our product and would have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, it is possible that the current regulatory framework could change or additional regulations could arise at any stage during our product development or marketing processes, which may affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our products. Our revenues will diminish if our collaborators fail to obtain acceptable prices or adequate reimbursement for ERBITUX from third-party payors. All our revenues from ERBITUX are based on sales of the product by our two collaborators, BMS and Merck KGaA. The continuing efforts of U.S. and foreign government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care may limit the revenues that we earn from these sales of ERBITUX. If government and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for our product, physicians may not prescribe it. In some foreign markets, pricing and profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals are subject to government control. In the U.S., there is, and we expect that there will continue to be, federal, state and local legislation aimed at imposing similar controls. In addition, we expect managed care and government initiatives in the U.S. to continue to put pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products. Cost control initiatives would decrease the price received by our collaborators for any of our products in the future. Further, cost control initiatives would impair or diminish our ability or incentive, or the ability or incentive of our partners or potential partners, to commercialize our other product candidates, and accordingly, our ability to earn revenues. 41 Our ability to commercialize any other product candidates, alone or with collaborators, will continue to depend in part on the availability of reimbursement from: •Government and health administration authorities, including Medicare and Medicaid; •Private health insurers; and •Other third-party payors. Third-party payors, including Medicare, are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other third-party payors increasingly are limiting both coverage and level of reimbursement for new drugs and, in some cases, refusing to provide coverage for a patient's use of an approved drug for purposes not approved by the FDA. Our royalty and collaborative agreement reimbursement revenues could vary significantly and may adversely impact our business. Royalty and collaborative agreement reimbursement revenues in future periods could vary significantly. Major factors affecting these revenues include, but are not limited to: •Variations in BMS' and Merck KGaA's and other licensees' sales of licensed products; •The expiration or termination of existing arrangements with our collaborative partners, particularly BMS and Merck KGaA, which may include development and marketing arrangements for our products in the U.S., Europe and other countries outside the U.S.; •The timing of U.S. and non-U.S. approvals, if any, for our products licensed to BMS, Merck KGaA and other licensees; •The initiation of new collaborative agreements with other companies; •The failure or refusal of a licensee to pay royalties; •The expiration or invalidation of our patents or licensed intellectual property; •Decreases in licensees' sales of our products due to competition, manufacturing difficulties or other factors affecting sales of products, including any safety issues; and •Disputes arising with respect to the interpretation of provisions in existing or future agreements with our collaborative partners. If we are unable to earn sufficient revenues from ERBITUX, our operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. We will be required to expend significant resources for research and development of our products in development and these products may not be developed successfully, which would adversely affect our prospects for future revenue growth and our stock price. Our only approved product is ERBITUX while our product candidates are still undergoing clinical trials and are in the early stages of development. Any successful development of our product candidates is highly uncertain and depends on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, each of our product candidates under development will require significant additional research and development resources to be expended prior to their commercialization. Even if we spend substantial amounts on research and development, our potential products may not be developed successfully. Products that appear promising in research or development may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development or the market for a variety of reasons including: •Preclinical tests may show the product to be toxic or lack efficacy in animal models; •Clinical trial results may show the product to be less effective than desired or to have harmful or problematic side effects; 42 •Failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals or a delay in receiving such approvals. Among other things, such delays may be caused by slow enrollment in clinical studies, extended length of time to achieve study endpoints, additional time requirements for data analysis or preparation of the BLA, discussions with the FDA, FDA requests for additional pre-clinical or clinical data, analyses or changes to study design, or unexpected safety, efficacy or manufacturing issues; •Difficulties formulating the product, scaling the manufacturing process or in getting approval for manufacturing; •Manufacturing costs, pricing or reimbursement issues, or other factors that make the product uneconomical; •The proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies that may prevent the product from being developed or commercialized; and •The contractual rights of our collaborators or others that may prevent the product from being developed or commercialized. If the product candidates on which we have expended significant amounts for research and development are not commercialized, we will not earn a return on the related research and development expenditures, which would adversely affect our prospects for future revenue growth and our stock price. If third parties on which we rely for clinical trials do not perform as contractually required or as we expect, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for additional indications for ERBITUX or obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. We depend on independent clinical investigators and, in some cases, contract research organizations and other third party service providers to conduct the clinical trials for our product candidates and for additional indications for ERBITUX and expect to continue to do so. We rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials, but we do not control many aspects of their activities. Nonetheless, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocol. Our reliance on these third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of our responsibility to comply with the regulations and standards of the FDA relating to good clinical practices. Third parties may not complete activities on schedule or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or applicable trial plans and protocols. The failure of these third parties to carry out their obligations could delay or prevent the development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates or result in enforcement action against us. Difficulties or delays in product manufacturing and finishing could cause shortfalls in the supply of ERBITUX or our product candidates currently being developed which would harm our business and, in the case of ERBITUX, our ability to meet our financial obligations. We currently manufacture bulk active pharmaceutical ingredient for ERBITUX at our BB36 and BB50 manufacturing facilities. Catalent Pharma Solutions LLC (Catalent), formerly Cardinal Health Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services, and Hollister-Stier Laboratories LLC (Hollister-Stier) are currently our primary providers of filling and finishing services—the final stage of manufacturing for ERBITUX. Any prolonged interruption in the operations of our or our contractors' manufacturing and finishing facilities could result in cancellations of shipments, loss of product in the process of being manufactured, or a shortfall of available product inventory. The Catalent facility is up for sale by the Blackstone Group and that may cause a disruption to our business depending on the nature of the sale. A number of factors also could cause interruptions, including a failure of our or our contractors' manufacturing and finishing facilities to obtain FDA approval and maintain compliance with current good manufacturing practice requirements, changes in the FDA's regulatory requirements or standards 43 that require modifications to our manufacturing processes, action by the FDA that results in the halting of production of one or more of our products due to regulatory issues, a contract manufacturer going out of business, natural or other disasters, or other similar factors. Because our manufacturing and finishing processes and those of our contractors are highly complex and are subject to a lengthy FDA approval process and extensive ongoing regulation, alternative qualified production capacity may not be available on a timely basis or at all. We may also experience insufficient available capacity to manufacture existing or new products which could cause shortfalls of available product inventory. Difficulties or delays in our and our contractors' manufacturing and supply of existing or new products could increase our costs, cause us to lose revenue or market share and damage our reputation. During the second half of 2007, we transitioned our BB50 manufacturing facility from the production of ERBITUX to certain of our pipeline products. During the first quarter of 2008, we have transitioned back to producing ERBITUX in BB50. This facility is approved by the FDA as a single-product manufacturing facility for the production of ERBITUX. Therefore, we are required to file an sBLA with the FDA for approval of the procedures and controls in the operation of BB50 as a multi-product manufacturing facility, which we intend to do during 2008. However, there are no guarantees that the FDA will approve these procedures and controls in the operation of BB50 as a multi-product manufacturing facility. If the FDA does not approve the procedures and controls that were used during 2007 in the operation of BB50 as a multi-product manufacturing facility we will not be able to sell the ERBITUX produced since the transition back to the production of ERBITUX in 2008. Although the FDA has approved our BB36 and BB50 manufacturing facilities and the BB36 facility has passed multiple subsequent inspections, if we are unable to maintain FDA approval for BB36 and BB50, it may cause shortfalls in our product inventory which would negatively impact our revenues and our business. Our marketing partners may experience pressure to lower the price of ERBITUX because of new and/or proposed federal legislation, which would reduce our royalty revenue and may harm our business. Federal legislation has altered the way in which physician administered drugs covered by Medicare, such as ERBITUX, are reimbursed, generally leading to lower reimbursement levels. This legislation also added an outpatient prescription drug benefit to Medicare, effective January 2006. The outpatient prescription drug benefit is provided primarily through private entities, which will attempt to negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers, including our collaborators. These negotiations may increase pressures to lower pricing for ERBITUX. While the law specifically prohibits the U.S. government from interfering in price negotiations between manufacturers and Medicare drug plan sponsors, some members of Congress are pursuing legislation that would permit the U.S. government to use its enormous purchasing power to demand discounts from pharmaceutical companies, thereby creating de facto price controls on prescription drugs, such as ERBITUX. In addition, the new law contains triggers for Congressional consideration of cost containment measures for Medicare in the event Medicare cost increases exceed a certain level. These cost containment measures could include some limitations on prescription drug prices that our collaborators charge for ERBITUX which would reduce our royalty revenue and harm our business. If we become subject to importation of products from Canada and other countries, it will affect our profitability and harm our business. ERBITUX and other products that we may develop may become subject to competition from lower priced imports from Canada, Mexico and other countries where government price controls or other market dynamics have resulted in lower priced products. The ability of patients and other customers to obtain these lower priced imports has grown significantly as a result of the Internet, an expansion of pharmacies in Canada and elsewhere targeted to American purchasers, the increase in U.S.-based businesses affiliated with Canadian pharmacies marketing to American purchasers and other 44 factors. Many of these foreign imports are illegal under current law. However, the volume of imports continues to rise due to the limited enforcement resources of the FDA and the U.S. Customs Service, and the pressure in the current political environment to permit the imports as a mechanism for expanding access to lower priced medicines. In addition, in December 2003, federal legislation was enacted to modify U.S. import laws and expand the ability for lower priced pharmaceutical products to be imported from Canada, where government price controls have been enacted. These changes to the import laws will not take effect unless and until the Secretary of Health and Human Services certifies that the changes will lead to substantial savings for consumers and will not create a public health safety issue. The current Secretary of Health and Human Services has indicated that there is not a basis to make such a certification at this time. However, it is possible that this Secretary or a subsequent Secretary could make such a certification in the future. In addition, legislation has been proposed to implement the changes to the import laws without any requirement for certification from the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and to broaden permissible imports in other ways. Even if these changes to the import laws do not take effect, and other changes are not enacted, lower priced imports of products from Canada and elsewhere may continue to increase due to market and political forces, and the limited enforcement resources of the FDA, the U.S. Customs Service, and other government agencies. For example, state and local governments have suggested that they may import drugs from Canada for employees covered by state health plans or others, and some have already enacted such plans. Lower priced imports will adversely affect our profitability. This impact could become more significant in the future, and the impact could be even greater if there is a further change in the law or if state or local governments take further steps to permit lower priced imports from abroad. We depend on key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel, and the loss of the services of any of our key employees would affect our ability to develop our business. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management, operations and scientific staff. We experience intense competition for qualified personnel. Our future success depends in part on the continued service of our executive management and scientific personnel and our ability to recruit, train and retain highly qualified management, scientific, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel. If we lose the services of any of these personnel, our research and product development and marketing goals, including the maintenance of relationships with leading research institutions and key collaborators, could be delayed or curtailed. In addition, we do not maintain "key man" life insurance on any of our employees. As a result, we may be unable to minimize the negative impact on our business stemming from the loss of a key employee. The law or FDA policy could change and expose us to competition from "generic" or "follow-on" versions of our products, which may impact our market share and harm our business. We could be adversely affected by competition from manufacturers of generic drugs in the future both within the U.S. as well as in international markets. Under current U.S. law and FDA policy, generic versions of conventional chemical drug compounds, sometimes referred to as small molecule compounds, may be approved through an abbreviated approval process. In general terms, the generic applicant references an approved innovator product for which full clinical data demonstrating safety and effectiveness exist for the approved conditions of use. The generic applicant in turn need only demonstrate that its product has the same active ingredient(s), dosage form, strength, route of administration, and conditions of use (labeling) as the referenced innovator drug, and that the generic product is absorbed in the body at the same rate and to the same extent as the referenced innovator drug (this is known as bioequivalence). In addition, the generic application must contain information regarding the manufacturing processes and facilities that will be used to ensure product quality, and must contain certifications to patents listed with the FDA for the referenced innovator drug. 45 There is no such abbreviated approval process under current law for biological products approved under the Public Health Service Act through a BLA, such as monoclonal antibodies, cytokines, growth factors, enzymes, interferons and certain other proteins. However, various proposals have been made to establish an abbreviated approval process to permit approval of generic or follow-on versions of these types of biological products. The proposals include proposals for legislation, and proposals for the FDA to extend its existing authority to this area. For example, some have proposed that the FDA allow a generic or follow-on copy of certain therapeutic biologics to be approved under an existing mechanism known as a 505(b)(2) application. A 505(b)(2) application is a form of an NDA, where the applicant does not have a right to reference some of the data being relied upon for approval. Under current regulations, 505(b)(2) applications can be used where the applicant is relying in part on published literature or on findings of safety or effectiveness in another company's NDA 505(b)(2) applications that have not been used to date for therapeutic biologic products. In addition, the use of 505(b)(2) applications, even for conventional chemical drug products, is the subject of ongoing legal challenge. It is thus not clear what the permitted use of a 505(b)(2) application might be in the future for biologics products, or whether any other proposals on generic or follow-on biologics will be adopted. However, if the law is changed or if the FDA somehow extends its existing authority in new ways, and third parties are permitted to obtain approvals of versions of our products through an abbreviated approval mechanism and without conducting full clinical studies of their own, it could adversely affect our business. Such products would be significantly less costly than ours to bring to market, and could lead to the existence of multiple lower priced competitive products. This would substantially limit our ability to obtain a return on the investments we have made in those products. Our investment portfolio contains auction rate securities (ARS) which have recently failed at auction and have unrealized losses. These investments could be subject to further unrealized losses and impairment losses if credit and capital markets continue to deteriorate. As of December 31, 2007, the Company has $168.8 million of principal invested in ARS with long-term nominal maturities for which interest rates are reset through a dutch-auction each month. These monthly auctions have historically provided a liquid market for these securities. The Company's investments in ARS all currently have AAA/Aaa credit ratings and interest continues to be paid by the issuers of the securities. The Company's investments in ARS represent interests in synthetic collateralized debt obligations referencing portfolios of corporate bonds. The Company does not have any investments which are backed by sub-prime mortgages. As a result of the liquidity issues experienced in the global credit and capital markets, certain of the ARS, which were primarily underwritten by one investment bank, with a total principal value of $149.2 million held by the Company at December 31, 2007, have experienced multiple failed auctions since August 2007. The estimated fair market value at December 31, 2007 of the Company's ARS with continuing auction failures totaled approximately $109.0 million based on indicative prices from the investment bank, which reflects unrealized losses of $40.2 million. As of February 27, 2008, the unrealized losses on these securities based on indicative prices from the investment bank increased to approximately $65.8 million due to the continuing liquidity issues in the global credit and capital markets. The Company has concluded that the ARS have experienced a temporary decline in value and has reflected the unrealized losses as a component of other comprehensive loss in stockholders' equity in its consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2007. Historically, these ARS had liquidity created by auctions and were classified as current assets under securities available for sale on the Company's consolidated balance sheets. As a result of the failed auctions on these securities, the fair value of these ARS totaling approximately $109.0 million has been reclassified from current assets to non-current assets in the Company's consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2007. If uncertainties in the credit and capital markets continue and these markets deteriorate further or the Company's investment in ARS experience ratings downgrades due to higher than anticipated losses in reference portfolios or for other reasons, the Company may incur further unrealized losses or conclude that the decline in value is other than temporary and incur realized losses, including up to the full amount of the investments in ARS, which could negatively affect the Company's financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. 46 Risks Relating to Intellectual Property and Legal Matters Protecting our proprietary rights is difficult and costly. If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary rights, we could lose revenue. Our success depends in large part on our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce our patents. Our ability to commercialize any product successfully will largely depend on our ability to obtain and maintain patents of sufficient scope to prevent third parties from developing similar or competitive products. In the absence of patent protection, competitors may cause a negative impact to our business by developing and marketing substantially equivalent products and technology. Patent disputes are frequent and can preclude the commercialization of products. We have in the past been, are currently, and may in the future be, involved in material patent litigation, such as the matters discussed under "Part I—Item 3. Legal Proceedings". Patent litigation is time-consuming and costly in its own right and could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties. In addition, an adverse decision could force us to either obtain third-party licenses at a material cost or cease using the technology or product in dispute. The existence of patents or other proprietary rights belonging to other parties may lead to our termination of the research and development of a particular product or cause us to obtain third-party licenses at potentially material costs. We believe that we have strong patent protection or the potential for strong patent protection for our product and product candidates. However, it is for the courts and/or other governmental agencies in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions ultimately to determine the strength of that patent protection. We hold patents or licenses to patents relating to murine antibodies as well as patents and licenses relating to the therapeutic use of EGFR antibodies. These patents expire on various dates, the earliest of which was in 2007. Risks related to our patent position with respect to ERBITUX and our product candidates are more fully discussed under "Item 1—Business—Patents and Trademarks". Several lawsuits have been filed against us which may be costly to defend and the outcome of which are uncertain and may harm our business. Litigations or arbitrations to which we are currently or have been subjected relate to, among other things, our patent and other intellectual property rights, licensing arrangements with other persons and those other claims more fully described under "Part I—Item 3. Legal Proceedings", including an action brought by Yeda Research and Development Company Ltd. (Yeda) in which the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York ruled that three individuals associated with Yeda be named as sole inventors on U.S. Patent No. 6,217,866 relating to the therapeutic use of EGFR antibodies. We settled this matter in December 2007, which is more fully described under "Part I—Item 3. Legal Proceedings." We cannot provide any assurance as to the outcome of these pending lawsuits or arbitrations. Any conclusion of these matters in a manner adverse to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In addition, the costs to us of defending these claims or any other proceedings, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation or other proceedings could also harm our ability to compete in the marketplace. Our operations use hazardous materials, which may lead to environmental liability, and may harm our business. We use certain hazardous materials in connection with our research and manufacturing activities. These hazardous materials include various flammable solvents, corrosives, oxidizers and toxics. We also use radioactive isotopes in our scientific research. In the event such hazardous materials are stored, handled or released into the environment in violation of law or any permit, or in a manner that 47 adversely affects the environment, we could be subject to loss of our permits, government fines or penalties and/or other adverse governmental or third party action. We do not maintain any specific insurance to cover any accidents associated with the hazardous materials that we use in our manufacturing and research activities. The levy of a substantial fine or penalty, the payment of significant environmental remediation costs or the loss of a permit or other authorization to operate or engage in our ordinary course of business could materially adversely affect our business. We could be exposed to material product liability claims that could prevent or interfere with the commercialization of any other products that we may develop. The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. Liability exposures for biopharmaceuticals, such as ERBITUX, could prevent or interfere with continued sales of ERBITUX or the commercialization of any other products that we may develop. Product liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. We currently have $20.0 million of aggregate product liability insurance coverage. Our business may be materially and adversely affected by a successful product liability claim or claims in excess of or outside our insurance coverage. Insurance coverage is increasingly more difficult and costly to obtain and maintain. While we currently have a certain amount of insurance to minimize our direct exposure to certain business risks, premiums are generally increasing and coverage is narrowing in scope. As a result, we may be required to assume more risk in the future or make significantly greater expenditures to maintain our current levels of insurance. If we are subject to claims by third parties or suffer a loss or damages in excess of our insurance coverage, we will be liable for that excess. Furthermore, any claims made on our insurance policies may affect our ability to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at reasonable rates. Risks Relating to our Common Stock and Related Matters Certain provisions of Delaware law, our charter and bylaws and our stockholder rights plan could hinder, delay or prevent changes in control. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our charter and our bylaws, as well as our stockholder rights plan have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing transactions that involve an actual or threatened change in control. These provisions include the following: Stockholder Rights Plan. We adopted a stockholder rights plan on February 15, 2002. Our stockholder rights plan, as amended May 4, 2006, may discourage any potential acquirer from acquiring more than 19.9% of our outstanding common stock since, subject to certain exceptions, upon this type of acquisition without approval of our Board of Directors, all other common stockholders will have the right to purchase a specified amount of our common stock at a substantial discount from market price, thus significantly increasing the acquisition cost to a potential acquirer. Special Meetings. According to our bylaws, special meetings of stockholders may be called only by our Board of Directors. Removal of Directors. Subject to the rights of BMS to elect at least one director, our bylaws provide that a director can be removed with or without cause only by the affirmative vote of at least a majority of all votes entitled to be cast. Advance Notice Provisions for Stockholder Nominations and Proposals. Our bylaws require advance written notice for stockholders to nominate persons for election as directors at, or to bring other business before, any meeting of stockholders. This bylaw provision limits the ability of stockholders to 48 make nominations of persons for election as directors or to introduce other proposals unless we are notified in a timely manner prior to the meeting. Preferred Stock. Under our charter, our Board of Directors has authority to issue preferred stock from time to time in one or more series and to establish the terms, preferences and rights of any such series of preferred stock, all without approval of our stockholders. Delaware Business Combinations. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, restricts certain transactions and business combinations between a corporation and a stockholder owning 15% or more of the corporation's outstanding voting stock for a period of three years from the date the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder. In addition to discouraging a third party from acquiring control of us, the foregoing provisions could impair the ability of existing stockholders to remove and replace our management and/or our Board of Directors. The recent changes in the composition of our Board of Directors do not constitute a "change in control." However, if in the future additional persons are added to the Board of Directors who are not deemed incumbent directors under certain of our employee benefit plans, a "change in control" may occur, which may adversely affect our business. The recent changes in the composition of our Board of Directors did not constitute a "change in control" for purposes of certain severance and compensation agreements entered into by the Company. However, if in the future additional persons who are not deemed incumbent directors for purposes of such agreements are added to the Board of Directors, a "change in control" may occur. Those agreements define incumbent directors as the directors serving on the date of the agreement and directors whose election was approved by two-thirds vote of the incumbent directors; provided that directors initially elected as a result of an actual or threatened proxy solicitation or election will not be deemed incumbent directors. If a "change in control" is deemed to occur, covered employees may become eligible for additional compensation if their employment is terminated without cause or if they leave the Company for good reason (as defined in the relevant agreements and plan documents) following such change of control. In addition, under certain circumstances, covered employees' equity awards may also vest in full. If this occurs, we may bear additional expenditures to retain or replace the services of covered employees. Our stock price is highly volatile. It may be difficult to resell our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. In addition, the following factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: •Announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; •Publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating to products under development or being commercialized by us or our competitors; •Developments or outcomes of investigations and litigation generally, including litigation relating to proprietary rights and patents; •Regulatory developments or delays concerning our products in the U.S. and foreign countries; •Issues concerning the safety of our products or of biotechnology products generally; •Economic and other external factors or a disaster or crisis; and •Period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. 49 Future sales of our common stock by BMS could cause the price of our common stock to decline. As of December 31, 2007, BMS owned 14,392,003 shares of our common stock, or approximately 16.9% of our outstanding shares. We have agreed that, upon BMS's request, we will file one or more registration statements under the Securities Act in order to permit BMS to offer and sell shares of our common stock. Under the Stockholders Agreement between us and BMS, BMS may not sell more than 10% of our outstanding common stock at one time in a registered underwritten public offering or otherwise sell more than approximately 1.44 million shares in any twelve-month period, subject to compliance with the applicable securities laws. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by BMS in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 