ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us and our business. If any of these risks were to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations may adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Act”) was enacted on July 21, 2010. The Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with power to promulgate and enforce consumer protection laws. Smaller institutions, those with $10 billion or less in assets (such as the Company), are subject to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s rule-writing authority, and existing depository institution regulatory agencies retain examination and enforcement authority for such institutions. The Act also established a Financial Stability Oversight Council chaired by the Secretary of the Treasury with authority to identify institutions and practices that might pose a systemic risk and, among other things, included provisions affecting (1) corporate governance and executive compensation of all companies whose securities are registered with the SEC, (2) FDIC insurance assessments, (3) interchange fees for debit cards, which will be set by the Federal Reserve under a restrictive “reasonable and proportional cost” per transaction standard, (4) minimum capital levels for bank holding companies, subject to a grandfather clause for financial institutions (such as the Company) with less than $15 billion in assets, and (5) derivative and proprietary trading by financial institutions. Financial Stability – addressed the core purpose of the bill by creating a new oversight regulator, the Financial Stability Oversight Council. This council of regulators monitors the financial system for “systemic risk” and will determine which entities pose significant systemic risk. Generally speaking, it makes recommendations to regulators for the implementation of the increased risk standards, also known as prudential regulation, to be applied to bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more and to designated nonbanks. The Act grandfathers trust preferred securities issued before May 19, 2010 by bank holding companies with less than $15 billion in total assets. Orderly Liquidation Authority –established a framework for the liquidation by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) of large institutions that pose systemic risk. The Treasury supplies liquidity for the liquidation that must be paid back in 60 months. Enhancing Financial Institution Safety and Soundness – merged the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”) into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”), the Bank’s primary regulator. The regulatory responsibilities for former OTS banks were spread among other regulators: The Federal Reserve now regulates former OTS savings and loan holding companies, the OCC now regulates former OTS federal savings associations, and the FDIC now regulates former OTS state-chartered savings associations. For the Bank, a key provision in this title changes the assessment base for deposit insurance. Before, the base was domestic deposits less tangible equity. The new base is average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity. The result is that larger financial institutions, which have more non-deposit liabilities, now pay a greater percentage of the aggregate insurance assessment and smaller banks (such as the Bank) will pay less than they would have. Another key provision for the Bank was the permanent increase in FDIC deposit insurance per depositor in the aggregate from $100,000 to $250,000. The Act increases the minimum reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund from 1.15 percent to 1.35 percent, but exempts institutions (such as the Bank) with assets of less than $10 billion from the cost of the increase. Improvements to Regulation of Bank and Savings Association Holding Companies and Depository Institutions –implemented the so-called modified Volcker Rule. The rule limits the ability of certain bank and bank-related entities to engage in proprietary trading or investing in hedge funds and private equity funds to 3 percent of the entity’s Tier 1 capital, among other restrictions. “Proprietary trading” is defined to include the purchase or sale of any security, any derivative, any contract for the sale of a commodity for future delivery, or option on such instrument. The key provisions in this title are a moratorium on deposit insurance applications for three years, ending July 21, 2013, for new credit card banks, industrial loan companies and trust banks owned by commercial companies, the expansion of the definition of affiliate transactions to cover certain kinds of security transactions such as repurchase agreement, derivative transaction and securities borrowing; and the codification of the source of strength doctrine, the long-time The First Bancorp • 2011 Form 10-k Page 8 view of the Federal Reserve that a holding company should serve as a source of financial strength for its subsidiary banks. Regulation of Over-the-Counter Swaps Markets – imposed exchange trading for derivatives contracts and imposes new capital and margin requirements and various reporting obligations on Over The Counter (“OTC”) swap dealers and major OTC swap participants. For the Bank, the most important provision in this title levels the competitive playing field by prohibiting the Federal Reserve or the FDIC from providing assistance to insured depository institutions involved in the swaps markets, with certain exceptions. Payment, Clearing, and Settlement Supervision – allowed for a systemic approach to certain financial market payment, payment, clearing and settlement systems. Designation of a large financial institution as “systemically important” will require a two-thirds vote of the Financial Stability Oversight Council. Investor Protections and Improvements to the Regulation of Securities – has a number of provisions intended to protect investors, including for example: risk retention requirements for certain asset-backed securities; reforms to regulation of credit rating agencies; establishing an Investor Advisory Committee and an Office of Investor Advocate, and requiring the SEC to study whether a fiduciary duty standard of care for broker-dealers providing personalized investment advice to a retail customer should be created. For the Bank, the most important section of this Title established a number of changes to corporate governance procedures for public companies The most important of these are: proxy access requirements for shareholders; disclosures about the failure to separate the roles of the chair of board and chief executive officer; non-binding shareholder voting on executive compensation; the establishment of an independent compensation committee; executive compensation disclosures and clawbacks. In addition, the Federal Reserve has requested comment on proposed regulations regarding incentive-based pay practices that will apply to institutions (such as the Bank) with more than $1 billion in assets. Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection – the most important Title in the Act for the Bank. It has altered in dramatic fashion the way consumer credit is regulated, moving from the previous framework of the federal regulation of disclosure and the state law regulation of fairness and suitability, to an overall, nationwide federal suitability framework. It establishes the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, an independent entity housed within the Federal Reserve in order to provide a source of funding (initially $500 million) and gave the Bureau the authority to prohibit practices that it finds to be “unfair,” “deceptive,” or “abusive” in addition to requiring certain disclosures. The words “unfair” and “deceptive” appear to reference and incorporate similar words in the enabling legislation of the Federal Trade Commission and some state consumer legislation. For the Bank, in addition to creation of the Bureau, this Title also contains a number of other important provisions. It limited interchange fees for debit card transactions (including those involved with certain prepaid card products) to an amount established as reasonable under regulations issued by the Federal Reserve. Cards issued by banks with less than $10 billion in assets are exempt from this requirement although this exemption has been criticized as being ineffective because small banks may be forced by market dynamics to match the rates being offered by their larger competitors. Another key change for the Bank is the Act’s treatment of preemption. Essentially, the Act will undo recent court decisions and OCC guidance that expanded the application of preemption to subsidiaries of national banks. The standard for the preemption of state law is to return to the one enunciated in a well-known court decision, Barnet Bank v. Nelson: “irreconcilable conflict” and “stand as an obstacle to the accomplishment” of the purpose of the federal law. The Act also codified the result in a recent U.S. Supreme Court decision that the visitorial powers provisions of the National Bank Act do not limit the authority of state attorneys general to bring actions against national banks to enforce state consumer protection laws. Federal Reserve System Revisions – gives the Government Accountability Office authority to conduct a one-time audit of the Federal Reserve’s emergency lending during the credit crisis and gives the GAO other auditing responsibilities over the Federal Reserve. The title also tightens the conditions under which the Fed may provide emergency assistance to institutions and authorizes the FDIC to guarantee debts of banks and bank holding companies. Improving Access to Mainstream Financial Institutions – is intended to provide alternatives to payday loans. This title is intended to encourage low-and moderate-income individuals to create accounts in insured depository institutions and it creates a program to provide low-cost loans of $2,500 or less. Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act – places new regulations on mortgage originators and imposes new disclosure requirements and appraisal reforms, the most important of which are: the creation of a mortgage originator duty of care, the establishment of certain underwriting requirements so that at the time of origination the consumer has a reasonable ability to repay the loan; the creation of document requirements intended to eliminate “no document” and “low document” loans, the prohibition of steering incentives for mortgage originators; a prohibition on The First Bancorp • 2011 Form 10-k Page 9 yield spread premiums, and prepayment penalties in many cases; and a provision that allows borrowers to assert as a foreclosure defense a contention that the lender violated the anti-steering restrictions or the reasonable repayment requirements. There can be no assurance that the Dodd-Frank Act and other Government programs will stabilize the U.S. financial system. There can also be no assurance as to the actual impact that the Dodd-Frank Act and other programs will continue to have on the financial markets, including credit availability. The failure of the Dodd-Frank Act or other programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our voting common stock. There can be no assurance that the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (“EESA”), the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, and other initiatives undertaken by the United States government to restore liquidity and stability to the U.S. financial system will help stabilize and stimulate the U.S. financial system. Among the purposes of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. banking system. The EESA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. There can be no assurance regarding the actual impact that the EESA or the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or other programs and other initiatives undertaken by the U.S. government, will have on the financial markets; the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced may persist. The failure of the EESA or other government programs to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In the event turmoil in the financial markets continues, we may experience a material adverse effect from (1) continued or accelerated disruption and volatility in financial markets, (2) continued capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally and our transaction counterparties specifically, (3) limitations resulting from further governmental action to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, or (4) recessionary conditions that are deeper or last longer than currently anticipated. Recent negative developments in the financial services industry and U.S. and global credit markets may adversely impact our operations and results. Negative developments between 2007 and 2011 in the capital markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing in 2012 and perhaps beyond 2012. The impact of this situation, together with concerns regarding the financial strength of financial institutions, has led to distress in credit markets and issues relating to liquidity among financial institutions. Some financial institutions around the world and the United States have failed; others have been forced to seek acquisition partners. Loan portfolio value has deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, amongst other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. The United States and other governments have taken unprecedented steps to try to stabilize the financial system, including investing in financial institutions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. The downgrade of the U.S. credit rating and Europe’s debt crisis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. Standard & Poor’s lowered its long term sovereign credit rating on the United States of America from AAA to AA+ on August 5, 2011. A further downgrade or a downgrade by other rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. Any such adverse impact could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our investment securities are issued by U.S. government agencies and U.S. government sponsored entities. In addition, the possibility that certain European Union (“EU”) member states will default on their debt obligations have negatively impacted economic conditions and global markets. The continued uncertainty over the outcome of international and the EU’s financial support programs and the possibility that other EU member states may experience similar financial troubles could further disrupt global markets. The negative impact on economic conditions and global markets could also have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. The First Bancorp • 2011 Form 10-k Page 10 Lack of loan demand may impact net interest income. During the past two years the loan portfolio has decreased $70.0 million. Loan demand in the Bank’s market area has been limited as a result of continued weak economic conditions. This has had the greatest impact on the commercial loan portfolio. In addition, in order to reduce the Bank’s exposure to interest rate risk, the Bank has sold residential mortgages to the secondary market that have been refinanced by borrowers seeking to take advantage of lower interest rates. Should this trend continue, net interest income may be negatively impacted if loans are replaced by lower-yielding investment securities or if the balance sheet is allowed to shrink. The soundness of other financial services institutions may adversely affect our credit risk. We rely on other financial services institutions through trading, clearing, counterparty, and other relationships. We maintain limits and monitor concentration levels of our counterparties as specified in our internal policies. Our reliance on other financial services institutions exposes us to credit risk in the event of default by these institutions or counterparties. These losses could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Declines in value may adversely impact the investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2011, we had $286.2 million and $122.7 million in available for sale and held to maturity investment securities, respectively. We may be required to record impairment charges on our investment securities if they suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect on our investment portfolio in future periods. If an impairment charge is significant enough it could affect the ability of the Bank to renew funding. This could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and the Bank’s ability to upstream dividends to the Company and for the Company to then pay dividends to shareholders. It could also negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios and result in our not being classified as “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes. Our business has been and may Continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. Negative developments in 2008 and 2009 in the financial services industry have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related general economic downturn, which have continued into 2012. In addition, as a consequence of the recent U.S. recession, businesses across a wide range of industries have faced serious difficulties due to the decrease in consumer spending, reduced consumer confidence brought on by deflated home values, among other things, and reduced liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment also increased significantly over the past several years. As a result of these financial and economic crises, many lending institutions, including us, have experienced in recent years declines in the performance of their loans, including construction, land development and land loans, commercial real estate loans and other commercial and consumer loans (see “Credit & Credit Risk” in ITEM 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Moreover, competition among depository institutions for core deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Banks and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, and the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets has been more difficult compared to years prior to the economic downturn. As a result, bank regulatory agencies have been and are expected to continue to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the issuance of formal or informal enforcement actions or orders. The impact of new legislation in response to these developments may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance or our stock price. In addition, further negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. Overall, during the past four years, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve in the near term. Until conditions improve, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected. The First Bancorp • 2011 Form 10-k Page 11 Regulation. Bank holding companies and nationally chartered banks operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and examination by various regulatory agencies. The Company is subject to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. The Bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or the OCC. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters including: changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies; maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution; permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments; permissible non-banking activities; the level of reserves against deposits; and restrictions on dividend payments. The OCC possesses cease and desist powers to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulation, and the Federal Reserve Board possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. These and other restrictions limit the manner in which we may conduct our business and obtain financing. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, we must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. If we fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to maintain the status of “well-capitalized” under our regulatory framework could affect the confidence of our customers in us, thus compromising our competitive position. We are subject to credit risk. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where we operate as well as those across the United States and abroad. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for loan losses. Allowance for loan losses may be insufficient. The Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, national and regional economic conditions, historical loss experience and delinquency trends. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the size of the allowance for loan losses, we rely on our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions. However, we cannot predict loan losses with certainty, and we cannot provide assurance that charge-offs in future periods will not exceed the allowance for loan losses. During 2011, the Bank experienced incremental increases in both non-performing loans and net loan charge-offs, as compared to prior periods. No assurance can be given that the relevant economic and market conditions will improve or will not further deteriorate. Hence, the persistence or worsening of such conditions could result in an increase in delinquencies, could cause a decrease in our interest income, or could continue to have an adverse impact on our loan loss experience, which, in turn, may necessitate increases to our allowance for loan losses. If net charge-offs exceed the Bank’s allowance, its earnings would decrease. In addition, regulatory agencies review the Bank’s allowance for loan losses and may require additions to the allowance based on their judgment about information available to them at the time of their examination. Management could also decide that the allowance for loan losses should be increased. We may be required to charge off additional loans in the future and make further increases in our Provision for Loan Losses which could adversely affect our results of operations. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents management’s best estimate of probable incurred losses within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; industry concentrations; and other unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional The First Bancorp • 2011 Form 10-k Page 12 problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Increases in nonperforming loans have a significant impact on our allowance for loan losses. Generally, our nonperforming loans and assets reflect operating difficulties of individual borrowers resulting from weakness in both the national and coastal Maine economies. If the real estate valuation trends of the past several years continue, we could continue to experience delinquencies and credit losses, particularly with respect to commercial real estate loans. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Furthermore, growth in the loan portfolio would generally lead to an increase in the provision for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See the section captioned “Allowance for Loan Losses” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to our process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. We are subject to interest rate risk. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, demand for loans, securities and deposits, and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities and (iii) the average duration of our loans and securities that are collateralized by mortgages. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. If interest rates decline our higher-rate loans and investments may be subject to prepayment risk, which could negatively impact our net interest margin. Conversely, if interest rates increase, our loans and investments may be subject to extension risk, which could negatively impact our net interest margin as well.Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to our management of interest rate risk. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through traditional deposits, brokered deposit renewals or rollovers, secured or unsecured borrowings, the sale of securities or loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general, or could be available only under terms which are unacceptable to us. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. We rely primarily on commercial and retail deposits and to a lesser extent, brokered deposit renewals and rollovers, advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston (“FHLB”) and other secured and unsecured borrowings to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our results of operations or financial condition or the results of operations or financial condition of the FHLB or market conditions were to change. In addition, if we fall below the FDIC’s thresholds to be considered “well capitalized”, we will be unable to continue to rollover or renew brokered funds, and the interest rate paid on deposits would be restricted. Loss of lower-cost funding sources. Checking and savings, NOW, and money market deposit account balances and other forms of customer deposits can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, we could lose a relatively low-cost source of funds, increasing our funding costs and reducing our net interest income and net income. Advances from the FHLB are currently a relatively low-cost source of funding. The availability of qualified collateral on the Bank’s The First Bancorp • 2011 Form 10-k Page 13 balance sheet determines the level of advances available from FHLB and a deterioration in quality in the Bank’s loan portfolio can adversely impact the availability of this source of funding. Competition in the financial services industry. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources than we do. We compete with other providers of financial services such as commercial and savings banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, money market and mutual funds, mortgage companies, asset managers, insurance companies and a wide array of other local, regional and national institutions which offer financial services. Mergers between financial institutions within Maine and in neighboring states have added competitive pressure. If we are unable to compete effectively, we will lose market share and our income generated from loans, deposits, and other financial products will decline. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but capital may not be available when needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors, which may diminish our ability to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed or desired (including to repurchase the remaining outstanding CPP Shares before the dividend payable thereunder increases to 9% per annum), will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, we may become subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on our growth and our business, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The value of our investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by disruptions in securities markets. The market for some of the investment securities held in our portfolio has become volatile over the past several years. Volatile market conditions may detrimentally affect the value of these securities due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other than temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. Our mortgage-backed portfolio may be subject to extension risk as interest rates rise and borrowers are unable to refinance their current mortgages into lower rate mortgages, extending the average life of the bonds. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Since mid-2007, the financial services industry as a whole, as well as the securities markets generally, have been materially and adversely affected by very significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a very serious lack of liquidity. Financial institutions in particular have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss in investor confidence. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in primary market area could adversely impact results of operations and financial condition. Most of the Bank’s lending is in Mid-Coast and Down East Maine. As a result of this geographic concentration, a significant broad-based deterioration in economic conditions in this area or Northern New England could have a material adverse impact on the quality of the Bank’s loan portfolio, and accordingly, our results of operations. Such a decline in economic conditions could impair borrowers’ ability to pay outstanding principal and interest on loans when The First Bancorp • 2011 Form 10-k Page 14 due and, consequently, adversely affect the cash flows of our business. The Bank’s loan portfolio is largely secured by real estate collateral. A substantial portion of the real and personal property securing the loans in the Bank’s portfolio is located in Mid-Coast and Down East Maine. Conditions in the real estate market in which the collateral for the Bank’s loans is located strongly influence the level of the Bank’s non-performing loans and results of operations. The recent decline in the Mid-Coast and Down East Maine area real estate values, as well as other external factors, could adversely affect the Bank’s loan portfolio. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities in which we are engaged can be intense, and we may not be able to retain or hire the people we want and/or need. In order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate such employees at market levels. Typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, our performance, including our competitive position, could suffer, and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on us. Although we have incentive compensation plans aimed, in part, at long-term employee retention, the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could still occur, and such events may have a material adverse effect on us because of the loss of the employee’s skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel for our talented executives and/or relationship managers. Pursuant to the standardized terms of the CPP, among other things, we agreed to institute certain restrictions on the compensation of certain senior executive management positions that could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified senior executives. Other restrictions were imposed under the Recovery Act, the Dodd-Frank Act and other legislation or regulations. Our ability to attract and/or retain talented executives and/or relationship managers may be affected by these developments or any new executive compensation limits, and such restrictions could have a material adverse effect on us. We have operational risk. We face the risk that the design of our controls and procedures, including those to mitigate the risk of fraud by employees or outsiders, may prove to be inadequate or are circumvented, thereby causing delays in detection of errors or inaccuracies in data and information. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may also be subject to disruptions of our systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to losses in service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees, or others, as are we) and to the risk that our (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if any does occur, that it will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on us. We continually encounter technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new The First Bancorp • 2011 Form 10-k Page 15 technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Our largest competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on us. In particular, we are subject to security, transactional and operational risks relating to the use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business serving both internal and customer constituencies. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While we have policies and procedures, security applications and fraud mitigation applications, designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, fraud attacks or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions, fraud attacks or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. Additionally, we outsource our data processing to a third party. If our third party provider encounters difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third party, it will significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect our business operations. Furthermore, breaches of such third party’s technology may also cause reimbursable loss to our consumer and business customers, through no fault of our own. Fraud attacks targeting customer-controlled devices, plastic payment card terminals, and merchant data collection points provide another source of potential loss, again through no fault of our own. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of information systems used to process customer transactions could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility or lender liability. From time to time as part of our normal course of business, customers make claims and take legal action against the Bank based on actions or inactions of the Bank. If such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Company and its products and services. This may also impact customer demand for the Company’s products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There may not be a robust trading market for the common stock. Although our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select market, the trading volume of the common stock has historically not been substantial. Over the five-year period ending December 31, 2011, for example, the average monthly trading volume of our common stock has been 335,409 shares or approximately 3.43% of the outstanding common stock. Due to the limited trading volume in our common stock, the intraday spread between bid and ask prices of the shares can be quite high. There can be no assurance that a more robust, active or economical trading market for our common stock will develop. The market value and liquidity of our common stock may, as a result, be adversely affected. The price of our common stock may fluctuate. The price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market constantly changes and recently, given the uncertainty in the financial markets, has fluctuated widely. We expect the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. Holders of our common stock will be subject to the risk of volatility and changes in prices. Our common stock price can fluctuate as a result of many factors which are beyond our control, including: · quarterly fluctuations in our operating and financial results; · operating results that vary from the expectations of Management, securities analysts and investors; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts; · events negatively impacting the financial services industry which result in a general decline for the industry; · announcements of material developments affecting our operations or our dividend policy; · future sales of our equity securities; · new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; The First Bancorp • 2011 Form 10-k Page 16 · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; and · general domestic economic and market conditions. In addition, recently the stock market generally has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, and industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of our operating results. Future offerings of debt or other securities may adversely affect the market price of our stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if our or the Bank’s capital ratios approach or fall below the required minimums, we or the Bank could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the value for existing Shareholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. The First Bancorp • 2011 Form 10-k Page 17 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 