ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Before deciding whether to invest in HCP, you should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the risks described elsewhere in this report, which risks are incorporated by reference into this section. The risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones facing us and there may be additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently consider not likely to have a significant impact on us. All of these risks could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 17 Risks Related to Our Business We rely on external sources of capital to fund future capital needs, and, if our access to such capital is limited or on unfavorable terms, we may not be able to meet commitments as they become due or make future investments necessary to grow our business. In order to qualify as a REIT under the Code, HCP, Inc. is required, among other things, to distribute to its stockholders each year at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, excluding capital gains. Because of this distribution requirement, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital needs in connection with acquisitions and development activities, from cash retained from operations. As a result, we rely on external sources of capital. If we are unable to obtain needed capital at all or only on unfavorable terms from these sources, we might not be able to make the investments needed to grow our business or meet our obligations and commitments as they mature, which could negatively affect the credit ratings of our debt and preferred securities. Our access to capital depends upon a number of factors, over which we have little or no control, including: •the performance of the national and global economies generally; •competition in the healthcare industry; •issues facing the healthcare industry, including regulations and government reimbursement policies; •tenants' and operators' operating costs; •the ratings of our debt and preferred securities; •our degree of leverage; •general availability of credit and market conditions, including interest rates; •the market's perception of our growth potential; •the market value of our properties; •changes in rules or practices governing our financial and SEC reporting; •civil disturbances, natural disasters or acts of war; •our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; and •the market price of the shares of our capital stock. Adverse changes in our credit ratings could impair our ability to obtain additional debt and preferred stock financing on favorable terms, if at all, and significantly reduce the market price of our securities, including our common stock. We currently have a credit rating of Baa3 (stable) from Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's"), BBB (negative outlook) from Standard & Poor's Ratings Service ("S&P") and BBB (stable) from Fitch Ratings ("Fitch") on our senior unsecured debt securities, and Ba1 (stable) from Moody's, BBB- (negative outlook) from S&P and BBB- (stable) from Fitch on our preferred securities. The credit ratings of our senior unsecured debt and preferred securities are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. Our credit ratings can affect the amount and type of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financings we may obtain. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings and in the event that our current credit ratings deteriorate, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and may encounter difficulty in obtaining additional financing. Also, a downgrade in our credit ratings would trigger additional costs or other potentially negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. 18 Because we depend on external sources of capital to fund our acquisition and development activity, adverse changes to our credit ratings could negatively impact our acquisition and development activity, future growth, financial condition and the market price of our securities. We have incurred additional indebtedness in connection with recent acquisitions and we anticipate we may have to incur further indebtedness to implement our business strategy. In addition, from time to time we mortgage our properties to secure payment of indebtedness. Our increased level of indebtedness could materially adversely affect us in many ways, including reducing funds available for other business purposes and reducing our operational flexibility. Our indebtedness as of December 31, 2007 was approximately $7.5 billion, including $1.35 billion that remains outstanding on a bridge loan from our recently completed acquisition of SEUSA and approximately $900 million borrowed on our line of credit in connection with our mezzanine loan investment in HCR ManorCare. As part of our business strategy, we actively seek attractive acquisition candidates to grow our business. Our recent acquisitions of SEUSA, CNL Retirement Properties, Inc. ("CRP") and CNL Retirement Corp. ("CRC") are examples of the execution of this strategy. We may acquire healthcare facilities through various structures, including transactions involving portfolios, single assets, joint ventures and acquisitions of all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other REITs or similar real estate entities. We anticipate that our acquisitions will be financed through a combination of methods, including proceeds from equity and/or debt offerings, sales of properties, borrowings under our credit facilities and other incurrence or assumption of indebtedness, including secured indebtedness. Any significant acquisition or series of acquisitions financed by the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become more leveraged, which, in turn, could negatively affect the credit ratings of our debt and preferred securities and increase the demands on our cash resources. Greater demands on our cash resources may reduce funds available to us to pay dividends, conduct development activities, or make capital expenditures and acquisitions. Increased indebtedness can also make us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally and create competitive disadvantages for us compared to other companies with relatively lower debt levels. Increased future debt service obligations may limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to finance or refinance our properties, contribute properties to joint ventures or sell properties as needed. Further, if we are unable to meet our mortgage payments, then the encumbered properties could be foreclosed upon or transferred to the mortgagee with a consequent loss of income and asset value. A foreclosure on one or more of our properties could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. Covenants in our credit agreements and other debt instruments limit our operational flexibility and a covenant breach could materially adversely affect our operations. The terms of our credit agreements and other indebtedness require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage, leverage ratios and tangible net worth requirements. Our continued ability to incur indebtedness and operate in general is subject to compliance with these financial and other covenants, which limit our operational flexibility. Breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments, even if we satisfy our payment obligations. Our future ability to satisfy current or prospective insurance requirements and secure future insurance on commercially reasonable terms could cause us to default under certain covenants. Covenants that limit our operational flexibility as well as defaults resulting from a breach of the covenants in our debt instruments could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 19 Our issuance of additional shares of common or preferred stock, warrants or debt securities may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders and reduce the market price for our shares. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 216.8 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that potential future sales of our common or preferred stock, warrants or debt securities, or the availability of our securities for future sale, will have on the market price of our outstanding securities, including our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common or preferred stock, warrants or debt securities convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales might occur could reduce the market price of our common stock. The sales of securities convertible into our common stock could dilute the interests of existing common stockholders and may cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Additionally, we maintain equity incentive plans for our employees. We have historically made grants of stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units to our employees under such plans, and we expect to continue to do so. As of December 31, 2007, there were options to purchase approximately 4.2 million shares of our common stock outstanding and exercisable, approximately 489,000 unvested shares of restricted stock issued and outstanding and approximately 788,000 unvested restricted stock units issued and outstanding under our equity incentive plans. An increase in interest rates would increase our interest costs on existing variable rate debt and new debt, and could adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt, sell assets and our acquisition and development activity. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $2.8 billion of variable interest rate indebtedness, which constitutes 37% of our overall indebtedness. This variable rate debt had a weighted average interest rate of approximately 5.9% per annum. We may incur more variable interest rate indebtedness in the future. If interest rates increase, so will our interest costs for our existing variable interest rate debt and any new debt. This increased cost could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, decrease our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt, decrease our ability to make distributions to our security holders and make the financing of any acquisition and development activity more costly. Further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures, or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing. In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Our decision to hedge against interest rate changes may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and condition, and there is no assurance that our hedges will be effective. We may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements that involve risk, including the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes, that the amount of income that we may earn from hedging transactions may be limited by federal tax provisions governing REITs, and that these arrangements may result in higher interest rates than we would otherwise have. Moreover, no amount of hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions to our security holders. We may not be able to sell properties when we desire because real estate investments are illiquid. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. In addition, some of our properties serve as collateral for our secured debt obligations and cannot be readily sold. We may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in the real estate market. This inability to respond to 20 changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, and in particular our ability to service our debt and pay dividends on our preferred stock. The real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: •adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; •changes in interest rates and in the availability, costs and terms of financing; •changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies, zoning and other ordinances; •the costs of complying with existing and new laws and regulations; •the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures; •changes in operating expenses; and •civil unrest, acts of war and natural disasters, including earthquakes and floods, which may result in uninsured and underinsured losses. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property or portfolio of properties. In addition, there are provisions under the federal income tax laws applicable to REITs that may limit our ability to recognize the full economic benefit from a sale of our assets. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A small number of operators and tenants, two of whom are experiencing significant legal, financial and regulatory difficulties, account for a large percentage of our real estate investment and revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 37% of our portfolio, based on our total revenues, was operated or leased by five companies, consisting of Sunrise Senior Living Inc. (16%), Brookdale Senior Living Inc. (7%), Tenet Healthcare Corporation (6%), HCA, Inc. (6%) and Amgen Inc. (2%). In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2007, we earned interest income of $26.2 million and $0.6 million in connection with investments in marketable debt securities and loans, issued by HCA and Brookdale, respectively. The failure or inability of any of these operators or tenants to pay their obligations to us could materially reduce our revenues and net income, which could in turn reduce the amount of dividends we pay and cause our stock price to decline. According to public disclosures, Tenet and Sunrise are experiencing significant legal, financial and regulatory difficulties. We cannot predict with certainty the impact, if any, of the outcome of these uncertainties on our consolidated financial statements. Our disposition of assets, sales of securities, receipt of loan payments and creation of joint ventures may require us to reinvest proceeds quickly to earn attractive returns, and we may face competitive risks related to the reinvestment of those sale proceeds. From time to time, we will have cash available from the proceeds of sales of our securities, principal and/or interest payments on our mortgages, mezzanine loans and other receivables, proceeds from the creation of joint ventures and the sale of joint venture interests, and the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions under the terms of leases or financial support arrangements. In order to maintain our current financial results and continue earning attractive returns, we expect to have to reinvest these proceeds on a timely basis. We compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. This competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. 21 We have investments in mezzanine loans, which are subject to a greater risk of loss than loans secured by the underlying real estate. At December 31, 2007, we had mezzanine loan investments with a carrying value of $900 million. Our mezzanine loans generally take the form of subordinated loans secured by a pledge of the ownership interests of either the entity owning the property or a pledge of the ownership interests of the entity that owns the interest in the entities owning the properties. These types of investments involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage loans secured by income producing real property because the investment may have a lesser likelihood of being repaid in full as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. In the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of its ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of such entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to fully repay our mezzanine loans. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loans or debt senior to our loans, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loans will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid and consistent with bankruptcy rules. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan-to-value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. If our mezzanine loans are not repaid, or are only partially repaid, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Credit enhancements to our leases may terminate or be inadequate, or the provider of a credit enhancement may be unable to fulfill its payment obligations to us, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Some of our leases have credit enhancement provisions, such as guarantees or shortfall reserves, for minimum rent payments payable to us. These credit enhancement provisions may terminate at either a specific time during the lease term or once the property satisfies defined operating hurdles like net operating income. These provisions may also have limits on the overall amount of the credit enhancement. After the termination of a credit enhancement, or in the event that the maximum limit of a credit enhancement is reached, we may only look to the tenant or operator to make lease payments. Some of our tenants are thinly capitalized entities that rely on the results of operations generated by the properties to fund rent obligations under their lease. In the event that a credit enhancement has expired or the maximum limit has been reached, or in the event that a provider of a credit enhancement is unable to meet its payment obligations, our results of operations and cash available for distribution could be materially adversely affected if our properties are unable to generate sufficient funds from operations to meet minimum rent payments and the tenants or operators do not otherwise have the resources to make those rent payments. We face risks associated with property development that can render a project less profitable or not at all and, under certain circumstances, prevent completion of development activities once undertaken, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Large-scale, ground-up development of healthcare properties presents additional risks for us, including risks that: •a development opportunity may be abandoned after expending significant resources resulting in the loss of deposits or failure to recover expenses already incurred; •the development and construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates due to increased interest rates and higher materials, transportation, labor, leasing or other costs, which could make the completion of the development project less profitable; •construction and/or permanent financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all; 22 •the project may not be completed on schedule and can result in increases in construction costs and debt service expenses as a result of a variety of factors that are beyond our control, including: natural disasters, labor conditions, material shortages, regulatory hurdles, civil unrest and acts of war; and •occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed property may not meet expected levels and could be insufficient to make the property profitable. Properties developed or acquired for development likely generate little or no cash flow from the date of acquisition through the date of completion of development. In addition, new development activities, regardless of whether or not they are ultimately successful, may require a substantial portion of our management's time and attention. These risks could result in substantial unanticipated delays or expenses and, under certain circumstances, could prevent completion of development activities once undertaken, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and thus our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to stockholders. Competition may make it difficult to identify and purchase, or develop, suitable healthcare facilities at a favorable cost or to raise funds for such acquisitions or development activities, and we may consequently be unable to continue to grow through these activities. Growing through acquisitions is a part of our business strategy and requires us to identify suitable candidates that meet our acquisition criteria. Recently, we acquired a life science development pipeline to provide an opportunity for further growth. The development, acquisition and financing of healthcare facilities at favorable costs are highly competitive. When we attempt to develop, finance or acquire properties, we face competition from other REITs, investment companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, healthcare operators, lenders, developers and other institutional investors, some of whom have greater resources and lower costs of capital than us. Increased competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our business goals. If we cannot capitalize on our development pipeline, identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of healthcare facilities at favorable prices, or if we are unable to finance such acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Because of the unique and specific improvements required for healthcare facilities, we may be required to incur substantial development and renovation costs to make certain of our properties suitable for other operators and tenants, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Healthcare facilities are typically highly customized and may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare-related uses. The improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and often times tenant-specific. A new or replacement operator or tenant may require different features in a property, depending on that operator's or tenant's particular operations. If a current operator or tenant is unable to pay rent and vacates a property, we may incur substantial expenditures to modify a property before we are able to re-lease the space to another tenant. Also, if the property needs to be renovated to accommodate multiple operators or tenants, we may incur substantial expenditures before we are able to re-lease the space. Consequently, our properties may not be suitable for lease to traditional office or other healthcare tenants without significant expenditures or renovations, which costs may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 23 Our use of joint ventures may limit our flexibility with jointly owned investments and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We intend to develop and/or acquire properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when circumstances warrant the use of these structures. We currently have 11 joint ventures that are not consolidated with our financial statements. Our aggregate investments in these joint ventures represented approximately 2% of our total assets at December 31, 2007. Our participation in joint ventures is subject to the risks that: •we could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could require us to expend additional resources on resolving such impasses or potential disputes; •our joint venture partners could have investment goals that are not consistent with our investment objectives, including the timing, terms and strategies for any investments; •our joint venture partners might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner, which may require us to infuse our own capital into the venture on behalf of the partner despite other competing uses for such capital; and •our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues. From time to time, we acquire other companies and need to integrate them into our existing business. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of acquired companies or they fail to perform as expected, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Acquisitions require the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. Successful integration of the operations of these companies depends primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems, procedures, properties and personnel and to eliminate redundancies and costs. Acquisitions through mergers also pose some risks, including unanticipated liabilities, unexpected costs and the diversion of management's attention to the integration of our operations with those of the target companies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate the operations of the companies that we have acquired, or may acquire in the future, without encountering difficulties. Potential difficulties associated with acquisitions include the loss of key employees, the disruption of our ongoing business or that of the acquired entity, or possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. Estimated cost savings in connection with acquisitions are typically projected to come from various areas that our management identifies through the due diligence and integration planning process; yet, our target companies and their properties may fail to perform as expected. Inaccurate assumptions regarding future rental or occupancy rates could result in overly optimistic estimates of future revenues. Similarly, we may underestimate future operating expenses or the costs necessary to bring properties up to standards established for their intended use or market position. If we have difficulties with any of these areas, or if we later discover additional liabilities or experience unforeseen costs relating to our acquired companies, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect from our acquisitions, and this may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our healthcare facilities. Because transfers of healthcare facilities may be subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate, there may be delays in transferring operations of our facilities to successor operators or we may be prohibited from 24 transferring operations to a successor operator. If we are unable to transfer properties at times opportune to us, our revenues and operations may suffer. We may be unable to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, and even if we are successful in our foreclosure efforts, we may be unable to successfully operate or occupy the underlying real estate, which may adversely affect our ability to recover our investments. If an operator or tenant defaults under one of our mortgages or mezzanine loans, we may have to foreclose on the loan or protect our interest by acquiring title to the property and thereafter making substantial improvements or repairs in order to maximize the facility's investment potential. Operators or tenants may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against our exercise of enforcement or other remedies and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce mortgage obligations. If an operator or tenant seeks bankruptcy protection, the automatic stay provisions of the United States Bankruptcy Code would preclude us from enforcing foreclosure or other remedies against the operator or tenant unless relief is first obtained from the court having jurisdiction over the bankruptcy case. Foreclosure-related costs, high "loan-to-value" ratios or declines in the value of the facility may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our mortgage or mezzanine loan upon foreclosure. Even if we are able to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, we may inherit properties for which we are unable to expeditiously seek tenants or operators, if at all, which would adversely affect our ability to recover our investment. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations, and they may require our management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. We have identified several accounting policies as being "critical" to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations because they require our management to make particularly subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be recorded under different conditions or using different assumptions. The risks related to our critical accounting policies are described in detail under "Critical Accounting Policies" in this report. Because of the inherent uncertainty of the estimates associated with these critical accounting policies, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not change our estimates, which could cause us to make significant subsequent adjustments to the related amounts recorded, which adjustments could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to provide a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management's assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Changes to our business will necessitate ongoing changes to our internal control systems and processes. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, results of 25 operations and financial condition could be materially adversely harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations and there could be a material adverse effect on our stock price. Loss of our key personnel could temporarily disrupt our operations and adversely affect us. We are dependent on the efforts of our executive officers. Although certain of our executive officers have employment agreements with us, we cannot assure you that they will remain employed with us. The loss or limited availability of the services of any of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and be negatively perceived in the capital markets. We may experience uninsured or underinsured losses, which could result in the loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property or decrease anticipated future revenues. We maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are adequate and appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage. However, a large number of our properties are located in areas exposed to earthquake, windstorm and flood and may be subject to other losses. In particular, the Company's life science portfolio is concentrated in areas known to be subject to earthquake activity. The Company currently purchases earthquake coverage with a $300 million per occurrence and a $300 million annual aggregate limit and subject to a deductible of 5% of the value of the affected property. While we purchase insurance for earthquake, windstorm and flood that we believe is adequate in light of current industry practice and analysis prepared by outside consultants, there is no assurance that such insurance will fully cover such losses. These losses can decrease our anticipated revenues from a property and result in the loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property. The insurance market for such exposures can be very volatile and we may be unable to purchase the limits and terms we desire on a commercially reasonable basis in the future. In addition, there are certain exposures where insurance is not purchased as we do not believe it is economically feasible to do so. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our real estate related investments may materially impair the value of those investments. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, as a current or previous owner of real estate, we may be required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous substances released at a property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by the third parties in connection with the contamination. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. Although we (i) currently carry environmental insurance on our properties in an amount and subject to deductibles that we believe are commercially reasonable, and (ii) generally require our operators and tenants to undertake to indemnify us for environmental liabilities they cause, such liabilities could exceed the amount of our insurance, the financial ability of the tenant or operator to indemnify us or the value of the contaminated property. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. As the owner of a site, we may also be liable under common law to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. We may also experience environmental liabilities arising from conditions not known to us. From time to time, we may invest in real estate, or mortgage loans secured by real estate, with environmental problems that materially impair the value of the real estate. There are substantial risks associated with such an investment and we have only limited experience in investing in real estate with environmental liabilities. 26 Risks Related to Our Operators and Tenants Operators and tenants that fail to comply with the requirements of governmental reimbursement programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, licensing and certification requirements, fraud and abuse regulations or new legislative developments may cease to operate or be unable to meet their financial and contractual obligations to us. Our operators and tenants are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that are subject to frequent and substantial changes (sometimes applied retroactively) resulting from legislation, adoption of rules and regulations, and administrative and judicial interpretations of existing law. The ultimate timing or effect of these changes cannot be predicted. These changes may have a dramatic effect on our operators' and tenants' costs of doing business and on the amount of reimbursement by both government and other third-party payors. The failure of any of our operators or tenants to comply with these laws, requirements and regulations could adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and contractual obligations to us. Regulations that affect our operators and tenants include the following: •Fraud and Abuse Laws and Regulations. There are various extremely complex and largely uninterpreted federal and state laws that govern a wide array of referrals, relationships and arrangements, and prohibit fraud by healthcare providers. These laws and regulations include criminal provisions that prohibit filing false claims or making false statements to receive payment or certification under Medicare and Medicaid, or failing to refund overpayments or improper payments. Governments are devoting increasing attention and resources to anti-fraud initiatives against healthcare providers. In addition, the federal False Claims Act allows a private individual with knowledge of fraud to bring a claim on behalf of the federal government and earn a percentage of the federal government's recovery. Because of these incentives, these so-called "whistleblower" suits have become more frequent. The violation of any of these laws or regulations by an operator or tenant may result in the imposition of fines or other penalties that could jeopardize that operator's or tenant's ability to make lease or mortgage payments to us or to continue operating its facility. •Medicare and Medicaid. During 2007, our skilled nursing segment accounted for approximately 4% of our revenues. A portion of our skilled nursing operators' revenues is derived from governmentally-funded reimbursement programs, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, and are consequently subject to the potential adverse effects of decreased reimbursement rates in these programs. Failure to maintain certification and accreditation in these programs would result in a loss of funding from such programs. Loss of certification or accreditation could cause the revenues of our operators and borrowers to decline, potentially jeopardizing their ability to meet their obligations to us. In that event, our revenues from those sources could be reduced, which could in turn cause the value of our affected properties or investments to decline. State licensing and Medicare and Medicaid laws also require operators of nursing homes and assisted living facilities to comply with extensive standards governing operations. Federal and state agencies administering those laws regularly inspect such facilities and investigate complaints. Our operators, borrowers and their managers receive notices of potential sanctions and remedies from time to time, and such sanctions have been imposed from time to time on facilities operated by them. If they are unable to cure deficiencies, sanctions may be imposed that reduce our operators' and borrowers' revenues or cause them to cease operations, thereby potentially jeopardizing their ability to meet their obligations to us. •Licensing and Certification. Our operators and tenants and their respective facilities are subject to regulatory and licensing requirements of federal, state and local authorities and are periodically audited by them to confirm compliance. Failure to obtain licensure or loss or suspension of licensure would prevent a facility from operating or result in a suspension of 27 reimbursement payments until all licensure issues have been resolved and the necessary licenses obtained or reinstated. Our skilled nursing facilities require governmental approval, in the form of a certificate of need that generally varies by state and is subject to change, prior to the addition or construction of new beds, the addition of services or certain capital expenditures. Some of our facilities may be unable to satisfy current and future certificate of need requirements and may for this reason be unable to continue operating in the future. In such event, our revenues from those facilities could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time or permanently. •Life Science Regulation. The process for identifying, manufacturing, testing and gaining approval to market pharmaceutical products is long and entails great risk and expense. Some of our life science tenants must invest significant amounts of cash to bring pharmaceutical products to market, must gain government approvals prior to selling their products, face risks that government reforms, in particular decreases in reimbursement rates under Medicare and Medicaid, will lead to lower revenues for sales of their products, and face challenges in establishing and protecting their intellectual property. We cannot assure you that our life science tenants will be successful in their businesses. If these tenants' businesses are adversely affected, they may have difficulty meeting their financial and contractual obligations to us. •Legislative and Regulatory Developments. Each year, legislative proposals are introduced or proposed in Congress and in some state legislatures that would affect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. We cannot accurately predict whether any proposals will be adopted or, if adopted, what effect, if any, these proposals would have on our operators and tenants and, thus, our business. Increased competition as well as increased operating costs have resulted in lower net revenues for some of our operators and tenants and may affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. The healthcare industry is highly competitive and can become more competitive in the future. The occupancy levels at, and rental income from, our facilities is dependent on the ability of our operators and tenants to compete with entities that have substantial capital resources. These entities compete with other operators and tenants on a number of different levels, including: the quality of care provided, reputation, the physical appearance of a facility, price, the range of services offered, family preference, alternatives for healthcare delivery, the supply of competing properties, physicians, staff, referral sources, location, and the size and demographics of the population in the surrounding area. Private, federal and state payment programs and the effect of laws and regulations may also have a significant influence on the profitability of the properties and their tenants. Our operators and tenants also compete with numerous other companies providing similar healthcare services or alternatives such as home health agencies, life care at home, community-based service programs, retirement communities and convalescent centers. Such competition, which has intensified due to overbuilding in some segments in which we invest, has caused the fill-up rate of newly constructed buildings to slow and the monthly rate that many newly built and previously existing facilities were able to obtain for their services to decrease. We cannot be certain that the operators and tenants of all of our facilities will be able to achieve occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. Further, many competing companies may have resources and attributed that are superior to those of our operators and tenants. Thus, our operators and tenants may encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses which could materially adversely affect their ability meet their financial and other contractual obligation to us, potentially decreasing our revenues and increasing our collection and dispute costs. 28 Our operators and tenants may not procure the necessary insurance to adequately insure against losses. Our leases generally require our tenants and operators to secure and maintain comprehensive liability and property insurance that covers us, as well as the tenants and operators. Some types of losses may not be adequately insured by our tenants and operators. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could incur liability or lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from the property. In such an event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. We continually review the insurance maintained by our tenants and operators. However, we cannot assure you that material uninsured losses, or losses in excess of insurance proceeds, will not occur in the future. Our operators and tenants are faced with litigation and rising liability and insurance costs that may affect their ability to make their lease or mortgage payments. In some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities and these groups have brought litigation against the operators and tenants of such facilities. Also, in several instances, private litigation by patients has succeeded in winning very large damage awards for alleged abuses. The effect of this litigation and potential litigation has been to materially increase the costs incurred by our operators and tenants for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance. In addition, their cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance can be very significant and may increase so long as the present healthcare litigation environment continues. Cost increases could cause our operators to be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments or fail to purchase the appropriate liability and malpractice insurance, potentially decreasing our revenues and increasing our collection and litigation costs. Moreover, to the extent we are required to take back the affected facilities from our operators and tenants, our revenues from those facilities could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time. In addition, as a result of our ownership of healthcare facilities, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits allegedly arising from the actions of our operators or tenants, which may require unanticipated expenditures on our part. We face potential adverse effects from our major operators' or tenants' bankruptcies or insolvencies. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major operator or tenant may adversely affect the income produced by our properties. Our tenants and operators could file for bankruptcy protection or become insolvent in the future. We cannot evict a tenant or operator solely because of its bankruptcy filing. For example, a debtor-lessee may reject its lease with us in a bankruptcy proceeding. In such a case, our claim against the debtor-lessee for unpaid and future rents would be limited by the statutory cap of the United States Bankruptcy Code. This statutory cap might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease and it is quite likely that any claim we might have for unpaid rent would not be paid in full. In addition, a debtor-lessee may assert in a bankruptcy proceeding that its lease should be re-characterized as a financing agreement. If this claim is successful, our rights and remedies as a lender, compared to as a landlord, would generally be more limited. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected as a result of major operators' or tenants' bankruptcies or insolvencies. 29 We have recently acquired properties leased to tenants in the life science industry. These tenants face high levels of regulation, expense and uncertainty that may adversely affect their ability to make payments to us and, consequently, materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Life science tenants, particularly those involved in developing and marketing pharmaceutical products, are subject to certain unique risks, as follows: •some of our tenants require significant outlays of funds for the research, development and clinical testing of their products and technologies. If private investors, the government or other sources of funding are unavailable to support such activities, a tenant's business may be adversely affected or fail. •the research, development, clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of some of our tenants' products require federal, state and foreign regulatory approvals. The approval process is typically long, expensive and uncertain. Even if our tenants have sufficient funds to seek approvals, one or all of their products may fail to obtain the required regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all. Furthermore, some tenants may only have a small number of products under development. If one product fails to receive the required approvals at any stage of development, it could significantly adversely affect our tenant's entire business and its ability to make payments to us. •our tenants with marketable products may be adversely affected by healthcare reform efforts and the reimbursement policies of government or private healthcare payors. •our tenants may be unable to adequately protect their intellectual property under patent, copyright or trade secret laws. Failure to do so could jeopardize their ability to profit from their efforts and to protect their products from competition. We cannot assure you that our life science tenants will be successful in their businesses. If our tenants' businesses are adversely affected, they may have difficulty making payments to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Tax and REIT-Related Risks Loss of HCP, Inc.'s tax status as a REIT would substantially reduce our funds available and would have material adverse consequences to us. HCP, Inc. currently operates and has operated commencing with its taxable year ended December 31, 1985 in a manner that is intended to allow it to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes under the Code. In addition, as described below, we own the stock of HCP Life Science REIT which will elect to be treated as a REIT commencing with its initial taxable year ending December 31, 2007. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect HCP, Inc.'s ability and the ability of HCP Life Science REIT to qualify as REITs. If HCP Life Science REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, HCP, Inc. also would fail to qualify as a REIT unless HCP, Inc. (or HCP Life Science REIT) could make use of certain relief provisions. To qualify as REITs, HCP, Inc. and HCP Life Science REIT must each satisfy a number of asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of HCP, Inc.'s gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and HCP, Inc. must make distributions to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, excluding capital gains. In addition, new legislation, treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our investors if such future events affected HCP, Inc.'s ability to 30 qualify as a REIT for tax purposes. Although we believe that HCP, Inc. and HCP Life Science REIT have been organized and have operated in such manner, we can give no assurance that HCP, Inc. or HCP Life Science REIT have qualified or will continue to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes. If HCP, Inc. loses its REIT status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to make payments of principal and interest on the debt securities we issue and to make distributions to stockholders. If HCP, Inc. fails to qualify as a REIT: •it would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing its taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; •it also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and •unless HCP, Inc. is entitled to relief under statutory provisions, it could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which it were disqualified. In addition, if HCP, Inc. fails to qualify as a REIT, all distributions to stockholders would be subject to tax as regular corporate dividends to the extent of HCP, Inc.'s current and accumulated earnings and profits and it would not be required to make distributions to stockholders. As a result of all these factors, HCP, Inc.'s failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and could materially adversely affect the value of our common stock. Certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. From time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties. Under the Code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties that we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business would be treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. Since we acquire properties for investment purposes, we do not believe that our occasional transfers or disposals of property are properly treated as prohibited transactions. However, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. The Internal Revenue Service may contend that certain transfers or disposals of properties by us are prohibited transactions. While we believe that the Internal Revenue Service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the Internal Revenue Service were to argue successfully that a transfer or disposition of property constituted a prohibited transaction, then we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. In addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes. Certain provisions of Maryland law and our charter and bylaws could hinder, delay or prevent a change in control transaction, even if the transaction involves a premium price for our common stock or our stockholders believe such transaction to be otherwise in their best interests. Certain provisions of Maryland law, our charter and our bylaws have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing transactions that involve an actual or threatened change in control, even if these transactions involve a premium price for our common stock or our stockholders believe such transaction to be otherwise in their best interests. These provisions include the following: •Removal of Directors. Subject to the rights of one or more classes or series of preferred stock to elect one or more directors, our charter provides that a director may only be removed by the 31 affirmative vote or written consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares or by a unanimous vote of all other members of the board of directors. •Stockholder Requested Special Meetings. Our bylaws only permit our stockholders to call a special meeting upon the written request of the stockholders holding, in the aggregate, not less than 50% of the outstanding shares entitled to vote on the business proposed to be transacted at such meeting. •Advance Notice Provisions for Stockholder Nominations and Proposals. Our bylaws do not permit stockholders to nominate persons for election as directors at, or to bring other business before, any meeting of stockholders unless we are notified in a timely manner, in writing, prior to the meeting. •Preferred Stock. Under our charter, our board of directors has authority to issue preferred stock from time to time in one or more series and to establish the terms, preferences and rights of any such series of preferred stock, all without the approval of our stockholders. •Duties of Directors with Respect to Unsolicited Takeovers. Maryland law provides protection for Maryland corporations against unsolicited takeovers by limiting, among other things, the duties of the directors in unsolicited takeover situations. The duties of directors of Maryland corporations do not require them to (a) accept, recommend or respond to any proposal by a person seeking to acquire control of the corporation, (b) make a determination under the Maryland Business Combination Act or the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, or (c) act or fail to act solely because of the effect that the act or failure to act may have on an acquisition or potential acquisition of control of the corporation or the amount or type of consideration that may be offered or paid to the stockholders in an acquisition. Moreover, an act of a director of a Maryland corporation relating to or affecting an acquisition or potential acquisition of control is not subject to any higher duty or greater scrutiny than is applied to any other act of a director. Maryland law also contains a statutory presumption that an act of a director of a Maryland corporation satisfies the applicable standards of conduct for directors under Maryland law. •Unsolicited Takeovers. Under Maryland law, a Maryland corporation with a class of equity securities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and at least three independent directors may elect to be subject to certain statutory provisions relating to unsolicited takeovers which, among other things, would automatically classify the board of directors into three classes with staggered terms of three years each and vest in the board of directors the exclusive right to determine the number of directors and the exclusive right, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, to fill vacancies on the board of directors, even if the remaining directors do not constitute a quorum. These statutory provisions relating to unsolicited takeovers also provide that any director elected to fill a vacancy shall hold office for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the vacancy occurred, rather than the next annual meeting of directors as would otherwise be the case, and until the director's successor is elected and qualified. An election to be subject to any or all of the foregoing statutory provisions may be made in our charter or bylaws, or by resolution of our board of directors without stockholder approval. Any such statutory provision to which we elect to be subject will apply even if other provisions of Maryland law or our charter or bylaws provide to the contrary. Neither our charter nor our bylaws provides that we are subject to any of the foregoing statutory provisions relating to unsolicited takeovers. However, our board of directors could adopt a resolution, without stockholder approval, to elect to become subject to some or all of these statutory provisions. If we made an election to be subject to such statutory provisions and our board of directors was divided into three classes with staggered terms of office of three years each, the classification 32 and staggered terms of office of our directors would make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board of directors since at least two annual meetings of stockholders, instead of one, generally would be required to effect a change in the majority of our board of directors. •Maryland Business Combination Act. The Maryland Business Combination Act provides that, unless exempted, a Maryland corporation may not engage in business combinations, including mergers, dispositions of 10% or more of its assets, issuances of shares of stock and other specified transactions, with an "interested stockholder" or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and thereafter unless specified criteria are met. An interested stockholder is generally a person owning or controlling, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding stock of a Maryland corporation. Unless our board of directors takes action to exempt us, generally or with respect to certain transactions, from this statute in the future, the Maryland Business Combination Act will be applicable to business combinations between us and other persons. In addition to the restrictions on business combinations provided under Maryland law, our charter also contains restrictions on business combinations. Our charter requires that, except in some circumstances, "business combinations" between us and a "related person," including a beneficial holder of 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock, be approved by the affirmative vote of at least 90% of our outstanding voting shares. •Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. Maryland law provides that "control shares" of a corporation acquired in a "control share acquisition" shall have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes eligible to be cast on the matter under the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. "Control shares" means shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock previously acquired by the acquiror, would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of the voting power: one-tenth or more but less than one-third, one-third or more but less than a majority, or a majority or more of all voting power. A "control share acquisition" means the acquisition of control shares, subject to certain exceptions. If voting rights or control shares acquired in a control share acquisition are not approved at a stockholder's meeting, then subject to certain conditions and limitations, the issuer may redeem any or all of the control shares for fair value. If voting rights of such control shares are approved at a stockholder's meeting and the acquiror becomes entitled to vote a majority of the shares of stock entitled to vote, all other stockholders may exercise appraisal rights. If any of our shares are control shares acquired in a control share acquisition, they will be subject to the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act unless our bylaws are amended in the future to exempt the acquisition of control shares generally or with respect to certain transactions. To maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to borrow funds on a short-term basis during unfavorable market conditions. To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income each year, determined by excluding any net capital gain, and we will be subject to regular corporate income taxes to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income each year. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. In order to maintain our REIT status and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of 33 income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. Our charter contains ownership limits with respect to our common stock and other classes of capital stock. Our charter, subject to certain exceptions, contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our common stock and preferred stock that are intended to assist us in preserving our qualification as a REIT. Under our charter, subject to certain exceptions, no person or entity may own, actually or constructively, more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of our common stock or our preferred stock. Additionally, our charter has a 9.9% ownership limitation on the company's voting shares, which may include common stock or other classes of capital stock. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from either ownership limit. The ownership limits may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. As a result of the acquisition of SEUSA, HCP Life Science REIT may have inherited tax liabilities and attributes from SEUSA. We acquired the stock of SEUSA through HCP Life Science REIT. HCP Life Science REIT is a subsidiary of ours that will elect to be treated as a REIT commencing with its initial taxable year ending December 31, 2007. HCP Life Science REIT succeeded to the tax attributes, including tax basis, and earnings and profits, if any, of SEUSA. To qualify as a REIT, HCP Life Science REIT must have distributed such non-REIT earnings and profits by the close of its 2007 taxable year. While we expect HCP Life Science REIT to have satisfied this distribution requirement, any adjustments to SEUSA's income for taxable years ending on or before the acquisition, including as a result of an examination of SEUSA's tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service, could affect the calculation of SEUSA's earnings and profits. If the Internal Revenue Service were to determine that HCP Life Science REIT acquired non-REIT earnings and profits from SEUSA that it failed to distribute prior to the end of its 2007 taxable year, HCP Life Science REIT could nonetheless avoid disqualification as a REIT by using "deficiency dividend" procedures. Under these procedures, HCP Life Science REIT generally would be required to distribute any such earnings and profits to its stockholders within 90 days of the determination and pay a statutory interest charge at a specified rate to the Internal Revenue Service. Such a distribution would be in addition to the distribution of REIT taxable income necessary to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and may require us or HCP Life Science REIT to borrow funds to make the distribution even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for borrowings. In addition, payment of the interest charge could materially adversely affect our cash flow. Additionally, if HCP Life Science REIT recognizes gain on the disposition of any properties formerly owned by SEUSA during the ten-year period beginning on the date on which it acquired the SEUSA stock, it will be required to pay tax at the highest regular corporate tax rate on such gain to the extent of the excess of (a) the fair market value of the asset over (b) its adjusted basis in the asset, in each case determined as of the date on which it acquired the SEUSA stock. Any taxes paid by HCP Life Science REIT would reduce the amount available for distribution by HCP Life Science REIT to us. As a result of the CRP merger and the CRC merger, we may have inherited tax liabilities and attributes from CRP and CRC. Prior to the CRP merger, CRP was organized as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. If CRP failed to qualify as a REIT for any of its taxable years, it would be required to pay federal income tax 34 (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. Unless statutory relief provisions apply, CRP would have been disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which it lost qualification. Because the CRP merger was treated for income tax purposes as if CRP sold all of its assets in a taxable transaction to us, if CRP did not qualify as a REIT for the taxable year of the merger, it would be subject to tax in respect of the built-in gain in all of its assets. "Built-in gain" generally means the excess of the fair market value of an asset over its adjusted tax basis. As successor-in-interest to CRP, we would be required to pay these taxes. After the merger, the nature of the assets that we acquired from CRP and the income we derive from those assets may have an effect on our tax status as a REIT. In connection with the CRP merger, CRP's REIT counsel rendered an opinion to us, dated as of the closing date of the merger, to the effect that CRP qualified as a REIT under the Code for the taxable years ending December 31, 1999 generally through December 31, 2005, CRP was organized in conformity with the requirements for qualification as a REIT, and CRP's method of operation had enabled CRP to satisfy the requirements for qualification as a REIT under the Code for the taxable years ending on or prior to the closing date of the merger. This opinion was based on various assumptions and representations as to factual matters, including representations made by CRP in a factual certificate provided by one of its officers, as well as other oral and written statements of officers and other representatives of CRP and others as to the existence and consequence of certain factual and other matters. As a result of the CRC merger, we succeeded to the assets and the liabilities of CRC, including any liabilities for unpaid taxes and any tax liabilities created in connection with the CRC merger. At the closing of the CRC merger, we received an opinion of CRC's counsel, and CRC and its stockholders received an opinion of their counsel, substantially to the effect that, on the basis of the facts, representations and assumptions set forth or referred to in such opinions, for federal income tax purposes the CRC merger qualified as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code. To the extent that the CRC merger so qualified, no gain or loss was recognized by CRC or us in the CRC merger. If the CRC merger did not qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code, the CRC merger would have been treated as a sale of CRC's assets to HCP in a taxable transaction, and CRC would have recognized taxable gain. In such a case, as CRC's successor-in-interest, we would be required to pay the tax on any such gain. Assuming that the CRC merger qualified as a reorganization under the Code, we succeeded to the tax attributes and earnings and profits of CRC. To qualify as a REIT, we must have distributed such earnings and profits by the close of the taxable year in which the CRC merger occurred. Any adjustments of CRC's income for taxable years ending on or before the CRC merger, including as a result of an examination of CRC's tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service, could affect the calculation of CRC's earnings and profits. If the Internal Revenue Service were to determine that we acquired earnings and profits from CRC that we failed to distribute prior to the end of the taxable year in which the CRC merger occurred, we could avoid disqualification as a REIT by using "deficiency dividend" procedures described above. The opinions of counsel delivered in connection with the CRP merger and the CRC merger represent the best legal judgment of counsel and are not binding on the Internal Revenue Service or the courts. There can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service will agree with the conclusions in the above-described opinions. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 35 