ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the risks described in “Competition,” “Government Regulation,” and “Taxation of HCP” and elsewhere in this report, which risks are incorporated by reference into this section, before making an investment decision regarding our company. The risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones facing us and there may be additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently consider not likely to have a significant impact. All of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Operators If our facility operators are unable to operate our properties in a manner sufficient to generate income, they may be unable to make rent and loan payments to us. The healthcare industry is highly competitive and we expect that it may become more competitive in the future. Our operators are subject to competition from other healthcare providers that provide similar services. Such competition, which has intensified due to overbuilding in some segments in which we operate, has caused the fill-up rate of newly constructed buildings to slow and the monthly rate that many newly built and previously existing facilities were able to obtain for their services to decrease. The profitability of healthcare facilities depends upon several factors, including the number of physicians using the healthcare facilities or referring patients there, competitive systems of healthcare delivery and the size and composition of the population in the surrounding area. Private, federal and state payment programs and the effect of other laws and regulations may also have a significant influence on the revenues and income of the properties. If our operators are not competitive with other healthcare providers and are unable to generate income, they may be unable to make rent and loan payments to us, which could adversely affect our cash flow and financial performance and condition. The bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of our facility operators could significantly delay our ability to collect unpaid rents or require us to find new operators. Our financial position and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected by financial difficulties experienced by any of our major operators, including bankruptcy, insolvency or a general downturn in the business, or in the event any of our major operators do not renew or extend their relationship with us as their lease terms expire. We are exposed to the risk that our operators may not be able to meet their obligations, which may result in their bankruptcy or insolvency. Although our leases and loans provide us the right to terminate an investment, evict an operator, demand immediate repayment and other remedies, the bankruptcy laws 22 afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. An operator in bankruptcy may be able to restrict our ability to collect unpaid rents or interest during the bankruptcy proceeding. Tenet Healthcare Corporation and Sunrise Senior Living account for a significant percentage of our revenues and are currently experiencing significant legal, financial and regulatory difficulties. During 2006, Tenet Healthcare Corporation and Sunrise Senior Living accounted for approximately 9% and 5%, respectively, of our revenues. The properties managed by Sunrise were acquired from CRP on October 5, 2006. According to public disclosures, Tenet and Sunrise are experiencing significant legal, financial and regulatory difficulties. We cannot predict with certainty the impact, if any, of the outcome of these uncertainties on our consolidated financial statements. The failure or inability of Tenet or Sunrise to pay its obligations could materially reduce our revenue, net income and cash flows, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock and could cause us to incur impairment charges or a loss on the sale of the properties. Our operators are faced with increased litigation and rising insurance costs that may affect their ability to make their lease or mortgage payments. In some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities, and these groups have brought litigation against operators. Also, in several instances, private litigation by patients has succeeded in winning very large damage awards for alleged abuses. The effect of this litigation and potential litigation has been to materially increase the costs incurred by our operators for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance. In addition, the cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance has increased and may continue to increase so long as the present litigation environment affecting the operations of healthcare facilities continues. Continued cost increases could cause our operators to be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments, potentially decreasing our revenue and increasing our collection and litigation costs. Moreover, to the extent we are required to take back the affected facilities, our revenue from those facilities could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time. Decline in the skilled nursing sector and changes to Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates may have significant adverse consequences to us. During 2006, our skilled nursing properties accounted for approximately 7% of our revenues. Certain of our skilled nursing operators and facilities continue to experience operating problems in part due to a national nursing shortage, increased liability insurance costs, and low levels of Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement. Due to economic challenges facing many states, nursing homes will likely continue to be under-funded. These challenges have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our long-term care facilities and facility operators. We may rely on credit enhancements to our leases for minimum rent payments. Our leases may have credit enhancement provisions, such as guarantees or shortfall reserves provided by tenants or operators. These credit enhancement provisions may terminate at either a specific time during the lease term or once net operating income of the property exceeds a specified amount. These provisions may also have limits on the overall amount of the credit enhancement. After the termination of a credit enhancement, or in the event that the maximum limit of a credit enhancement is reached, we may only look to the tenant to make lease payments. In the event that a credit enhancement has expired or the maximum limit has been reached, or in the event that a provider of a credit enhancement is unable to meet its obligations, our results of operations and our cash available for distribution could be adversely affected if our properties are unable to generate sufficient funds from operations to meet minimum rent payments and the tenants do not otherwise have the resources to make the rent payments. Our tenants may be thinly 23 capitalized entities that rely on the cash flow generated from the properties to fund rent obligations under their lease. Risks Related to Real Estate Investment and Our Structure We rely on external sources of capital to fund future capital needs, and if our access to such capital is difficult or on commercially unreasonable terms, we may not be able to meet maturing commitments or make future investments necessary to grow our business. In order to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, we are required, among other things, to distribute to our stockholders each year at least 90% of our REIT taxable income. Because of this distribution requirement, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital needs in connection with acquisitions, from cash retained from operations. As a result, we rely on external sources of capital. If we are unable to obtain needed capital at all or only on unfavorable terms from these sources, we might not be able to make the investments needed to grow our business, or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature, which could negatively affect the ratings of our debt and even, in extreme circumstances, affect our ability to continue operations. Our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including: · general market conditions; · the market’s perception of our growth potential; · our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; and · the market price of the shares of our capital stock. If we are unable to identify and purchase suitable healthcare facilities at a favorable cost, we will be unable to continue to grow through acquisitions. Our ability to grow through acquisitions is integral to our business strategy and requires us to identify suitable acquisition candidates that meet our criteria and are compatible with our growth strategy. The acquisition and financing of healthcare facilities at favorable costs is highly competitive. We may not be successful in identifying suitable property or other assets that meet our acquisition criteria or in consummating acquisitions on satisfactory terms or at all. If we cannot identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of healthcare facilities at favorable prices, or if we are unable to finance such acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, our business will suffer. Unforeseen costs associated with the acquisition of new properties could reduce our profitability. Our business strategy contemplates future acquisitions. The acquisitions we make may not prove to be successful. We might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities. Further, newly acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. We might never realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, which could adversely affect our profitability. Since real estate investments are illiquid, we may not be able to sell properties when we desire. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. We may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in the real estate market. This inability to respond to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our ability to service our debt. The real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: · adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; · changes in interest rates and in the availability, costs and terms of financing; 24 · changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning and other ordinances and costs of compliance with laws and regulations; · the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures; · changes in operating expenses; and · civil unrest, acts of war and natural disasters, including earthquakes and floods, which may result in uninsured and underinsured losses. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. In addition, there are provisions under the federal income tax laws applicable to REITs that may limit our ability to recognize the full economic benefit from a sale of our assets. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Transfers of healthcare facilities generally require regulatory approvals, and alternative uses of healthcare facilities are limited. Because transfers of healthcare facilities may be subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate, there may be delays in transferring operations of our facilities to successor operators or we may be prohibited from transferring operations to a successor operator. In addition, substantially all of our properties are healthcare facilities that may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare-related uses. If we are unable to transfer properties at times opportune to us, our revenue and operations may suffer. We may experience uninsured or underinsured losses. We generally require our operators to secure and maintain comprehensive liability and property insurance that covers us, as well as the operators, on most of our properties. Some types of losses, however, either may be uninsurable or too expensive to insure against. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In such an event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. We cannot assure you that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future. Increases in interest rates may increase our interest expense and adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness. At December 31, 2006, our total consolidated indebtedness was approximately $6.2 billion, of which approximately $1.7 billion, or 27%, is subject to variable interest rates. This variable rate debt had a weighted average interest rate of approximately 6.1% per annum. Increases in interest rates on this variable rate debt would increase our interest expense, which could harm our cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness. Our acquisition of additional properties may have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial position, credit ratings and/or results of operations As part of our business strategy, we actively acquire healthcare facilities. Our recent acquisition of CRP and CRC is an example of the execution of this strategy. We may acquire healthcare facilities through various structures, including transactions involving portfolios, single assets, joint ventures and acquisitions of all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other REITs or similar real estate entities. We 25 anticipate that our acquisitions will be financed through a combination of methods, including proceeds from equity and/or debt offerings, advances under our credit facilities and other incurrence or assumption of indebtedness. Any significant acquisition or series of acquisitions financed by incurrence of indebtedness may cause us to become highly leveraged and/or have a negative impact on the credit ratings of our senior debt and preferred stock. Additionally, newly acquired properties may fail to perform as expected. Inaccurate assumptions regarding future rental or occupancy rates could result in overly optimistic estimates of future revenues. Similarly, we may underestimate future operating expenses or the costs necessary to bring an acquired property up to standards established for its intended market position. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of CRP and other target companies, our business and earnings may be negatively affected. Mergers involve the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. Successful integration of the operations of these companies depend primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems, procedures, properties and personnel and to eliminate redundancies and costs. Mergers also pose other risks commonly associated with similar transactions, including unanticipated liabilities, unexpected costs and the diversion of management’s attention to the integration of our operations with those of the target companies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate CRP or other target companies’ operations without encountering difficulties, including, but not limited to, the loss of key employees, the disruption of its respective ongoing businesses or possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. Estimated cost savings are projected to come from various areas that our management has identified through the due diligence and integration planning process. If we have difficulties with any of these areas, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect to result from the merger, and this may hurt our business and earnings. In addition, we may experience greater than expected costs or difficulties relating to the integration of the business of CRP or other target companies and/or may not realize expected cost savings from mergers within the expected time frame, if at all. Our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. In certain circumstances, the effectiveness of internal controls is dependent on information received from independent third parties. For example, we consolidate our investments in certain variable interest entities (“VIEs”) when it is determined that we are the primary beneficiary of the VIE. If management of the consolidated VIEs fails to provide us necessary financial information either in a timely manner or at all, it could adversely impact our financial reporting and our internal controls over financial reporting. Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal controls over financial reporting, which may occur in the future, could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. We lease 76 properties to a total of 9 tenants that have been identified as VIEs. We acquired these leases (variable interests) on October 5, 2006 in our acquisition of CRP. CRP determined they were not the primary beneficiary of the VIEs, and we are generally required to carry forward CRP’s accounting conclusions after the acquisition relative to their primary beneficiary assessment. We may need to reassess whether we are the primary beneficiary in the future upon the occurrence of a reconsideration event, as defined by FIN 46R. If we determine that we are the primary beneficiary in the future and consolidate the 26 tenant, our financial statements would reflect the tenant’s facility level revenues and expenses rather than lease revenue. Federal Income Tax Risks Loss of our tax status as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us. We currently operate and have operated commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1985 in a manner that is intended to allow us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must satisfy a number of requirements regarding the composition of our assets. Also, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding capital gains. In addition, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our investors or our ability to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes. Although we believe that we have been organized and have operated in such manner, we can give no assurance that we have qualified or will continue to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes. If we lose our REIT status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to make payments of principal and interest on the debt securities we issue and to make distributions to our stockholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT: · we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; · we also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and · unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, all distributions to stockholders would be subject to tax as regular corporate dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits and we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. From time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties. Under the Internal Revenue Code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties that we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business would be treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. Since we acquire properties for investment purposes, we do not believe that our occasional transfers or disposals of property are properly treated as prohibited transactions. However, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. The Internal Revenue Service may contend that certain transfers or disposals of properties by us are prohibited transactions. While we believe that the Internal Revenue Service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the Internal Revenue Service were to argue successfully that a transfer or disposition of property constituted a prohibited transaction, then we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the 27 prohibited transaction. In addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes. As a result of the CRP merger and the CRC merger, we may have inherited tax liabilities and attributes from CRP and CRC. Prior to the CRP merger, CRP was organized as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. If CRP failed to qualify as a REIT for any of its taxable years, it would be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. Unless statutory relief provisions apply, CRP would have been disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which it lost qualification. Because the CRP merger was treated for income tax purposes as if CRP sold all of its assets in a taxable transaction to us, if CRP did not qualify as a REIT for the taxable year of the merger, it would be subject to tax in respect of the built-in gain in all of its assets. “Built-in gain” generally means the excess of the fair market value of an asset over its adjusted tax basis. As successor-in-interest to CRP, we would be required to pay these taxes. After the merger, the nature of the assets that we acquired from CRP and the income we derive from those assets may have an effect on our tax status as a REIT. In connection with the CRP merger, CRP’s REIT counsel rendered an opinion to us, dated as of the closing date of the merger, to the effect that CRP qualified as a REIT under the Code for the taxable years ending December 31, 1999 generally through December 31, 2005, CRP was organized in conformity with the requirements for qualification as a REIT, and CRP’s method of operation had enabled CRP to satisfy the requirements for qualification as a REIT under the Code for the taxable years ending on or prior to the closing date of the merger. This opinion was based on various assumptions and representations as to factual matters, including representations made by CRP in a factual certificate provided by one of its officers, as well as other oral and written statements of officers and other representatives of CRP and others as to the existence and consequence of certain factual and other matters. As a result of the CRC merger, we succeeded to the assets and the liabilities of CRC, including any liabilities for unpaid taxes and any tax liabilities created in connection with the CRC merger. At the closing of the CRC merger, we received an opinion of CRC’s counsel, and CRC and its stockholders received an opinion of their counsel, substantially to the effect that, on the basis of the facts, representations and assumptions set forth or referred to in such opinions, for federal income tax purposes the CRC merger qualified as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code. To the extent that the CRC merger so qualified, no gain or loss was recognized by CRC or us in the CRC merger. If the CRC merger did not qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code, the CRC merger would have been treated as a sale of CRC’s assets to HCP in a taxable transaction, and CRC would have recognized taxable gain. In such a case, as CRC’s successor-in-interest, we would be required to pay the tax on any such gain. Assuming that the CRC merger qualified as a reorganization under the Code, we succeeded to the tax attributes and earnings and profits of CRC. To qualify as a REIT, we must distribute such earnings and profits by the close of the taxable year in which the CRC merger occurred. Any adjustments of CRC’s income for taxable years ending on or before the CRC merger, including as a result of an examination of CRC’s tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service, could affect the calculation of CRC’s earnings and profits. If the Internal Revenue Service were to determine that we acquired earnings and profits from CRC that we failed to distribute prior to the end of the taxable year in which the CRC merger occurred, we could avoid disqualification as a REIT by using “deficiency dividend” procedures. Under these procedures, we generally would be required to distribute any such earnings and profits to our stockholders within 90 days of the determination and pay a statutory interest charge at a specified rate to the Internal Revenue Service. 28 The opinions of counsel delivered in connection with the CRP merger and the CRC merger represent the best legal judgment of counsel and are not binding on the Internal Revenue Service or the courts. None of us, CRP or CRC has requested nor will request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service as to the status of CRP as a REIT or the tax consequences of the CRC merger, and there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service will agree with the conclusions in the above-described opinions. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 