Risk Factors An investment in the securities involves a high degree of risk. Investors need to carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this section “D” and the Exhibits hereto. 8 Industry Competition The mining industry is a highly diverse and competitive international business. The selection of geographic areas of interest are only limited by the degree of risk a company is willing to accept by the acquisition of properties in emerging or developed markets and/or prospecting in explored or virgin territory. Mining by its nature, is a competitive business with the search for fresh ground with good exploration potential and the raising of the requisite capital to move projects forward to production. Globally the mining industry is prone to cyclical variations in the price of the commodities produced by it, as dictated by supply and demand factors, speculative factors and industry-controlled marketing cartels. Nature provides the ultimate uncertainty with geological and occasionally climatic surprises. Commensurate with the acceptance of this risk profile is the potential for high rewards. Exploration and Development The exploration, and development of, and the production from mineral deposits is potentially subject to a number of political, economic and other risks. Exploration, development and production activities are potentially subject to political, economic and other risks, including: - cancellation or renegotiation of contracts; - changes in local and foreign laws and regulations; - changes in tax laws; - delays or refusal in granting prospecting permissions, mining authorizations and work permits for foreign management staff; - environmental controls and permitting - expropriation or nationalization of property or assets; - foreign exchange controls; government mandated social expenditures, such as comprehensive health care for HIV/AIDS infected employees and families; - import and export regulation, including restrictions on the sale of their production in foreign currencies; - industrial relations and the associated stability thereof; - inflation of cost that is not compensated for by a currency devaluation; - requirement that a foreign subsidiary or operating unit have a domestic joint venture partner, possibly which the foreign company must subsidize; - restrictions on the ability of local operating companies to sell their production for foreign currencies, and on the ability of such companies to hold these foreign currencies in offshore and/or local bank accounts; - restrictions on the ability of a foreign company to have management control of exploration and/or development and/or mining operations; - restrictions on the remittance of dividend and interest payments offshore; - retroactive tax or royalty claims; - risks of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism; - royalties and tax increases or claims by governmental entities; - unreliable local infrastructure and services such as power, communications and transport links; - other risks arising out of foreign sovereignty over the areas in which Caledonia’s operations are conducted. Such risks could potentially arise in any country in which Caledonia operates. However the risks are regarded as greater in South Africa and Zambia and particularly in Zimbabwe. In Southern Africa, Black Economic Empowerment Legislation and a number of economic and social issues may result in increased political and economic risks of operating in that area. The President of the Republic of Zimbabwe brought the Indigenisation and Economic Empowerment Act into law through decree in March 2008. The law seeks to ensure that a majority stake (at least 51%) in all companies is held by Indigenous Zimbabweans. Additionally the Mines and Minerals Amendment Bill was presented before the closure of the last session of Parliament but not passed into law, and has thus lapsed. The Mines and Minerals Amendment Bill if enacted into law also seeks to ensure among other things that a majority stake is held in all mining companies by either indigenous Zimbabweans or the Government of Zimbabwe. Whilst neither the two pieces of legislation allow for compulsory acquisition, the Mines and Minerals Amendment Bill 9 did provide for severe penalties in the form of extremely prohibitive taxes and potential withdrawal of mineral rights in the event of non voluntary compliance within certain time frames. The Zambian government has announced the following proposed changes to their tax laws that will have a bearing on the Nama cobalt project if passed into law. The key changes are: · Increase in mineral royalty from 0.6% to 3% · Increase in profit tax rate from 25% to 30% · Introduction of variable profits tax of 15% for net profits above 8% · Introduction of a windfall profit tax for copper mines · Capital allowances reduced from 100% to 25% These measures have been highly controversial with mining companies, many of which invested in the country under specific tax incentives and formalised their business models accordingly. Some mining companies are threatening legal recourse as they argue their businesses will become unviable. Proposed capital expenditure projects are being reconsidered. Various representations have been made by the mining companies through the Chamber of Mines to the government since the budget announcement at the end of January, however the government has taken a firm position, and we understand that the changes have been approved by parliament. Consequently, Caledonia’s exploration, development and production activities may be substantially affected by factors beyond Caledonia’s control, any of which could materially adversely affect Caledonia’s financial position or results from operations. Furthermore, in the event of a dispute arising from such activities, Caledonia may be subject to exclusive jurisdiction of courts outside North America or may not be successful in subjecting persons to the jurisdiction of the courts in North America, which could adversely affect the outcome of a dispute. History of Losses; Accumulated Deficit; No Assurance of Revenue or Operating Profit Since inception from February 1992, Caledonia has recorded a loss in every year except 1994 and 2000. As at December 31, 2007, the consolidated accumulated deficit was $171.89 million. Write-downs on capital assets and mineral properties are typical for the mining industry. Caledonia’s policy is to review the carrying value of assets relative to current market conditions on an annual basis. Fluctuating Minerals Prices and Foreign Currency Exchange Rates As Caledonia’s activities primarily relate to the exploration, development and production of minerals the fluctuating World prices for such minerals have a significant potential effect on the Company’s future activities and the potential profitability of any of its minerals production activities. There is never any assurance, when activities are undertaken, or production operations are commenced, that the World price of the minerals involved will continue at a sufficiently high price to justify the ongoing activities or the continuation of the production. Most costs incurred by the Company in its exploration, development and production activities in southern Africa have to be paid in local currencies. However, mineral prices are generally quoted in United States dollars. The profitability of any production operations of the Company and the potential profitability of its exploration and development activities will therefore be seriously affected by adverse changes in the currency exchange rates. Black Empowerment and Indigenization The governments of the southern African countries in which the Company operates have, or are proposing, legislation (typically referred to as “black empowerment”) requiring companies to allow participation in their shareholdings and business enterprises by the indigenous (i.e. black) population. In not all instances is it assured that such interests will have to be paid for at full fair value. In Zimbabwe, when Caledonia purchased the Blanket Mine, it agreed to establish a trust for the benefit of the employees of the Blanket Mine, and the area in which it is located, into which up to 30% of the issued shares of the wholly owned subsidiary which acquired and is operating the Blanket Mine would be placed - for no consideration. The ultimate terms and conditions of 10 black empowerment arrangements forced on the Company - and the Zimbabwean trust when it is established - could seriously affect the profitability and economic prospects of the Company. Need for Additional Funds The Company’s plans for ongoing and increased activity - and the development, ultimately, of cobalt production operations in Zambia - will require funding in excess of the Company’s funds on hand. There is no assurance that all of the required additional funding can be raised and the Company may therefore have to reduce its ongoing activities. The primary method by which the Company is seeking to finance the construction of, initially, a bulk sample pilot test plant - and ultimately production facilities - on its Zambian cobalt properties is to seek long-term agreements for future sales of cobalt concentrate to be produced from the property. These agreements have been secured during February and March 2008 whereby 51,560 tonnes of cobalt metal equivalent will be sold to four large Chinese refiners over the 5 year period ending in 2013. Where possible the Company seeks, and will continue to seek, for new mineral property acquisitions or exploration activities joint venture agreements with other companies which will be required to supply all, or a significant portion, of the required funding. Dependence upon Key Personnel Caledonia’s success depends (i) on the continued contributions of its directors, executive officers, management and consultants, and (ii) on Caledonia’s ability to attract new personnel whenever Caledonia seeks to implement its business strategy. There is no assurance that the Company will always be able to locate and hire all of the personnel that it may consider that it requires. The Company, where it considers it appropriate, engages consulting and service companies to undertake some of the work function. Mr. Harvey retired from his position as Technical Director in December 2005, but continues as a director, and James Johnstone retired from his position as Chief Operating Officer, but also continues as a Director. Steven Curtis was appointed Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer in April 2006. In order to split the roles of the Chairman and the CEO Mr. Rupert Pardoe of Johannesburg, South Africa was appointed as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Corporation in February 2005. Mr. Hayden stepped down as the Chairman at that time but continues as the Corporation’s President and CEO. Robert Liverant was appointed a Director and a member of the Audit Committee in January 2007, and Mr. Leigh Wilson was appointed a Director and a member of the Audit Committee in March 2008. Absence of Dividends The Company has never paid or declared any dividends. Possible Volatility of Share Price Market prices for mining company securities, by their nature, are volatile. Factors, such as rapidly changing commodity prices, political unrest globally and in countries where Caledonia operates, speculative interest in mining stocks etc. are but a few factors affecting the volatility of the share price. Caledonia listed its shares on the London Stock Exchange’s Alternative Investment Market (“AIM”) in June 2005 and is trying to attract more institutional and stock analyst coverage of its shares. 