ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries are highly competitive, and some of our competitors may have greater resources than we do. 13 We operate in a highly competitive business environment and our sales could be negatively impacted by our inability to maintain or increase prices, changes in geographic or product mix, or the decision of our customers to purchase competitive products instead of our products. We compete not only with other suppliers to the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle producers, but also suppliers to traditional site-built homebuilders and suppliers of cabinetry and flooring. Sales could also be affected by pricing, purchasing, financing, operational, advertising, promotional, or other decisions made by purchasers of our products. The cyclical nature of the domestic housing market has caused our sales and operating results to fluctuate. These fluctuations may continue in the future, which could result in operating losses during downturns. The U.S. housing industry is highly cyclical and is influenced by many national and regional economic and demographic factors, including: terms and availability of financing for homebuyers and retailers; consumer confidence; interest rates; population and employment trends; income levels; housing demand; and general economic conditions, including inflation, and recessions. The manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries and the industrial markets are affected by the fluctuations in the residential housing market. As a result of the foregoing factors, our sales and operating results fluctuate, and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future. Moreover, we may experience operating losses during cyclical and seasonal downturns in the residential housing market. The current downturn in the residential housing market has had an adverse impact on our operations. Approximately 80 to 85% of our industrial revenue is directly or indirectly influenced by conditions in the residential housing market. In 2007, the residential housing market experienced overall declines and credit concerns that are expected to continue through 2008 and potentially into 2009. The decline in demand for residential housing and the tightening of consumer credit have lowered demand for our products and have had an adverse impact on our operations. Our results for the year ended December 31, 2007, include a net loss of $5.8 million, including $2.4 million in restructuring charges, on net sales of $435.2 million. The current downturn in the residential housing market may continue to adversely impact our operations in 2008. Restrictive covenants — The terms of our Credit Agreement contain various financial performance and other covenants with which we must remain in compliance. If we do not remain in compliance with these covenants, our Credit Agreement could be terminated and the amounts outstanding thereunder could become immediately due and payable. The documents governing the terms of our Credit Agreement contain financial and non-financial covenants that place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. The terms of this agreement include covenants that allow for a maximum leverage limit, require minimum levels of fixed charge coverage and net worth that, to varying degrees, restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: 14 • make capital investments; • engage in new lines of business; • incur indebtedness, contingent liabilities, guarantees, and liens; • pay dividends; • repurchase common stock; • repay subordinated debt; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and • acquire other companies. If we fail to comply with any of these covenants, the lenders could cause our debt to become due and payable prior to maturity, or result in refinancing the related indebtedness under unfavorable terms. If our debt were accelerated, our assets might not be sufficient to repay our debt in full. At December 31, 2007, we were in violation of the leverage covenant in our Credit Agreement. We operated under a waiver of this violation until March 19, 2008, at which time the credit facility was amended. In addition, our Credit Agreement contains provisions that require us, under certain circumstances, to use a significant portion of our Excess Cash Flow (as defined) to repay outstanding balances under the facility if our Excess Cash Flow is not reinvested in the year it is generated, as required under the agreement. As a result, our ability to execute our growth and diversification strategies could be limited. For additional detail and discussion concerning these financial covenants see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7 of this Report. Seasonality and cyclical economic conditions affect the markets the Company serves. The manufactured housing and recreational vehicle markets are cyclical and dependent upon various factors, including interest rates, access to financing, inventory and production levels. Economic and demographic factors can cause substantial fluctuations in production, which in turn impact sales and operating results. Demand for recreational vehicles and manufactured housing generally declines during the winter season. Our sales levels and operating results could be negatively impacted by changes in any of these items. Increased cost and limited availability of raw materials may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Prices of certain materials, including gypsum, lauan, particleboard, MDF, aluminum and other products, can be volatile and change dramatically with changes in supply and demand. Certain products are purchased from overseas and are dependent upon vessel shipping schedules and port availability. Further, certain of our commodity product suppliers often operate at or near capacity, resulting in some products having the potential of being put on allocation. Our sales levels and operating results could be negatively impacted by changes in any of these items. The ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers and key personnel may adversely affect our operations. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key personnel could reduce our ability to manage our business and strategic plan in the short term and could cause our sales and operating results to decline. Our ability to integrate acquired businesses may adversely affect operations. As part of our business and strategic plan, we continue to look for strategic acquisitions to provide shareholder value. In 2007, we acquired American Hardwoods, Inc. (“American Hardwoods”) and Adorn 15 Holdings, Inc. (“Adorn”). These acquisitions, and any future acquisitions, require the effective integration of an existing business and its administrative, financial, sales and marketing, and manufacturing and other functions to maximize synergies. These acquisitions involve a number of risks that may affect our financial performance including increased leverage, diversion of management resources, assumption of liabilities of the acquired businesses, and possible corporate culture conflicts. If we are unable to successfully integrate these acquisitions, we may not realize the benefits identified in our due diligence process, and our financial results may be negatively impacted. Additionally, significant unexpected liabilities may arise after completion of these acquisitions. Increased levels of indebtedness may harm our financial condition and results of operations. Pursuant to our Credit Agreement, we established a five-year senior secured credit facility comprised of a five-year $35,000,000 revolving line of credit and a $75,000,000 term loan. In addition, pursuant to a Securities Purchase Agreement, dated April 10, 2007, Tontine Capital Partners, L.P. and Tontine Capital Overseas Master Fund, L.P. (collectively “Tontine”) provided interim debt financing in connection with the acquisition of Adorn in the aggregate amount of $13,975,000 in exchange for 9.5% senior subordinated notes (the “senior notes”), which, if not prepaid by May 18, 2008, will accrue interest at a rate of 13.5%. The proceeds of these financings were used to finance the Adorn acquisition, to provide liquidity for the working capital needs of the combined companies and to repay borrowings under our previous credit facility. Our increased indebtedness as a result of the Adorn acquisition as well as our greater need for working capital may harm our financial condition and negatively impact our results of operations. The increase in our level of indebtedness could have consequences on our future operations, including (i) making it more difficult for us to meet our payments on other outstanding debt; (ii) an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements, which could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable; (iii) reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; (iv) limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and (v) placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. Increased levels of inventory may adversely affect our profitability. Our customers generally do not maintain long-term supply contracts and, therefore, we must bear the risk of advance estimation of customer orders. We maintain a substantial inventory to support these customers’ needs. Changes in demand, market conditions or product specifications could result in material obsolescence and a lack of alternative markets for certain of our customer specific products and could negatively impact operating results. Potential impairment charges — We have a significant amount of goodwill, amortizable intangible assets, deferred tax assets and property, plant and equipment which are subject to periodic review and testing for impairment. A significant portion of our total assets at December 31, 2007 were comprised of goodwill, amortizable intangible assets, deferred tax assets and property, plant and equipment. Under generally accepted accounting principles each of these assets is subject to periodic review and testing to determine whether the asset is recoverable or realizable. These tests require projections of future cash flows and estimates of fair value of the assets. Unfavorable trends in the industries in which we operate or in our operations can affect these projections and estimates. Significant impairment charges, although not affecting cash flow, could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position. A variety of factors could influence fluctuations in the market price for our common stock. 16 The market price of our common stock could fluctuate in the future in response to a number of factors, including those discussed below. The market price of our common stock has in the past fluctuated and is likely to continue to fluctuate. Some of the factors that may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • variations in our and our competitors’ operating results; • historically low trading volume; • high concentration of shares held by institutional investors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • additions or departure of key personnel; • events affecting other companies that the market deems comparable to us; • general conditions in industries in which we operate; • general conditions in the United States and abroad; • the presence or absence of short selling of our common stock; • future sales of our common stock or debt securities; and • announcements by us or our competitors of technological improvements or new products. Fluctuations in the stock market may have an adverse effect upon the price of our common stock. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial price and trading fluctuations. These fluctuations have resulted in volatility in the market prices of securities that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Ownership of a significant portion of our common stock is concentrated in the hands of a few holders. On March 15, 2008 we had 7,133,033 shares of common stock outstanding. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of common stock, including the common stock offered pursuant to this prospectus, the common stock issuable upon the exercise of options, or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale, will have on the market price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. On March 15, 2008, Tontine owned 3,468,089 shares of common stock or approximately 49% of our total common stock outstanding. Pursuant to a Standby Purchase Agreement in connection with a proposed rights offering to be voted on by our shareholders at our Annual Meeting on May 14, 2008, Tontine has agreed that, upon the expiration of the rights offering, it will purchase in a private placement (i) its pro rata portion of the shares offered in the rights offering, and (ii) any and all shares not subscribed for by other shareholders in the rights offering at the proposed $7.00 per share subscription price. As a result, Tontine may further increase its percentage ownership. In addition, based on filings made with the SEC, we are aware of 3 other institutions that each hold in excess of 5% of our outstanding common stock. We are not able to predict whether or when Tontine or the other institutions will sell substantial amounts of our common stock. Sales of our common stock by these institutions could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We could be influenced by Tontine, whose interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. At March 15, 2008, Tontine held approximately 49% of our outstanding common stock. Pursuant to a Standby Purchase Agreement, Tontine is acting as the standby purchaser of any and all shares not subscribed for by other shareholders in the proposed rights offering and, as a result, may further increase its percentage ownership. As a result of its substantial ownership interest, Tontine may be able to influence all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of our directors, the adoption of amendments to our Articles of Incorporation, the approval of mergers and sales of all or substantially all of our assets, decisions affecting our capital structure and 17 other significant corporate transactions. In addition, pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement, dated April 10, 2007, Tontine currently has the right to appoint two directors to our board of directors. The interests of Tontine may not in all cases be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. The influence of Tontine may also have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. In addition, Tontine and its affiliates are in the business of investing in companies and may, from time to time, invest in companies that compete directly or indirectly with us. Tontine and its affiliates may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Certain provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws may delay, defer or prevent a change in control that our shareholders each might consider to be in their best interest. Our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making them unacceptably expensive to the raider, and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. On March 21, 2006, our board adopted a Rights Agreement with National City Bank as our rights agent (the “Rights Agreement”). The Rights Agreement permits under certain circumstances each holder of common stock, other than potential acquirers, to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of a newly created series of our preferred stock at a purchase price of $30 or to acquire additional shares of our common stock at 50% of the current market price. The rights are not exercisable or transferable until a person or group acquires 20% or more of our outstanding common stock, except with respect to Tontine and its affiliates and associates, who are exempt from the provisions of the Rights Agreement pursuant to an amendment signed on March 12, 2008. Insurance Coverages and Terms and Conditions. We negotiate our insurance contracts annually for property, casualty, workers compensation, general liability, health insurance, and directors and officers liability coverage. Due to conditions within these insurance markets and other factors beyond our control, future coverage limits, terms and conditions and the amount of the related premiums could have a negative impact on our operating results. While we continually measure the risk/reward of policy limits and coverage, the lack of coverage in certain circumstances could result in potential uninsured losses. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 