Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this report, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties, many of which are not within our control, include but are not limited to: o general economic, inflation, national security, weather and business conditions; o the availability of suitable restaurant sites in appropriate regional shopping malls and other locations on reasonable rental terms; o changes in consumer tastes; o changes in population and traffic patterns, including the effects that military action and terrorism or other events may have on the willingness of consumers to frequent malls, airports or downtown areas which are the predominant areas in which our restaurants are located; o our ability to continue to attract franchisees; o the success of our present, and any future, joint ventures and other expansion opportunities; o the availability of food (particularly cheese and tomatoes), beverage and paper products at reasonable prices; o our ability to pass along cost increases to our customers; o increases in the Federal minimum wage; o the continuity of service of members of our senior management team; o our ability to attract and retain competent restaurant and executive managerial personnel; o competition; o the level of, and our ability to comply with, government regulations; o our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make interest payments and principal under our senior notes and line of credit; o our ability to comply with covenants contained in the indenture under which the senior notes are issued, and the effects which the restrictions imposed by those covenants may have on our ability to operate our business; and o our ability to repurchase our senior notes to the extent required in the event we make certain asset sales or experience a change of control. - 2 - You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date of the report. We do not undertake any responsibility to release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements to take into account events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report. Additionally, we do not undertake any responsibility to update you on the occurrence of any unanticipated events which may cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. PART I ------ ITEM 1. BUSINESS - ------- -------- Sbarro, Inc., a New York corporation, was organized in 1977 and is the successor to a number of family food and restaurant businesses developed and operated by the Sbarro family. Today, we are a leading owner, operator and franchisor of quick-service restaurants, serving a wide variety of Italian specialty foods with 494 company-owned and 458 franchised restaurants worldwide at January 1, 2006. In addition, since 1995, we have created, through subsidiaries and joint ventures, other restaurant concepts for the purpose of developing growth opportunities in addition to the Sbarro restaurants. We presently operate 25 other concept restaurants through owned subsidiaries and joint ventures. We have defined two reportable segments, our company owned restaurant operations (including joint ventures) and our franchised operations. SEASONALITY - ----------- Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, and the effects of weather, national security, economic and business conditions. Revenues have been highest in our fourth quarter due primarily to increased volume in shopping malls during the holiday shopping season. Our annual revenues and earnings can fluctuate due to the length of the holiday shopping period between Thanksgiving and New Year's Day and the number of weeks in our fourth quarter. In recent years, our fourth quarter income has also fluctuated significantly due to a number of other factors, including the status of the economy and significant year end adjustments relating to asset impairment and store closing costs. GOING PRIVATE TRANSACTION - ------------------------- On September 28, 1999, members of the Sbarro family (who prior thereto owned approximately 34.4% of our common stock) became the holders of 100% of our issued and outstanding common stock as a result of a merger in which a company owned by them merged with and into us. The cost of the merger, including fees and expenses, was funded through the use of substantially all of our cash then on hand and the placement of $255 million of 11% senior notes due September 15, 2009 sold at a price of 98.514% of par to yield 11.25% per annum. In April 2000, we exchanged these senior notes for new senior notes having the same terms, except that the new senior notes were registered under the Securities Act of 1933. Throughout this report we are referring to the new senior notes as the "senior notes." The old senior notes and the new senior notes were issued under an indenture dated September 28, 1999, which, throughout this report, we are referring to as the "indenture." Our payment obligations under the senior notes are jointly, severally, unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by all of our current restricted subsidiaries (as defined in the indenture) and are to be similarly guaranteed by our future restricted subsidiaries. - 3 - GENERAL ------- We are a leading owner, operator and franchisor of quick service restaurants, serving a wide variety of Italian specialty foods. Under the "Sbarro," "Sbarro The Italian Eatery," "Cafe Sbarro," "Umberto's," "Mama Sbarro" and "Carmela's Pizzeria" names, we developed one of the first quick-service concepts that extended beyond offering one primary specialty item, such as pizza or hamburgers. Our diverse menu offering includes pizza, pasta and other hot and cold Italian entrees, salads, sandwiches, cheesecake and other desserts and beverages. All of our entrees are prepared fresh daily in each restaurant using special recipes developed by us. We focus on serving our customers generous portions of high quality Italian food at attractive prices. We believe that the Sbarro concept is unlike other quick-service Italian restaurants due to its diverse menu selection and its fast, cafeteria-style service. Since our inception in 1959, we have focused on high customer traffic venues due to the large number of captive customers who base their eating decision primarily on impulse and convenience. We therefore do not have to incur the significant advertising and promotional expenditures that certain of our competitors incur to attract customers to their destination restaurants. These factors, combined with adherence to strict cost controls, provide us with reasonable operating margin percentages. Sbarro restaurants are primarily located in shopping malls, downtown locations and other high customer traffic venues, including toll roads, airports, sports arenas, hospitals, convention centers, university campuses and casinos. We believe that there may be opportunities to open similar Sbarro units in these and other venues. As of January 1, 2006, we had 952 Sbarro quick service restaurants, consisting of 494 company-owned restaurants and 458 franchised restaurants located in 46 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, certain United States territories and 29 other countries throughout the world. In addition, since 1995, we have created and operated other casual and fine dining concepts for the purpose of developing growth opportunities in addition to our Sbarro restaurants. With our joint venture partners or in wholly owned subsidiaries, we currently operate 25 casual and fine dining restaurants featuring varying cuisines under other restaurant concepts. We operate in two segments, our company owned restaurant operations (including joint ventures) and our franchised operations. - 4 - RESTAURANT EXPANSION -------------------- The following table summarizes the number of Sbarro owned, franchised and other concept restaurants in operation during each of the years from 2001 through 2005: 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- Company owned Sbarro restaurants: Open at beginning of period 511 533 563 607 641 Opened during the period 5 2 4 13 9 Sold to franchisees during period (1) (3) (12) (6) - Closed during period (21) (21) (22) (51) (43) ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- Open at end of period 494 511 533 563 607 Franchised Sbarro restaurants: (1) Open at beginning of period (2) 428 376 361 334 315 Opened during the period 48 63 41 43 42 Acquired from Sbarro during period 1 3 12 6 - Closed or terminated during period (19) (14) (38) (22) (23) ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- Open at end of period 458 428 376 361 334 Other concepts: Open at beginning of period 22 27 27 31 27 Opened during period 4 - 3 2 4 Closed during period (1) (5) (3) (6) - --- --- --- --- Open at end of period 25 22 27 27 31 All restaurants: Open at beginning of period 961 936 951 972 983 Opened during the period 57 65 48 58 55 Closed or terminated during period (41) (40) (63) (79) (66) ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- Open at end of period of 977 961 936 951 972 === === === === === - ------------------ (1) Includes all locations including restaurants, kiosks and vending units. (2) Restated to account for units excluded in prior years - 5 - QUICK SERVICE RESTAURANTS - ------------------------- Our Quick Service Restaurants ("QSR"), which operate under the names "Sbarro," "Sbarro The Italian Eatery," "Cafe Sbarro," "Umberto's," "Mama Sbarro" and "Carmela's Pizzeria", are family oriented restaurants offering cafeteria and buffet style quick service designed to minimize customer waiting time and facilitate table turnover. The decor of a QSR restaurant incorporates a contemporary motif that blends with the characteristics of the surrounding area. As of January 1, 2006, there were 88 company owned "in-line" QSR restaurants and 406 company owned "food court" QSR restaurants. In addition, franchisees operated 458 QSR restaurants. "In-line" restaurants, which are self-contained restaurants, usually occupy between 1,500 and 3,000 square feet, seat approximately 60 to 120 people and employ 10 to 40 persons, including part-time personnel. "Food court" restaurants are primarily located in areas of shopping malls designated exclusively for restaurant use and share a common dining area provided by the mall. These restaurants generally occupy between 500 and 1,000 square feet, contain only kitchen and service areas, have a more limited menu and employ 6 to 30 persons, including part-time personnel. QSR restaurants are generally open seven days a week serving lunch, dinner and, in a limited number of locations, breakfast, with hours conforming to those of the major department stores or other large retailers in the mall or trade area in which they are located. Typically, mall restaurants are open to serve customers 10 to 12 hours a day, except on Sunday, when mall hours may be more limited. For company owned QSR restaurants open a full year, average annual sales in 2005 were approximately $919,000 for an "in-line" restaurant and $587,000 for a "food court" restaurant. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, and the effects of weather, economic conditions, inflation, national security and business conditions. Sales have been highest in our fourth quarter due primarily to increased volume in shopping malls during the holiday shopping season but fluctuate due to the length of the holiday shopping period between Thanksgiving and New Year's Day, the number of weeks in our fourth quarter and weather conditions. Sbarro restaurants feature a menu of popular Italian food, including pizza with a variety of toppings, a selection of pasta dishes and other hot and cold Italian entrees, salads, sandwiches, cheesecake and other desserts. A limited number of restaurants serve breakfast. In addition to soft drinks, a limited number of the restaurants serve beer and wine. All of our entrees are prepared fresh daily in each restaurant according to special recipes developed by us. We place emphasis on serving generous portions of quality Italian food at attractive prices. Entree selections, excluding pizza, generally range in price from $5.49 to $7.99. We believe that pizza, which is sold predominantly by the slice, accounts for approximately 60% of QSR restaurant sales. Substantially all of the food ingredients, beverages and related restaurant supplies used by our QSR restaurants are purchased from a national independent wholesale food distributor which is required to adhere to established product specifications for all food products sold to our restaurants. Breads, pastries, produce, fresh dairy and certain meat products are purchased locally for each restaurant. Soft drink mixes are purchased from major beverage producers under national contracts and distributed by our national independent distributor. Our current contractual arrangement, which expires in January 2008, requires us to purchase 95% of all of our food ingredients that are not purchased locally and related restaurant supplies through the distributor. The majority of the products used in our restaurants are proprietary and we are involved in negotiating their cost to the - 6 - wholesaler. We believe that there are other distributors who would be able to service our needs and that satisfactory alternative sources of supply are generally available for all items regularly used in our QSR restaurants. RESTAURANT MANAGEMENT - --------------------- Our QSR restaurants are managed by one general manager and one or two co-managers or assistant managers, depending upon the size of the location. Managers are required to participate in Sbarro training sessions in restaurant management and operations prior to the assumption of their duties. In addition, each manager is required to comply with an extensive operations manual containing procedures for assuring uniformity of operations and consistent high quality of products. We have a restaurant management bonus program that provides the management teams of company owned QSR restaurants with the opportunity to receive cash bonuses based on certain performance-related criteria of their location. We employ 32 Directors of Operations, each of whom is typically responsible for the operations of 14 to 18 company owned QSR restaurants. Directors of Operations recruit and supervise the managerial staff of all company owned QSR restaurants and report to one of the five Vice Presidents of Operations. The Vice Presidents of Operations coordinate the activities of the Directors of Operations and report to our President and Chief Executive Officer. FRANCHISE DEVELOPMENT - --------------------- Growth in franchise operations occurs through the opening of new QSR restaurants by new and existing franchisees. We rely principally upon our reputation, the strength of our existing restaurants, and participation in national franchise conventions to attract new franchisees. As of January 1, 2006, we had 458 franchised Sbarro restaurants operated by 80 franchisees in 38 states of the United States as well as its territories and in 29 other countries throughout the world. We are presently considering additional franchise opportunities worldwide. In certain instances, we have established franchise locations under territorial agreements in which we have granted, for specified time periods, exclusive rights to enter into franchise agreements with us for restaurant units in certain geographic areas in foreign countries. In order to obtain a franchise, we generally require payment of an initial fee and continuing royalties at rates of 4% to 7% of gross revenues. We require the franchise agreements to end at the same time as the underlying lease, generally ten years, including a renewal period of the underlying lease, if applicable. Since 1990, the renewal option has also been subject to conditions, including a remodel or image enhancement requirements The franchise and territorial agreements provide us with the right to terminate a franchisee for a variety of reasons, including insolvency or bankruptcy, failure to meet development schedules in cases of territorial rights, failure to operate its restaurant according to Sbarro standards, understatement of gross receipts, failure to pay fees, or material misrepresentation on a franchise application. As of January 1, 2006, we employed 11 management level employees who are responsible for overseeing the operations of franchise units and for developing new units. - 7 - OTHER CONCEPTS - -------------- Since 1995, we have developed and established new restaurant concepts to provide growth opportunities that leverage our restaurant management and financial expertise. These concepts are operated either by us alone or through joint ventures with restauranteurs experienced in the particular food area. We participate with our partners in overseeing the operations of each venture. Our joint ventures and other wholly-owned concepts presently operate 25 restaurants. The following is a summary of our other concepts: O In early 2005, we opened a 100% owned casual dining restaurant serving Italian food under the name Carmela's of Brooklyn in Orlando, Florida. The restaurant provides both take out and table service, and generally caters to families. In connection with this concept, we entered into a joint venture development Agreement for the Orlando market. The joint venture partner will be required to contribute one half of the estimated development cost and will share in one half of the profits, as defined, of each location in which it decides to participate. We plan to open three additional restaurants in 2006 under this joint venture agreement. O We operate six casual dining restaurants serving Italian food principally under the name Mama Sbarro in New York. The restaurants provide both take-out and table service, and generally caters to families. We did not open any Mama Sbarro locations in 2005 nor do we plan to open any in 2006. We sold one location in March of 2006. O We have a 40% interest in a joint venture that presently operates ten casual dining restaurants, including one opened in January 2005, with a Rocky Mountain steakhouse motif under the name Boulder Creek Steaks & Saloon. This joint venture also operates five fine dining steak restaurants, two of which are operated under the name Rothmann's Steak House and the remaining three operate under the names respective Burton & Doyle, Sagamore and Blackstone. O We have a 50% interest in a joint venture which operates two quick service Mexican style restaurants in strip centers under the name Baja Grill. In January 2005, we sold, to a related party, our 70% interest in a joint venture that, operated one moderately priced, table service restaurant featuring an Italian Mediterranean menu under the name "Salute" in New York City. (See Item 13 "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.") All of our other concept locations presently operate through unrestricted subsidiaries which do not guarantee our senior notes. As such, we have certain restrictions as to the financing we can provide to these new concepts and these entities are not subject to the restrictions contained in the indenture under which our senior notes are issued. All concepts which are greater than 50% owned or where we are considered the primary beneficiary are consolidated in our financial statements. Ventures which are less than 50% owned and those owned at 50% for which we do not have operating control and where we are not considered the primary beneficiary are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. - 8 - As of January 1, 2006, we had an aggregate investment, net of write-downs, in these ventures of approximately $4.2 million and note receivable of $.6 million. The amount of our investment does not include our share of guarantees of indebtedness and reimbursement obligations with respect to letters of credit in the aggregate amount of approximately $7.8 million. EMPLOYEES - --------- As of January 1, 2006, we employed approximately 5,500 persons, excluding employees of our other concepts, of whom approximately 3,900 were full-time field and restaurant personnel, approximately 1,500 were part-time restaurant personnel and 133 were corporate administrative personnel. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe our employee relations are satisfactory. COMPETITION - ----------- The restaurant business is highly competitive. Many of our direct competitors operate within the pizza restaurant segment. We compete in each market in which we operate with locally-owned restaurants, as well as with national and regional restaurant chains. We believe we compete on the basis of menu selection, price, service, location and food quality. Factors that affect our business operations include changes in consumer tastes, inflation, national, regional and local economic conditions, population, traffic patterns, changes in discretionary spending priorities, demographic trends, national security, military action, terrorism, consumer confidence in food wholesomeness, handling and safety, weather conditions, the type, number and location of competing restaurants and other factors. There is also active competition for management personnel and attractive commercial shopping mall, city centers and other locations suitable for restaurants. Increased food, beverage, labor, occupancy and other costs could also adversely affect us. Although we believe we are well positioned to compete in the quick-service Italian specialty food business because of our leading market position, focus, expertise and strong national brand name recognition, increased competition from existing or new companies and loss of market share, could have an adverse effect on our operations. TRADEMARKS - ---------- Our Sbarro restaurants operate principally under the name "Sbarro," "Sbarro The Italian Eatery", "Sbarro Fresh Italian Cooking," "Cafe Sbarro," and "Umberto's" .. Sbarro, Sbarro The Italian Eatery, Cafe Sbarro, La Cucina and Tony and Bruno's are registered trademarks of the company. Our other concept locations operate under separate registered trademarks, including "Mama Sbarro." In addition, we have trademarked the font and style of "Carmela's Pizzeria." The trademarks are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office with no expiration date but must be renewed every ten years. Such registered service marks may continually be renewed for 10-year periods. We have also registered or filed applications to register "Sbarro" and "Sbarro The Italian Eatery" in several other countries. We believe that these marks continue to be materially important to our business. The joint ventures to which we are a party have also applied for United States trademarks covering trade names used by them. GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION - ----------------------- We are subject to various federal, state and local laws affecting our businesses, as are our franchisees. Each of our restaurants and those owned by our franchisees and joint ventures are - 9 - subject to a variety of licensing and governmental regulatory provisions relating to wholesomeness of food, sanitation, building, health, safety and, in certain cases, licensing of the sale of alcoholic beverages. Difficulties in obtaining, or the failure to obtain, required licenses or approvals can delay or prevent the opening of a new restaurant in any particular area. Our operations and those of our franchisees and joint ventures are also subject to federal laws, such as minimum wage laws, the Fair Labor Standards Act and the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. They are also subject to state laws governing such matters as wages, working conditions, employment of minors, citizenship requirements and overtime. Some states have set minimum wage requirements higher than the federal level. We are also subject to Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") regulations and various state laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises. The FTC and various state laws require us to furnish to prospective franchisees a franchise offering circular containing prescribed information. We are currently registered to offer and sell franchises, or are exempt from registering, in all states in which we operate franchised restaurants that have registration requirements. The states in which we are registered, and a number of states in which we may franchise, require registration of a franchise offering circular or a filing with state authorities. Substantive state laws that regulate the franchisor-franchisee relationship presently exist in a substantial number of states, and bills have been introduced in Congress from time to time which provide for federal regulation of the franchisor-franchisee relationship in certain respects. The state laws often limit, among other things, the duration and scope of non-competition provisions and the ability of a franchisor to terminate or refuse to renew a franchise. Although alcoholic beverage sales are not emphasized in our Sbarro QSR restaurants. Our other concepts serve alcoholic beverages and some of our larger restaurants serve beer and wine. Sales of beer and wine have historically contributed less than 1% of total revenues of QSR restaurants. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with the laws to which we are subject. AVAILABLE INFORMATION: - ---------------------- We are not required to file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") as a result of our going private transaction, we voluntarily file with the SEC current reports in Form 8-K, Quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, annual reports on Form 10-K, and amendments to these reports in order to fulfill our obligations under the indenture. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 Fifth St., NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site, with an address of http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information, including our electronic filings with the SEC. The address of our Internet site is http://www.sbarro.com. Our Internet site does not include reports we file with the SEC, because our only traded security is our senior notes which are not actively traded. However, we will provide to those who request them, as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file them with the SEC, free of charge, a reasonable number of copies of our periodic reports filed with the SEC, upon written request to our Chief Financial Officer at our corporate headquarters, 401 Broadhollow Road, Melville, New York 11747-4714. - 10 - ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - -------- ------------ An investment in our senior notes involves a number of risks. Our business and future operating results may be affected by many risks, uncertainties and other factors, including those set forth below. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations cash flows and prospects could be materially and adversely affected, the price of our senior notes could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks, uncertainties and other factors described in this report are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks, uncertainties and other factors that we do not currently consider material or that are not presently known to us. RISKS RELATING TO OUR SENIOR NOTES WE LIKELY WILL BE REQUIRED TO REFINANCE A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR SENIOR NOTES WHEN THEY MATURE IN 2009. As of January 1, 2006, we had outstanding $255 million 11% senior notes due September 15, 2009. The indenture does not require us to make, except in certain circumstances, principal payments until September 2009, when the entire outstanding principal balance is due. It is unlikely that our existing cash and future cash flows to be generated from operations will be sufficient to enable us to repay in full our senior notes at maturity. The amount that will be available to repay our obligations, including the senior notes, not only will depend upon our ability to manage our business, but also upon other factors, such as general economic and financial conditions in the restaurant industry and the economy at large, as well as other conditions beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows to repay our senior notes and other obligations in full when due, we will have to pursue one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, raising equity capital or pursuing a refinancing of our debt. We cannot assure you that any of these alternatives could be accomplished on satisfactory terms or that they will yield sufficient funds to retire the senior notes and our other debt. THE INDENTURE IMPOSES RESTRICTIONS ON OUR ABILITY TO OPERATE OUR BUSINESS. The indenture contains covenants that restrict our ability to take various actions, including, with certain exceptions, incurring additional debt and making investments. At present: o Except under specifically permitted arrangements, such as up to $75 million of revolving credit loans, we are not able to borrow funds; and o Except for a limited amount of investments, we are not able to invest in or acquire businesses. - 11 - These restrictions may prevent us from taking advantage of business and financing opportunities that may arise. In addition, a breach of any of these provisions could result in a default under the indenture which would allow the holders of the senior notes issued under the indenture to declare them immediately due and payable. INDEPENDENT OF THE RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS IN THE INDENTURE, OUR SUBSTANTIAL DEBT MAY RESTRICT OUR ACTIVITIES. The existence of our debt could: o limit our ability to obtain financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes; o increase our vulnerability to downturns in our business or the economy generally; o limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures from our less leveraged competitors; o hinder our ability to plan for changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; o require us to manage our business in a manner so that we remain in compliance with the debt instrument's financial and other covenants; and o have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with the covenants in the indenture, or our subsidiary's mortgage loan, because a failure could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in both becoming immediately due and payable. A DEFAULT UNDER OUR SUBSIDIARY'S MORTGAGE LOAN COULD ALSO RESULT IN A DEFAULT UNDER THE INDENTURE. One of our subsidiaries obtained a $16 million, 8.4% loan due in 2010, secured by a mortgage on our corporate headquarters building. The outstanding principal balance of the loan as of January 1, 2006 was $15.1 million. The mortgage agreement contains various covenants, including certain financial maintenance covenants. At January 1, 2006, our subsidiary was in compliance with the covenants contained in its mortgage agreement. However, should that subsidiary default under the mortgage agreement in a manner that results in the acceleration of that indebtedness, it would also result in a default under the indenture which would allow all amounts outstanding under the indenture, as well as the mortgage loan, to be declared immediately due and payable. - 12 - THE CLAIMS OF HOLDERS OF ANY SECURED DEBT WILL HAVE EFFECTIVE PRIORITY OVER THE CLAIMS OF HOLDERS OF OUR SENIOR NOTES, WHICH COULD IMPAIR THE CLAIM OF THE HOLDERS OF SENIOR NOTES TO OUR ASSETS IF WE WERE TO BECOME INSOLVENT OR ARE LIQUIDATED. The senior notes rank pari passu in right of payment with all of our present and future senior debt and rank senior in right of payment to all of our present and future debt that is expressly subordinated to the notes. The senior notes are not secured by any of our assets or any of the assets of our subsidiaries that have guaranteed payment of the senior notes. Currently, neither we nor any of our subsidiaries that have guaranteed payment of the senior notes have any material indebtedness that is secured by any of our or their respective assets, other than the $15.1 million mortgage loan of the guarantor subsidiary which is secured by the building in which our corporate headquarters is located. If we or our subsidiaries that have guaranteed payment of the senior notes become insolvent at a time when they have secured debt, the secured lenders will have a claim on the assets securing that indebtedness that will have priority over any claim holders of our senior notes may have for payment under the senior notes or the guarantees. Accordingly, it is possible the assets remaining from which claims of the holders of the senior notes could be satisfied would be less than they are today. THE SBARRO FAMILY CONTROLS US AND THEIR INTERESTS MAY BE DIFFERENT FROM THE INTERESTS OF THE HOLDERS OF THE SENIOR NOTES. The Sbarro family owns 100% of our stock and have the power to designate all of our directors and exercise control over our business, policies and affairs. The interests of those shareholders may differ from the interests of the holders of our senior notes WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO REPURCHASE OUR SENIOR NOTES UPON A CHANGE OF CONTROL, EVEN THOUGH WE ARE REQUIRED TO DO SO. If a change of control occurs, we must offer to repurchase all outstanding senior notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and liquidated damages, if any, to the purchase date. Certain transfers of more than 35% of our common stock by our shareholders, including transfers to third parties to provide cash needed to pay estate taxes upon the death of those persons or their transferees, could trigger the change of control provisions under the indenture. In order to pay estate taxes, the estate of a shareholder could seek to sell the estate's stock to us or to a third party. However, the repurchase of those shares by us would be subject to limitations under the indenture which currently prohibit such repurchases, and the sale of those shares to a third party could trigger the change of control provisions under the indenture. If a change of control were to occur and a significant amount of our senior notes are tendered, we would probably require third party financing, but we cannot be sure that we would be able to obtain third party financing on acceptable terms, if at all. Furthermore, we are presently prohibited from borrowing under the indenture. - 13 - THERE IS A LIMITED PUBLIC MARKET FOR THE SENIOR NOTES. We have not listed, and do not intend to list, our senior notes on any national securities exchange or to seek their admission to trading on NASDAQ. Quotations for the senior notes are not available in a newspaper or otherwise readily available. There are currently only a limited number of market makers for our senior notes. Any market-making may be discontinued at any time. Further, the liquidity of, and trading market for, the senior notes may be adversely affected by declines and volatility in the market for high yield securities generally, as well as changes in our financial performance or prospects. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS THE SUCCESS OF OUR BUSINESS IS DEPENDENT ON A NUMBER OF FACTORS THAT ARE NOT WITHIN OUR CONTROL. The success of our franchisees' and our new restaurant concept business operations is, and will continue to be, subject to a number of factors that are not within our control, including: o changes in consumer tastes; o national, regional and local economic conditions; o traffic patterns; o discretionary spending priorities; o demographic trends; o consumer confidence in food wholesomeness, handling and safety; o consumer confidence in the security of shopping malls, airports, sports arenas, hospitals, convention centers, casinos and other venues in which we and our franchisees operate; o weather conditions; and o the type, number and location of competing restaurants. THE SUCCESS OF OUR GROWTH STRATEGY WILL DEPEND, IN PART, UPON OUR ABILITY TO EXPAND OUR FRANCHISE OPERATIONS. The success of our franchise operations is dependent upon our ability to: o Locate and attract new franchisees and area developers; o Maintain and enhance the "Sbarro" brand; - 14 - o Maintain satisfactory relations with our franchisees who may, in certain instances, have interests adverse to our interests; o Monitor and audit the reports and payments received from franchisees; and o Comply with applicable franchising laws, rules and regulations, as well as applicable laws in the foreign countries in which we seek, and have, franchisee and area development arrangements. With respect to foreign franchisees, we are also at risk with respect to: o Restrictions that may be imposed upon the transfer of funds from those countries; o The political and economic stability of the country; and o The country's relationship with the United States. OUR GROWTH STRATEGY ALSO REQUIRES US TO EXTEND THE SBARRO CONCEPT INTO OTHER QUICK SERVICE VENUES AND DEVELOP NEW RESTAURANT CONCEPTS. Traditionally, Sbarro has operated in the quick service market featuring pizza, pasta and other hot and cold Italian entries, principally in shopping malls. As the development of new shopping malls in the United States has slowed, the growth of our quick service business has been in other high pedestrian traffic venues, such as airports, travel plazas, train stations, sports arenas, hospitals, convention centers, university campuses and casinos To increase our growth, in addition to further expanding our franchise operations, we have been seeking to expand our business into new settings, such as strip shopping centers, casinos, airports and military bases. In addition, we are developing new casual dining eat-in and take-out restaurants, featuring Italian foods similar to those with which we have extensive experience. We also have developed, casual dining, principally with joint venture partners experienced in other food cuisines. Further, we have recently introduced "Sbarro" pasta sauces which we intend to sell, both in company-owned and franchisee quick service restaurants and to wholesale clubs and supermarkets. Our expansion requires us to: o make significant capital investments; o devote significant management time and effort; o develop and operate these concepts; o properly judge consumer preferences when determining whether to develop a concept; o create menu products acceptable to potential customers; o develop budgets for, and monitor, food, beverage, labor, occupancy and other costs at levels that will produce profitable operations; and o budget and monitor the cost of construction of the restaurant. - 15 - Further, due to the current limitations under the indenture on the amount of investment we may make in unrestricted subsidiaries, such as the joint ventures, at times, we may have to restrict certain of our growth efforts. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully expand our existing quick service operations or develop any new concepts on a profitable basis. WE OPERATE IN A HIGHLY COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT AGAINST STRONG COMPETITION. The restaurant business is highly competitive. We believe that we compete on the basis of price, service, location and food quality. There is also active competition for management personnel and attractive commercial shopping mall, center city and other locations suitable for restaurants. We compete in each market in which we operate with locally-owned restaurants, as well as with national and regional restaurant chains. Although we believe we are well positioned to compete because of our leading market position, focus and expertise in the quick-service Italian specialty food business and strong national brand name recognition, we could experience increased competition from existing or new companies and lose market share that, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and ability to service our debt obligations. THE AVAILABILITY, QUALITY AND COST OF OUR INGREDIENTS FLUCTUATES, WHICH AFFECTS OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. Significant increases in food and paper product costs, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers, could affect our financial results. Many of the factors in determining food and paper product prices, such as increases in the prices of the ingredients we use to prepare our foods, especially cheese, and inflation are beyond our control. Furthermore, adverse weather and other conditions can cause shortages and interruptions in, and also could adversely effect the availability, quality and cost of, the ingredients we use to prepare our foods. These events could adversely affect our financial results because we need to provide our customers with fresh products. INCREASES IN LABOR AND OCCUPANCY COSTS COULD EFFECT OUR PROFITABILITY. We have a substantial number of hourly employees whose wages are based on the federal or state minimum wage. Any increases in the federal or state minimum wage, as well as strong labor markets, can result in upward pressures on the wages and salaries we pay and could increase our labor costs. In addition, we have been experiencing higher occupancy related costs with respect to leases for new restaurants and renewal leases for existing restaurant space. Increases in our labor and occupancy costs would decrease our profitability if we are unable to recover these increases by increasing the prices we charge our customers or if we are unable to attract new customers. - 16 - WE ARE DEPENDENT ON OBTAINING AND RETAINING ATTRACTIVE HIGH CUSTOMER TRAFFIC LOCATIONS. We are dependent on our ability to enter into new leases and renew existing leases on favorable terms. We find it more expensive to enter into such leases during periods when market rents are, as they have been, increasing. There is also active competition for attractive commercial shopping mall, center city and other locations suitable for restaurants. As a result, as existing leases expire, we have not renewed some leases and have found it more expensive to continue to operate other existing locations. WE RELY ON ONE NATIONAL INDEPENDENT WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTOR AND REPLACING IT COULD DISRUPT THE FLOW OF OUR FOOD PRODUCTS AND SUPPLIES. We use one national independent wholesale food distributor, to purchase and deliver most of the food ingredients used to prepare the foods we serve, other than breads, pastries, produce, fresh dairy and certain meat products which are purchased locally for each restaurant. The distributor also purchases and delivers to us, on a national basis, restaurant supplies and certain other items that we use. The majority of the products used in our restaurants are proprietary and we are involved in negotiating their cost to the wholesaler. The agreement expires in January 2008. While we are dependent upon this one national independent distributor, we believe that there are other distributors who would be able to service our needs. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to replace our distributor with others on comparable terms or without disruptions to the flow of our food products and other supplies to our systems. OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws affecting our business, as are our franchisees. Each of our restaurants and those owned by our franchisees are subject to a variety of licensing and governmental regulatory provisions relating to wholesomeness of food, sanitation, health, safety and, in certain cases, licensing of the sale of alcoholic beverages. Difficulties in obtaining, or the failure to obtain, required licenses or approvals can delay or prevent the opening of a new restaurant in any particular area. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will remain in compliance with applicable laws or licenses that we have or will obtain, the failure of which by a restaurant could result in our loss of the restaurant's license and even the closing of the restaurant. Regulations of the Federal Trade Commission (the "FTC") and various state laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises require us to furnish to prospective franchisees a franchise offering circular containing prescribed information. We are currently registered to offer and sell franchises in nine states and are currently exempt from the franchise registration requirements in nine states based upon "large franchisor" exemptions. The states in which we are registered, and a number of states in which we may franchise, require registration of a franchise offering circular or a filing with state authorities. State franchise examiners have discretion to disapprove franchise registration applications based on a number of factors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to comply with these regulations. WE DEPEND ON OUR SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND OTHER KEY EMPLOYEES. Our success is dependent upon our senior management team. Since September 2003, we have added a significant number of independent executives to our management team. Our continued success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain key employees. As a privately-held company, we may - 17 - be unable to offer key executives liquid stock-based compensation of the type that our publicly-held competitors can offer. We do not have employment agreements with any key employee other than Peter Beaudrault, our President and Chief Executive Officer. There is no assurance that we will be able to retain our existing senior management or attract other key employees. OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FLUCTUATE DUE TO THE SEASONALITY OF OUR BUSINESS. Our revenues and earnings are highest in our fourth fiscal quarter primarily due to increased volume in shopping malls during the holiday shopping season. As a result, our annual revenues and earnings are substantially dependent upon the amount of traffic in shopping malls during the holiday shopping period. Changes in the level of traffic in shopping malls during this period have a disproportionate effect on our annual results of operations. A weak holiday shopping season, which could be caused by, among other factors, a downturn in the economy, as expansion of on-line shopping or adverse weather conditions, could adversely affect our profitability. WE MAY, IN THE FUTURE, INCUR GOODWILL, TRADEMARK AND OTHER ASSET IMPAIRMENT CHARGES. At January 1, 2006, the carrying values of our trademarks and goodwill were $195.9 million and $9.2 million, respectively. There have been no reductions in the carrying values of those assets since their creation. We test, based on our estimates about the future cash flows from those assets, for impairment of these assets annually or earlier if impairment indicators exist. We also test for impairment of our long-lived assets. While we believe our estimates and judgments about future cash flows are reasonable, future impairment charges may be required if the expected cash flow estimates, as projected, do not occur or if events change requiring us to revise our estimates, and result in non-cash charges to our earnings in the period in which we make the adjustment. IF WE ELECT TO IMPLEMENT INTERNAL CONTROL PROCEDURES NECESSARY TO COMPLY WITH THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002, WE WOULD INCUR SIGNIFICANT COSTS WITHOUT ASSURANCE THAT THE PROCEDURES AND CONTROLS WE IMPLEMENT WILL BE EFFECTIVE. In order to comply with a covenant in the indenture, we are a voluntary filer of periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As such, we are not required to implement the internal control over financial reporting procedures required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. However, we have begun to implement the processes and procedures that would be necessary to enable our management to furnish an internal control report to our registered public accounting firm, which would then be required to attest to, and report on, our management's assessment. It is our present intention to complete development of these processes and procedures before the end of our 2007 fiscal year when non-accelerated filers of periodic reports with the SEC are presently required to have them in place. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete the work necessary for our management to evaluate our controls and prepare its management report in a timely manner, that our management will be able to report that our internal control over financial reporting is effective or that our registered public accounting firm will be able to attest to our report. If we elect not to proceed with this project, or if we are not able to develop effective controls, our ability to refinance the senior notes could be adversely affected. In addition, we estimate that, over the next two years, we will incur significant expenses to implement these procedures and controls, which will directly impact our results of operations. - 18 - ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS - -------- ------------------------- None 