ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS • Competition – The Company operates in a highly competitive business environment and its sales could be negatively impacted by its inability to maintain or increase prices, changes in geographic or product mix, or the decision of its customers to purchase competitive products instead of the Company’s products. Sales could also be affected by pricing, purchasing, financing, operational, advertising, or promotional decisions made by purchasers of the Company’s products. • Seasonality and Cyclical Economic Conditions in the Markets the Company Serves – The primary markets to which the Company sells include the Manufactured Housing and Recreational Vehicle Industries, which are cyclical and dependent on various factors including interest rates, access to financing, inventory and production levels, and other economic and demographic factors. The Company’s sales levels and operating results could be negatively impacted by changes in any of these items. • Cost and Availability of Raw Materials – Prices of certain materials including gypsum, lauan, particleboard, MDF, aluminum, and other products can be volatile and change dramatically with changes in supply and demand. Certain products are purchased from overseas and are dependent upon vessel shipping 10 schedules and port availability. Further, certain of the Company’s commodity product suppliers are operating at or near capacity resulting in some products having the potential of being put on allocation. The Company’s sales levels and operating results could be negatively impacted by changes in any of these items. • Insurance Coverages and Terms and Conditions – The Company negotiates its insurance contracts annually for property, casualty, workers compensation, general liability, health insurance, and Directors and Officers Liability coverage. Due to conditions within these insurance markets and other factors beyond the Company’s control, future coverage limits, terms and conditions and the amount of the related premiums could have a negative impact on the Company’s operating results. While the Company continually measures the risk/reward of policy limits and coverage, the lack of coverage due to circumstances beyond the Company’s control could result in potential uninsured losses. • Executive Officers and Key Personnel – The loss of any of our executive officers or other key personnel could reduce our ability to manage our business and strategic plan in the short term and could cause our sales and operating results to decline. • Acquisitions – As part of our business and strategic plan, we continue to look for strategic acquisitions to provide accretive shareholder value. These acquisitions require the effective integration of an existing business and its administrative, financial, marketing, sales and manufacturing, and other functions to maximize synergies. If we are unable to successfully integrate these acquisitions, we may not realize the benefits identified in our due diligence process, and our financial results may be negatively impacted. Additionally, significant unexpected liabilities may arise after completion of the acquisitions. • Inventories – The Company’s customers generally do not maintain long-term supply contracts and therefore the Company must bear the risk of advance estimation of customer orders. The Company maintains a substantial inventory to support these customers’ needs. Changes in demand, market conditions, or product specifications could result in material obsolescence and a lack of alternative markets for certain of the Company’s customer specific products and could negatively impact operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 11 