ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows can be adversely affected by various risks related to its business. These risks include, but are not limited to, the principal factors listed below and the other matters set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All of these risks should be carefully considered. Our results of operations have been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted by a worldwide macroeconomic downturn. In 2008, general worldwide economic conditions experienced a downturn due to the effects of the deterioration in the residential housing market, subprime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, increased commodity costs, volatile energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns (the “Economic Crisis”). These conditions have adversely affected demand in the three major end-markets we serve (the recreational vehicle, manufactured housing and industrial markets), resulting in decreased sales of our component products into these markets and could negatively affect our operations and result in lower sales, income, and cash flows. In addition, it has become more difficult for our customers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and ultimately our profitability has been adversely affected. If our business conditions continue to deteriorate, we may be forced to close and/or consolidate certain of our operating facilities, sell assets, and/or reduce our workforce, which may result in our incurring restructuring charges. We cannot predict the duration of the Economic Crisis, the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery or the extent to which the Economic Crisis will continue to negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The current downturn in the residential housing market has had an adverse impact on our operations, and is expected to continue throughout 2009. The residential housing market has experienced overall declines and credit concerns that are expected to continue throughout 2009. Approximately 70% of our industrial revenue is directly or indirectly influenced by conditions in the residential housing market. The decline in demand for residential housing and the tightening of consumer credit have lowered demand for our industrial products and have had an adverse impact on our operations as a whole. In addition, the impact of the sub-prime mortgage crisis and housing downturn on consumer confidence, discretionary spending, and general economic conditions has decreased and may continue to decrease demand for our products sold to the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries. We may incur significant charges or be adversely impacted by the closure of all or part of a manufacturing facility. We periodically assess the cost structure of our manufacturing facilities to manufacture and sell our products in the most efficient manner. Based on our assessments, we may make capital investments to move, discontinue manufacturing capabilities, or close all or part of a manufacturing facility. These changes could result in significant future charges or disruptions in our operations, and we may not achieve the expected benefits from these investments which could result in an adverse impact on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. The financial condition of our customers and suppliers may deteriorate as a result of the current economic environment and competitive conditions in their markets. The Economic Crisis may lead to increased levels of restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, suppliers and other service providers and financial institutions with whom we do business. Such events could, in turn, negatively affect our business either through loss of sales or inability to meet our commitments (or inability to meet them without excess expense) because of loss of suppliers or other providers. In addition, several of our major customers are undergoing unprecedented financial distress which may result in such customers undergoing major restructuring, reorganization or other significant changes. The occurrence of any such event could have further adverse consequences to our business including a decrease in demand for our products. If such customers become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover accounts receivables from that customer would be adversely affected and any payments we received in the preference period prior to a bankruptcy filing may be potentially recoverable by the bankruptcy trustee. 14 Many of our customers participate in highly competitive markets, and their financial condition may deteriorate as a result. A decline in the financial condition of our customers could hinder the Company’s ability to collect amounts owed by customers. In addition, such a decline could result in lower demand for the Company’s products and services. We have a number of large customers, the loss of any of which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. We have a number of customers which account for a significant percentage of our net sales. Specifically, two customers of the RV Segment accounted for a combined 25%, and another customer of the MH Segment accounted for 10% of consolidated net sales in 2008. The loss of any of these large customers could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. We do not have long-term agreements with customers and cannot predict that we will maintain our current relationships with these customers or that we will continue to supply them at current levels. In addition, if any of our significant customers were to encounter financial difficulties, work stoppages or seek bankruptcy protection, our business could be adversely affected. The manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries are highly competitive, and some of our competitors may have greater resources than we do. We operate in a highly competitive business environment and our sales could be negatively impacted by our inability to maintain or increase prices, changes in geographic or product mix, or the decision of our customers to purchase our competitors’ products instead of our products. We compete not only with other suppliers to the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle producers, but also with suppliers to traditional site-built homebuilders and suppliers of cabinetry and flooring. Sales could also be affected by pricing, purchasing, financing, advertising, operational, promotional, or other decisions made by purchasers of our products. Additionally, we cannot control the decisions made by suppliers of our distributed and manufactured products and therefore our ability to maintain our exclusive and non-exclusive distributor contracts and agreements may be adversely impacted. As a result of highly competitive market conditions in the industries in which we participate, some of our competitors have been forced to seek bankruptcy protection. These competitors may emerge from bankruptcy protection with stronger balance sheets and a desire to gain market share by offering their products at a lower price than our products, which would have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Seasonality and cyclical economic conditions affect the markets the Company serves. The manufactured housing and recreational vehicle markets are cyclical and dependent upon various factors, including the general level of economic activity, consumer confidence, interest rates, access to financing, inventory and production levels, and the cost of fuel. Economic and demographic factors can cause substantial fluctuations in production, which in turn impact sales and operating results. Demand for recreational vehicles and manufactured housing generally declines during the winter season. Our sales levels and operating results could be negatively impacted by changes in any of these items. The cyclical nature of the domestic housing market has caused our sales and operating results to fluctuate. These fluctuations may continue in the future, which could result in operating losses during downturns. The U.S. housing industry is highly cyclical and is influenced by many national and regional economic and demographic factors, including: • terms and availability of financing for homebuyers and retailers; • consumer confidence; • interest rates; • population and employment trends; • income levels; • housing demand; and • general economic conditions, including inflation, deflation and recessions. 15 The manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries and the industrial markets are affected by the fluctuations in the residential housing market. As a result of the foregoing factors, our sales and operating results fluctuate, and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future. Moreover, cyclical and seasonal downturns in the residential housing market may cause us to experience operating losses. Fuel shortages, or higher prices for fuel, have had, and could continue to have, an adverse impact on our operations. The products produced by the recreational vehicle industry typically require gasoline or diesel fuel for their operation, or the use of a vehicle requiring gasoline or diesel fuel for their operation. There can be no assurance that the supply of gasoline and diesel fuel will continue uninterrupted or that the price of or tax on fuel will not significantly increase in the future. Shortages of gasoline and diesel fuel have had a significant adverse effect on the demand for recreational vehicles in the past and would be expected to have a material adverse effect on demand in the future. Rapid significant increases in fuel prices, as we experienced in recent years, appear to affect the demand for recreational vehicles when gasoline prices reach unusually high levels and we believe the significant increase in fuel prices in 2007 and the first half of 2008 contributed to the decrease in demand for recreational vehicles. Such a reduction in overall demand for recreational vehicles could have a materially adverse impact on our revenues and profitability. Approximately 37% and 39% of our sales were to the recreational vehicle industry for 2008 and for 2007, respectively. Dependence on Third-Party Suppliers and Manufacturers. Generally, our raw materials, supplies and energy requirements are obtained from various sources and in the quantities desired. While alternative sources are available, our business is subject to the risk of price increases and periodic delays in the delivery. Fluctuations in the prices of these requirements may be driven by the supply/demand relationship for that commodity or governmental regulation. In addition, if any of our suppliers seek bankruptcy relief or otherwise cannot continue their business as anticipated, the availability or price of these requirements could be adversely affected. Increased cost and limited availability of raw materials may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Prices of certain materials, including gypsum, lauan, particleboard, MDF, and other commodity products, can be volatile and change dramatically with changes in supply and demand. Certain products are purchased from overseas and are dependent upon vessel shipping schedules and port availability. Further, certain of our commodity product suppliers sometimes operate at or near capacity, resulting in some products having the potential of being put on allocation. We generally have been able to maintain adequate supplies of materials and to pass higher material costs on to our customers in the form of surcharges and base price increases where needed. However, it is not certain that future price increases can be passed on to our customers without affecting demand or that limited availability of materials will not impact our production capabilities. The current credit crisis and its impact on the financial and housing markets may also impact our suppliers and affect the availability or pricing of materials. Our sales levels and operating results could be negatively impacted by changes in any of these items. The ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers and key personnel may adversely affect our operations. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key personnel could reduce our ability to manage our business and strategic plan in the short term and could cause our sales and operating results to decline. Our ability to integrate acquired businesses may adversely affect operations. As part of our business and strategic plan, we look for strategic acquisitions to provide shareholder value. In 2007, we acquired Adorn. This acquisition, and any future acquisitions, requires the effective integration of an existing business and its administrative, financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing and other functions to maximize synergies. Acquired businesses involve a number of risks that may affect our financial performance, including increased leverage, diversion of management resources, assumption of liabilities of the acquired businesses, and possible corporate culture conflicts. If we are unable to successfully integrate these acquisitions, we may not realize the benefits identified in our due diligence process, and our financial results may be negatively impacted. Additionally, significant unexpected liabilities could arise from these acquisitions. 16 Increased levels of indebtedness may harm our financial condition and results of operations. On May 18, 2007, we entered into a senior secured credit agreement (as amended on March 19, 2008, the “Credit Agreement”), providing for a senior secured credit facility (the “senior secured credit facility”). Borrowings under our senior secured credit facility were used to finance the Adorn acquisition, to provide liquidity for the working capital needs of the combined companies, and to repay borrowings under our previous credit facility. On December 11, 2008, we amended our Credit Agreement (which amendment is more fully described below) (the “Amended Credit Agreement”) and, as a result, our senior secured credit facility was comprised of a revolving line of credit (subject to a borrowing base, up to a borrowing limit of $33.0 million) and a $38.5 million term loan and expires on January 3, 2011. On April 14, 2009, the Company entered into a Third Amendment and Waiver (the “Third Amendment”) (which amendment is more fully described below) and, as a result, our senior secured credit facility is comprised of a revolving line of credit (subject to a borrowing base, up to a borrowing limit of $29.0 million) and a term loan. The principal amount outstanding under the term loan, the interest rates for borrowings under the revolving line of credit and the term loan, and the expiration date of the Credit Agreement remained unchanged under the amended terms. Our increased indebtedness as a result of the Adorn acquisition, as well as our greater need for working capital, may harm our financial condition and negatively impact our results of operations. The increase in our level of indebtedness could have consequences on our future operations, including (i) making it more difficult for us to meet our payments on other outstanding debt; (ii) an event of default, if we fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements, which could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable; (iii) reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; (iv) limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; (v) placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged; and (vi) creating concerns about our credit quality which could result in the loss of supplier contracts and/or customers. The terms of the Third Amendment to the Credit Agreement contain various financial performance and other covenants with which we must remain in compliance. If we do not remain in compliance with these covenants, our amended Credit Agreement could be terminated and the amounts outstanding thereunder could become immediately due and payable. We have a significant amount of debt outstanding that contains financial and non-financial covenants with which we must comply that place restrictions on our subsidiaries and us. At March 1, 2009 (February month end), the Company was in violation of its Consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) financial covenant under the terms of the credit agreement that was amended in December 2008. On April 14, 2009, the Company entered into a Third Amendment to the Credit Agreement which included a waiver of any actual or potential Event of Default and amended and/or added certain definitions, terms and reporting requirements. Without improvements from the conditions in the current Economic Crisis in 2009 there can be no assurance that we will maintain compliance with our 2009 financial covenants, which were modified in December 2008 and again in April 2009. These covenants are measured on a monthly basis and require that we attain minimum levels of Consolidated EBITDA as defined by our Credit Agreement. If we fail to comply with our covenants under the Third Amendment, the lenders could cause our debt to become due and payable prior to maturity or it could result in our having to refinance the related indebtedness under unfavorable terms. If our debt were accelerated, our assets might not be sufficient to repay our debt in full. If current unfavorable credit market conditions were to persist throughout 2009, there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any or all of this indebtedness. For additional details and discussion concerning these financial covenants see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7 of this Report and Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Industry conditions and our operating results have limited our sources of capital in the past. If we are unable to locate suitable sources of capital when needed, we may be unable to maintain or expand our business. We depend on our cash balances, borrowings against our corporate-owned life insurance, our cash flows from operations and our Amended Credit Agreement to finance our operating requirements, capital expenditures and other 17 needs. If the economic conditions that prevailed during the latter part of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 continue or worsen, production of RVs and manufactured homes will likely decline even further, resulting in reduced demand for our products. A further decline in our operating results could negatively impact our liquidity. In addition, the downturn in the MH and RV industries, combined with our operating results and other changes, has limited our sources of financing in the past. If our cash balances, cash flows from operations, and availability under our Amended Credit Agreement are insufficient to finance our operations and alternative capital is not available, we may not be able to expand our business and make acquisitions, or we may need to curtail or limit our existing operations. We have letters of credit representing collateral for our casualty insurance programs and for general operating purposes. The letters of credit are issued under our Amended Credit Agreement. For additional detail and information concerning the amounts of our letters of credit, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The inability to retain our current letters of credit, to obtain alternative letter of credit sources or to retain our current Amended Credit Agreement to support these programs could require us to post cash collateral, reduce the amount of cash available for our operations or cause us to curtail or limit existing operations. Increased levels of inventory may adversely affect our profitability. Our customers generally do not maintain long-term supply contracts and, therefore, we must bear the risk of advanced estimation of customer orders. We maintain an inventory to support these customers’ needs. Changes in demand, market conditions and/or product specifications could result in material obsolescence and a lack of alternative markets for certain of our customer specific products and could negatively impact operating results. We may be subject to additional charges for impairment of assets, including goodwill, other long-lived assets and deferred tax assets, due to potential declines in the fair value of those assets or a decline in expected profitability of the Company or individual reporting units of the Company. A portion of our total assets as of December 31, 2008 was comprised of goodwill, amortizable intangible assets, and property, plant and equipment. Under generally accepted accounting principles, each of these assets is subject to periodic review and testing to determine whether the asset is recoverable or realizable. The events or changes that could require us to test our goodwill and intangible assets for impairment include a reduction in our stock price and market capitalization and changes in our estimated future cash flows, as well as changes in rates of growth in our industry or in any of our reporting units. In the fourth quarter of 2008, unfavorable economic conditions and trends in the industries in which we operate significantly contributed to declines in our market capitalization. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, we performed a test for impairment for each of these assets. The result of the impairment test and an independent third party appraisal indicated that a majority of our goodwill and other intangible assets were impaired. As a result, non-cash pretax impairment charges were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008 for $27.4 million related to goodwill and $29.3 million for other intangible assets. In addition, in accordance with SFAS No. 144, we performed a test for impairment of certain long-lived assets and determined that certain property, plant and equipment fixed assets were impaired. A non-cash pretax charge was recorded for $3.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. In the future, if actual sales demand or market conditions change from those projected by management, additional asset write-downs may be required. Significant impairment charges, although not always affecting current cash flow, could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position. A variety of factors could influence fluctuations in the market price for our common stock. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate in the future in response to a number of factors, including those discussed below. The market price of our common stock has in the past fluctuated and is likely to continue to fluctuate. Some of the factors that may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • variations in our and our competitors’ operating results; • historically low trading volume; • high concentration of shares held by institutional investors and in particular our majority shareholder, Tontine Capital Partners, L.P. and affiliates (collectively, “Tontine Capital”); 18 • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • additions or departure of key personnel; • events affecting other companies that the market deems comparable to us; • general conditions in industries in which we operate; • general conditions in the United States and abroad; • the presence or absence of short selling of our common stock; • future sales of our common stock or debt securities; • announcements by us or our competitors of technological improvements or new products; and • the disclosure by Tontine Capital that it will begin to explore alternatives for the disposition of its equity interests in the Company. Fluctuations in the stock market may have an adverse effect upon the price of our common stock. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial price and trading fluctuations. These fluctuations have resulted in volatility in the market prices of securities that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We may not be in compliance with NASDAQ’s continued listing standards for the NASDAQ Global Market because (1) the average closing share price of Patrick’s common stock for a consecutive 30-day trading period has fallen below $1.00 and (2) the market value of our publicly held shares is below $5,000,000. Although the NASDAQ has suspended its listing requirements through April 19, 2009 and we have not received notice of non-compliance from NASDAQ, the listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market is at risk as a result of our average closing share price falling below $1.00 per share over a consecutive 30-day trading period. The Company would have a period of 180 days from the date it receives notice to cure this non-compliance, and could request a hearing to stay the delisting. Our listing on the NASDAQ Global Market is also at risk as a result of the failure to have an aggregate of $5,000,000 of public market value. For purposes of this calculation, shares of common stock held by officers, directors and beneficial owners of 10% or more of our common stock (such as Tontine Capital) are excluded. Following issuance of a deficiency notice, the Company would have 90 days to achieve compliance. While we have a number of options to cure under consideration, there can be no assurance that we will be able to cure a deficiency in the time permitted. In addition, there can be no guarantee that the Company will remain in compliance with other continued listing requirements related to market capitalization and shareholder’s equity. In the current environment, there can be no assurance that we will not be in violation of other NASDAQ Global Market listing standards, which may not be curable. In the event the Company’s common stock is delisted from the NASDAQ stock exchange, there are additional risks such as the impact on the market liquidity of our common stock, the impact on our ability to raise capital or issue certain types of debt, and general issues regarding our perception in the marketplace. Holders of our common stock are subject to the risk of dilution of their investment as the result of the issuance to our lenders of warrants to purchase common stock. As part of the consideration for amending our Credit Agreement on December 11, 2008, we entered into a Warrant Agreement under which we issued to our lenders warrants to purchase an aggregate of 474,049 shares of common stock at an exercise price per share of $1 (the “Warrants”). The Warrants are immediately exercisable, subject to anti-dilution provisions and expire on December 11, 2018. The exercise of the Warrants would result in dilution to the holders of our common stock. 19 Ownership of a significant portion of our common stock is concentrated in the hands of a few holders. On March 31, 2009, Tontine Capital owned 5,174,963 shares of our common stock or approximately 57.4% of our total common stock outstanding. In addition, we were aware of six other institutions that collectively own approximately 20% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2008. In November 2008, Tontine Capital disclosed that it will begin to explore alternatives for the disposition of certain of its holdings, including its holdings of our common stock. We are not able to predict whether or when Tontine Capital or the other institutions will sell or otherwise dispose of substantial amounts of our common stock. Sales or other dispositions of our common stock by these institutions could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. A majority of our common stock is held by Tontine Capital, which has the ability to control all matters requiring shareholder approval and whose interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. On March 31, 2009, Tontine Capital held approximately 57.4% of our outstanding common stock. As a result of its majority interest, Tontine Capital has the ability to control all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of our directors, the adoption of amendments to our Articles of Incorporation, the approval of mergers and sales of all or substantially all of our assets, decisions affecting our capital structure and other significant corporate transactions. In addition to its majority interest, pursuant to a Securities Purchase Agreement with Tontine Capital, dated April 10, 2007, if Tontine Capital (i) holds between 7.5% and 14.9% of our common stock then outstanding, Tontine Capital has the right to appoint one nominee to our board; or (ii) holds at least 15% of our common stock then outstanding, Tontine Capital has the right to appoint two nominees to our board. Tontine Capital’s rights related to the appointment of directors were affirmed in a subsequent Securities Purchase Agreement with Tontine Capital, dated March 10, 2008. On July 21, 2008, a nominee of Tontine Capital was appointed to the board. As of March 31, 2009, Tontine Capital has not exercised its right to nominate a second director to the board. The interests of Tontine Capital may not in all cases be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. The influence of Tontine Capital may also have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. In addition, Tontine Capital and its affiliates are in the business of investing in companies and may, from time to time, invest in companies that compete directly or indirectly with us. Tontine Capital and its affiliates may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Tontine Capital has indicated in a filing with the SEC that it will begin to explore alternatives for the disposition of its equity interests in the Company. This filing, and any future dispositions of stock by Tontine Capital, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. On November 10, 2008, Tontine Capital filed with the SEC an amendment to its previously filed Schedule 13D with respect to its ownership of common stock of the Company. Tontine Capital stated that it will begin to explore alternatives for the disposition of its equity interests in the Company, which alternatives may include: (a) dispositions of our common stock through open market sales, underwritten offerings and/or privately negotiated sales; (b) a sale of the Company; or (c) distributions by Tontine Capital of its shares to its investors. The public disclosure of such possible disposition may adversely affect the market price for our common stock due to the large number of shares involved. In addition, we are not able to predict whether or when Tontine Capital will dispose of its stock. Any such future disposition of stock by Tontine Capital may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Certain provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws may delay, defer or prevent a change in control that our shareholders each might consider to be in their best interest. Our Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making them unacceptably expensive to the raider, and to encourage prospective acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. On March 21, 2006, our board adopted a Rights Agreement with National City Bank as our rights agent (the “Rights Agreement”). The Rights Agreement permits under certain circumstances each holder of common stock, other than potential acquirors, to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of a newly created series of our preferred stock at a 20 purchase price of $30 or to acquire additional shares of our common stock at 50% of the current market price. The rights are not exercisable or transferable until a person or group acquires 20% or more of our outstanding common stock, except with respect to Tontine Capital and its affiliates and associates, which are exempt from the provisions of the Rights Agreement pursuant to an amendment signed on March 12, 2008. Insurance Coverages and Terms and Conditions. We negotiate our insurance contracts annually for property, casualty, workers compensation, general liability, health insurance, and directors’ and officers’ liability coverage. Due to conditions within these insurance markets and other factors beyond our control, future coverage limits, terms and conditions and the amount of the related premiums could have a negative impact on our operating results. While we continually measure the risk/reward of policy limits and coverage, the lack of coverage in certain circumstances could result in potential uninsured losses. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 