Risk Factors An investment in the securities involves a high degree of risk. Investors need to carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this document and the Exhibits hereto. Industry Competition The mining industry is a highly diverse and competitive international business. The selection of geographic areas of interest are only limited by the degree of risk a company is willing to accept by the acquisition of properties in emerging or developed markets and/or prospecting in explored or virgin territory. Mining, by its nature, is a competitive business with the search for fresh ground with good exploration potential and the raising of the requisite capital to move projects forward to production. Globally the mining industry is prone to cyclical variations in the price of the commodities produced by it, as dictated by supply and demand factors, speculative factors and industry-controlled marketing cartels. Nature provides the ultimate uncertainty with geological and occasionally climatic surprises. Commensurate with the acceptance of this risk profile is the potential for high rewards. 6 Caledonia Mining Corporation Exploration and Development Exploration, development and production activities are subject to political, economic and other risks, including: - cancellation or renegotiation of contracts; - changes in local and foreign laws and regulations; - changes in tax laws; - delays or refusal in granting prospecting permissions, mining authorizations and work permits for foreign management staff; - environmental controls and permitting - expropriation or nationalization of property or assets; - foreign exchange controls; government mandated social expenditures; - import and export regulation, including restrictions on the sale of their production in foreign currencies; - industrial relations and the associated stability thereof; - inflation of cost that is not compensated for by a currency devaluation; - requirement that a foreign subsidiary or operating unit have a domestic joint venture partner, which, possibly, the foreign company must subsidize; - restrictions on the ability of local operating companies to sell their production for foreign currencies, and on the ability of such companies to hold these foreign currencies in offshore and/or local bank accounts; - restrictions on the ability of a foreign company to have management control of exploration and/or development and/or mining operations; - restrictions on the remittance of dividend and interest payments offshore; - retroactive tax or royalty claims; - risks of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism; - royalties and tax increases or claims by governmental entities; - unreliable local infrastructure and services such as power, communications and transport links; - demands or actions by native or indigenous groups; - other risks arising out of foreign sovereignty over the areas in which operations are conducted. - lack of uninterrupted power supplies - lack of investment funding Such risks could potentially arise in any country in which Caledonia operates. In Southern Africa, Black Economic Empowerment Legislation and a number of economic and social issues may result in increased political and economic risks of operating in that area. Zimbabwe brought its Indigenisation and Economic Empowerment Act into law in March 2008. The law requires that a majority stake (at least 51%) in all companies is held by indigenous Zimbabweans. On February 20, 2012 the Company signed a Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) with the Minister of Youth, Development, Indigenisation and Empowerment of the Government of Zimbabwe (the “Government of Zimbabwe”) pursuant to which Caledonia has agreed that Indigenous Zimbabweans will acquire an effective 51% of the Blanket Mine in Zimbabwe (“Blanket”) for a paid transactional value of U.S. $30.09 million on the following basis: · 16% will be sold to the National Indigenisation Economic Empowerment Fund; · 10% will be sold to a Management and Employee Trust for the benefit of the present and future managers and employees of Blanket; · 15% will be sold to identified Indigenous Zimbabweans; and · 10% will be donated to the Gwanda Community Share Ownership Trust. Caledonia will also make a non-refundable donation of US $1,000,000 to the Trust as soon as it has been established. Caledonia will facilitate the vendor funding of these transactions which will be repaid by way of future dividends from Blanket. Caledonia has undertaken to complete the implementation of all the components of the indigenisation transaction as soon as possible - which is currently underway. The Government of Zimbabwe has agreed that implementation of the terms of the MOU will constitute full compliance by Blanket and Caledonia with the requirements of the Indigenisation Act. However, there is no assurance that the implementation of the terms can be achieved without further difficulties – nor when the completion of the implementation will occur. 7 Caledonia Mining Corporation Effective January 1, 2012, Zimbabwe increased the gross royalty payable to the Zimbabwe Government from 4.5% to 7% of the gross revenues received by mining companies operating in Zimbabwe from gold sales. In January 2008 the Zambian government announced the following changes to its tax laws that would have had a bearing on the Nama Project. The key changes were: · Increase in mineral royalty from 0.6% to 3% · Increase in profit tax rate from 25% to 30% · Introduction of variable profits tax of 15% for net profits above 8% · Introduction of a windfall profit tax for copper and cobalt mines · Capital allowances reduced from 100% to 25% These measures were highly controversial with mining companies, many of which invested in the country under specific tax incentives and formalized their business models accordingly. Various representations were made by the mining companies both directly and through the Chamber of Mines to the government following the budget announcement at the end of January 2008. The Zambian government in January 2009 announced improvements to the taxation of mining companies, in particular: · the abolition of windfall tax · the return of capital allowances back to 100%. Whilst these changes are welcome, the royalty remains unchanged at 3% and we make the observation that at low cobalt prices, the royalty can give rise to a very significant tax burden on the project. As a result of the foregoing, Caledonia’s exploration, development and production activities in Zambia and Zimbabwe may be substantially affected by factors beyond Caledonia’s control, any of which could materially adversely affect Caledonia’s financial position or results from operations. Furthermore, in the event of a dispute arising from such activities, Caledonia may be subject to exclusive jurisdiction of courts outside North America or may not be successful in subjecting persons to the jurisdiction of the courts in North America, which could adversely affect the outcome of a dispute. History of Losses; Accumulated Deficit; No Assurance of Revenue or Operating Profit Since inception in February 1992, Caledonia has recorded a loss in every year except 1994, 2000, 2010 and 2011. As at December 31, 2011, the consolidated accumulated deficit was $158.4 million. Write-downs on capital assets and mineral properties are typical for the mining industry. Caledonia’s policy is to review the assets relative to current market conditions on an annual basis. Fluctuating Minerals Prices and Foreign Currency Exchange Rates As Caledonia’s activities primarily relate to the exploration, development and production of minerals, the fluctuating World prices for such minerals have a significant potential effect on the Company’s future activities and the profitability of any of its minerals production activities. There is never any assurance, when activities are undertaken, or production operations are commenced, that the World price of the minerals involved will continue at a sufficiently high price to justify the ongoing activities or the continuation of the production. Most costs incurred by the Company in its exploration, development and production activities in southern Africa have to be paid in local currencies. However, mineral prices are generally quoted in United States dollars. The profitability of any production operations of the Company and the potential profitability of its exploration and development activities will therefore be seriously affected by adverse changes in the currency exchange rates. Black Empowerment and Indigenization The governments of the southern African countries in which the Company operates have, or are proposing, legislation (typically referred to as “black empowerment”) requiring companies to allow participation in their shareholdings and business enterprises by the indigenous (i.e. black) population. In not all instances is it assured that such interests will have to be paid for at full fair value. In Zimbabwe, when Caledonia purchased the Blanket Mine, it agreed to establish a trust for the benefit of the employees of the Blanket Mine into which up to 30% of the issued shares of the wholly owned subsidiary which it acquired and is operating the Blanket Mine would be placed. As a result of the Indigenisation Law which has been passed by the Government of Zimbabwe it is now expected that the proposed trust will be established during the second quarter of 2012, but only at 10% of the issued shares. 8 Caledonia Mining Corporation Need for Additional Funds The Company expects that for at least 2012 and 2013, it can fund all of its exploration, development and production operations from internal funds – and that it will not have to seek externally sourced funding for those years. Joint Venture Negotiations Two of the three Rooipoort platinum prospecting rights applied for have been granted to prospect for PGMs on major portions of the Mapochsgronde tribal trust land and are currently in the process of registration. The remaining property to the north of the area where the current rights are under appeal with the DME and its decision is awaited. When the exploration rights are registered joint venture partners will be sought for this project. Dependence upon Key Personnel Caledonia’s success depends (i) on the continued contributions of its directors, executive officers, management and consultants, and (ii) on Caledonia’s ability to attract new personnel whenever Caledonia seeks to implement its business strategy. There is no assurance that the Company will always be able to locate and hire all of the personnel that it may consider that it requires. The Company, where it considers it appropriate, engages consulting and service companies to undertake some of the work function. Chris Harvey retired from his position as Technical Director in December 2005, but continues as a Director and was appointed as a member of the Audit Committee in June 2009. James Johnstone retired from his position as Chief Operating Officer in September, 2006, also continues as a Director and was appointed as a member of the audit committee in December 2010. Steven Curtis was appointed Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer in April 2006, and was appointed as a Director on June 1, 2008. Mark Learmonth, previously a Director of Macquarie First South, was appointed as VP Corporate Development and Investor Relations on July 10, 2008. Stefan Hayden stepped down as the Chairman in 2005 but continues as a Director and as President and CEO. Carl Jonsson, a Director was appointed Chairman of the Board in December 2010. Robert W. Babensee was appointed as a Director and a member of the Audit Committee on October 31, 2008 and became Chairman of the Audit Committee in December 2010. Absence of Dividends The Company has never paid or declared any dividends and has no dividend policy. Possible Volatility of Share Price Market prices for mining company securities, by their nature, are volatile. Factors, such as rapidly changing commodity prices, political unrest globally and in countries where Caledonia operates, speculative interest in mining stocks etc. are but a few factors affecting the volatility of the share price. Caledonia listed its shares on the London Stock Exchange’s Alternative Investment Market (“AIM”) in June 2005 – and secured the quotation of its shares in the U.S. on the OTCQX commencing October 10, 2011. 