ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows can be adversely affected by various risks related to its business. These risks include, but are not limited to, the principal factors listed below and the other matters set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All of these risks should be carefully considered. Our results of operations may continue to be adversely impacted by the residual effects and overhang of the worldwide macroeconomic downturn and recent concerns over the sustainability of the economic recovery. Although economic conditions improved somewhat in 2010 and further in 2011 and 2012 following the severe general worldwide macroeconomic downturn from 2008 through part of 2010, and, as a result, our sales, operating income, and cash flows improved, a further deterioration in these conditions could negatively affect our operations and result in lower sales, income, and cash flows in the future. In addition, it is still difficult at times for our customers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. If our business conditions warrant, we may be forced to close and/or consolidate certain of our operating facilities, sell assets, and/or reduce our workforce, which may result in our incurring restructuring charges. We cannot predict the duration of an economic downturn, the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery or the extent to which an economic downturn will continue to negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents It is also possible that recent economic improvements may be reversed if the current economic turmoil in parts of Europe becomes global or the United States Congress fails to resolve certain critical fiscal policy issues it is now facing. In addition, many local governments and many businesses still face financial difficulties due to depressed consumer spending and continued decreased liquidity in the credit markets. The continuing depressed conditions in the residential housing market have had an adverse impact on our operations in recent years and could have an adverse impact on our operations in 2013 and other future periods. The residential housing market has experienced overall declines and is expected to remain at depressed levels by historical standards at least through 2013, despite recent and forecasted improvements. Approximately 60% of our industrial revenue in 2012 was directly tied to the residential housing market. In addition, a significant portion of our other industrial revenue and substantially all of our MH revenue is directly or indirectly influenced by conditions in the residential housing market. The decline in demand for residential housing, ongoing credit concerns and the tightening of consumer credit have lowered demand for our industrial and MH products and have had an adverse impact on our operations as a whole. In addition, the impact of the sub-prime mortgage crisis and housing downturn on consumer confidence, discretionary spending, and general economic conditions has decreased and may continue to decrease demand for our products sold to the RV industry. We may incur significant charges or be adversely impacted by the consolidation and/or closure of all or part of a manufacturing or distribution facility. We periodically assess the cost structure of our operating facilities to distribute and/or manufacture and sell our products in the most efficient manner. In 2011, we consolidated the newly acquired countertop manufacturing business of Praxis into one of our existing manufacturing facilities in Elkhart, Indiana that engages in similar activities. In addition, we consolidated the solid surface operations of one of our existing manufacturing facilities located in Elkhart into the larger manufacturing facility acquired with our acquisition of AIA. In September 2012, we consolidated our Woodburn, Oregon high-pressure laminate manufacturing cell for the industrial market and a distribution center for the RV and MH markets into our recently acquired manufacturing operation in Tualatin, Oregon. In addition, we consolidated the interior passage doors product line from the newly acquired manufacturing business of Creative Wood into one of our existing manufacturing facilities in Elkhart, Indiana that engages in similar activities. We also closed our owned distribution facility in Halstead, Kansas and consolidated the business into the existing Waco, Texas distribution facility as a result of the continued deterioration of the Kansas manufactured housing market. The charges related to the consolidation and/or closure of certain facilities were not significant in 2011 and 2012. Based on our assessments and if required by business conditions, we may make capital investments to move, discontinue manufacturing and/or distribution capabilities, sell or close all or part of additional manufacturing and/or distribution facilities in the future. These changes could result in significant future charges or disruptions in our operations, and we may not achieve the expected benefits from these changes, which could result in an adverse impact on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. The financial condition of our customers and suppliers may deteriorate as a result of the current economic environment and competitive conditions in their markets. The continued effects of the recent economic crisis may lead to increased levels of restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, suppliers and other service providers and financial institutions with whom we do business. Such events could, in turn, negatively affect our business either through loss of sales or inability to meet our commitments (or inability to meet them without excess expense) because of loss of suppliers or other providers. In addition, several of our customers have undergone unprecedented financial distress, which may result in such customers undergoing major restructuring, reorganization or other significant changes. The occurrence of any such event could have further adverse consequences to our business including a decrease in demand for our products. If such customers become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover accounts receivables from those customers would be adversely affected and any payments we received in the preference period prior to a bankruptcy filing may be potentially recoverable by the bankruptcy trustee. 16 Table of Contents Many of our customers participate in highly competitive markets, and their financial condition may deteriorate as a result. A decline in the financial condition of our customers could hinder our ability to collect amounts owed by customers. In addition, such a decline could result in lower demand for our products and services. Although we have a large number of customers, a limited number of customers account for a significant percentage of the Company’s sales and the loss of one or several significant customers could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. We have a number of customers that account for a significant percentage of our net sales. Specifically, two customers in the RV market accounted for a combined 54% of consolidated net sales in 2012. The loss of any of our large customers could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. We do not have long-term agreements with customers and cannot predict that we will maintain our current relationships with these customers or that we will continue to supply them at current levels. A significant percentage of the Company’s sales are concentrated in the RV industry, and declines in the level of RV unit shipments, or reductions in industry growth, could adversely impact our sales levels to this industry and our operating results. In 2012, 69% of our net sales were to the RV industry versus 61% in 2011 and 58% in 2010. The increase in the Company’s sales concentration in the RV industry primarily resulted from the recovery in RV wholesale unit shipment levels beginning in late 2009, increased RV market penetration by the Company and the Company’s successful completion of several RV-related acquisitions in the 2010 to 2012 period. Future declines in RV unit shipment levels or reductions in industry growth could significantly reduce the Company’s revenue from the RV industry and have a material adverse impact on our operating results in 2013 and other future periods. The manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries are highly competitive and some of our competitors may have greater resources than we do. We operate in a highly competitive business environment and our sales could be negatively impacted by our inability to maintain or increase prices, changes in geographic or product mix, or the decision of our customers to purchase our competitors’ products instead of our products or to produce in-house products that we currently produce. We compete not only with other suppliers to the RV and MH producers but also with suppliers to traditional site-built homebuilders and suppliers of cabinetry. Sales could also be affected by pricing, purchasing, financing, advertising, operational, promotional, or other decisions made by purchasers of our products. Additionally, we cannot control the decisions made by suppliers of our distributed and manufactured products and therefore, our ability to maintain our exclusive and non-exclusive distributor contracts and agreements may be adversely impacted. The greater financial resources or the lower amount of debt of certain of our competitors may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions. Certain competitors may also have the ability to develop innovative new products that could put the Company at a competitive disadvantage. If we are unable to compete successfully against other manufacturers and suppliers to the RV and MH industries, we could lose customers and sales could decline, or we will not be able to improve or maintain profit margins on sales to customers or be able to continue to compete successfully in our core markets. Cyclical economic conditions and seasonality affect the RV and MH markets the Company serves and the results for any prior period may not be indicative of results for any future period. The RV and MH markets have been characterized by cycles of growth and contraction in consumer demand and dependent upon various factors, including the general level of economic activity, consumer confidence, interest rates, access to financing, inventory and production levels, and the cost and availability of fuel. Economic and demographic factors can cause substantial fluctuations in production, which in turn impact sales and operating results. Our sales levels and operating results could be negatively impacted by changes in any of these items. Consequently, the results for any prior period may not be indicative of results for any future period. In addition, manufacturing operations in the RV and MH industries historically have been seasonal and are generally at the highest levels when the weather is moderate. However, seasonal industry trends in the past 17 Table of Contents several years have been different from prior years, primarily reflecting volatile economic conditions, fluctuations in RV dealer inventories, changing dealer show schedules, interest rates, access to financing, the cost of fuel, and increased demand from RV dealers since the latter part of 2009. Consequently, future seasonal trends may be different from prior years. The cyclical nature of the domestic housing market has caused our sales and operating results to fluctuate. These fluctuations may continue in the future, which could result in operating losses during downturns. The U.S. housing industry is cyclical and is influenced by many national and regional economic and demographic factors, including: · terms and availability of financing for homebuyers and retailers; · overall consumer confidence and the level of discretionary consumer spending; · interest rates; · population and employment trends; · income levels; · housing demand; and · general economic conditions, including inflation, deflation and recessions. The RV and MH industries and the industrial markets can be affected by the fluctuations in the residential housing market. As a result of the foregoing factors, our sales and operating results can fluctuate, and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future. Moreover, cyclical and seasonal downturns in the residential housing market may cause us to experience operating losses. Fuel shortages or high prices for fuel have had, and could continue to have, an adverse impact on our operations. The products produced by the RV industry typically require gasoline or diesel fuel for their operation, or the use of a vehicle requiring gasoline or diesel fuel for their operation. There can be no assurance that the supply of gasoline and diesel fuel will continue uninterrupted or that the price or tax on fuel will not significantly increase in the future. Shortages of gasoline and diesel fuel have had a significant adverse effect on the demand for recreational vehicles in the past and would be expected to have a material adverse effect on demand in the future. Rapid significant increases in fuel prices, as we experienced in recent years and are currently experiencing, appear to affect the demand for recreational vehicles when gasoline prices reach unusually high levels. Such a reduction in overall demand for recreational vehicles could have a materially adverse impact on our revenues and profitability. Approximately 69% and 61% of our sales were to the RV industry for 2012 and 2011, respectively. We are dependent on third-party suppliers and manufacturers. Generally, our raw materials, supplies and energy requirements are obtained from various sources and in the quantities desired. While alternative sources are available, our business is subject to the risk of price increases and periodic delays in delivery. Fluctuations in the prices of these requirements may be driven by the supply/demand relationship for that commodity, governmental regulation, economic conditions in other countries, religious holidays, natural disasters, and other events. In addition, if any of our suppliers seek bankruptcy relief or otherwise cannot continue their business as anticipated, the availability or price of these requirements could be adversely affected. The increased cost and limited availability of raw materials may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Prices of certain materials, including gypsum, lauan, particleboard, MDF, and other commodity products, can be volatile and change dramatically with changes in supply and demand. Certain products are purchased from overseas and their availability is dependent upon climate changes, seasonal and religious holidays, political unrest, economic conditions overseas, natural disasters, vessel shipping schedules and port availability. Further, certain of our commodity product suppliers sometimes operate at or near capacity, resulting in some products having the potential of being put on allocation. We generally have been able to maintain adequate supplies of materials and to pass higher material costs on to our customers in the form of surcharges and base price increases where 18 Table of Contents needed. However, it is not certain future price increases can be passed on to our customers without affecting demand or that limited availability of materials will not impact our production capabilities. The recent credit crisis and its continuing impact on the financial and housing markets may also impact our suppliers and affect the availability or pricing of materials. Our sales levels and operating results could be negatively impacted by changes in any of these items. We are subject to governmental and environmental regulations, and failure in our compliance efforts or events beyond our control could result in damages, expenses or liabilities that individually or in the aggregate would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our manufacturing businesses are subject to various governmental and environmental regulations. Implementation of new regulations or amendments to existing regulations could significantly increase the cost of the Company’s products. Certain components of manufactured and modular homes are subject to regulation by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission. We currently use materials that we believe comply with government regulations. We cannot presently determine what, if any, legislation may be adopted by Congress or state or local governing bodies, or the effect any such legislation may have on the MH industry or us. In addition, failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines or potential civil or criminal liability. Both scenarios could negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition. New regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo (“DRC”) and adjoining countries. As a result, in August 2012, the SEC adopted annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use conflict minerals mined from the DRC and adjoining countries in their products. These new requirements will require due diligence efforts in fiscal 2013, with initial disclosure requirements beginning in May 2014. There will be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. The implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering conflict-free minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict minerals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. We may also face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we may implement. The inability to attract and retain qualified executive officers and key personnel may adversely affect our operations. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key personnel such as our Chief Executive Officer could reduce our ability to manage our business and strategic plan in the short term and could cause our sales and operating results to decline. In addition, our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain executive management, key employees and other qualified personnel. Our ability to integrate acquired businesses may adversely affect operations. As part of our business and strategic plan, we look for strategic acquisitions to provide shareholder value. Any acquisition will require the effective integration of an existing business and its administrative, financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing and other functions to maximize synergies. Acquired businesses involve a number of risks that may affect our financial performance, including increased leverage, diversion of management resources, assumption of liabilities of the acquired businesses, and possible corporate culture conflicts. If we are unable to successfully integrate these acquisitions, we may not realize the benefits identified in our due diligence process, and our financial results may be negatively impacted. Additionally, significant unexpected liabilities could arise from these acquisitions. 19 Table of Contents Increased levels of indebtedness may harm our financial condition and results of operations. On October 24, 2012, we entered into a credit agreement (the “2012 Credit Agreement”) with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association as the agent and lender (“Wells Fargo”), and Fifth-Third Bank (“Fifth-Third”) as participant (collectively, the “Lenders”), to establish a five-year $80 million revolving secured senior credit facility (the “2012 Credit Facility”). As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $49.7 million of total debt outstanding under our 2012 Credit Facility. If our indebtedness were to increase, it could have adverse consequences on our future operations, including making it more difficult for us to meet our payments on outstanding debt and we may not be able to find alternative financing sources to replace our indebtedness in such an event. Furthermore, increasing our indebtedness could (i) reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limit our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; (ii) limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; (iii) place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged; and (iv) create concerns about our credit quality which could result in the loss of supplier contracts and/or customers. Our 2012 Credit Agreement contains various financial performance and other covenants. If we do not remain in compliance with these covenants, our 2012 Credit Agreement could be terminated and the amounts outstanding thereunder could become immediately due and payable. We have debt outstanding that contains financial and non-financial covenants with which we must comply that place restrictions on us. There can be no assurance that we will maintain compliance with the financial covenants under our 2012 Credit Agreement. These covenants require that we attain a maximum level of a consolidated total leverage ratio and a minimum level of a consolidated interest coverage ratio under the 2012 Credit Facility, and adhere to annual capital expenditure limitations as defined by our 2012 Credit Agreement. If we fail to comply with the covenants contained in our 2012 Credit Agreement, the lenders could cause our debt to become due and payable prior to maturity or it could result in our having to refinance the indebtedness under unfavorable terms. If our debt were accelerated, our assets might not be sufficient to repay our debt in full and there can be no assurance that we would be able to refinance any or all of this indebtedness. Due to industry conditions and our operating results, we have had limited access to sources of capital in the past. If we are unable to locate suitable sources of capital when needed, we may be unable to maintain or expand our business. We depend on our cash balances, our cash flows from operations, and our 2012 Credit Facility to finance our operating requirements, capital expenditures and other needs. If the general economic conditions that prevailed in 2009 and part of 2010 should return in the future, production of RVs and manufactured homes could decline, resulting in reduced demand for our products. A decline in our operating results could negatively impact our liquidity. If our cash balances, cash flows from operations, and availability under our 2012 Credit Facility are insufficient to finance our operations and alternative capital is not available, we may not be able to expand our business and make acquisitions, or we may need to curtail or limit our existing operations. We have letters of credit representing collateral for our casualty insurance programs and for general operating purposes. The letters of credit are issued under our 2012 Credit Agreement. The inability to retain our current letters of credit, to obtain alternative letter of credit sources, or to retain our 2012 Credit Agreement to support these programs could require us to post cash collateral, reduce the amount of cash available for our operations, or cause us to curtail or limit existing operations. Increased levels of inventory may adversely affect our profitability. Our customers generally do not maintain long-term supply contracts and, therefore, we must bear the risk of advanced estimation of customer orders. We maintain an inventory to support these customers’ needs. Changes in demand, market conditions and/or product specifications could result in material obsolescence and a lack of alternative markets for certain of our customer specific products and could negatively impact operating results. 20 Table of Contents We could incur charges for impairment of assets, including goodwill and other long-lived assets, due to potential declines in the fair value of those assets or a decline in expected profitability of the Company or individual reporting units of the Company. A portion of our total assets as of December 31, 2012 was comprised of goodwill, amortizable intangible assets, and property, plant and equipment. Under generally accepted accounting principles, each of these assets is subject to periodic review and testing to determine whether the asset is recoverable or realizable. The events or changes that could require us to test our goodwill and intangible assets for impairment include changes in our estimated future cash flows, changes in rates of growth in our industry or in any of our reporting units, and decreases in our stock price and market capitalization. In the future, if actual sales demand or market conditions change from those projected by management, asset write-downs may be required. Significant impairment charges, although not always affecting current cash flow, could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position. A variety of factors could influence fluctuations in the market price for our common stock. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate in the future in response to a number of factors, including those discussed below. The market price of our common stock has in the past fluctuated and is likely to continue to fluctuate. Some of the factors that may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate include: · variations in our and our competitors’ operating results; · historically low trading volume; · high concentration of shares held by institutional investors and in particular our significant shareholder, Tontine Capital (as defined herein); · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · the gain or loss of significant customers; · additions or departures of key personnel; · events affecting other companies that the market deems comparable to us; · general conditions in industries in which we operate; · general conditions in the United States and abroad; · the presence or absence of short selling of our common stock; · future sales of our common stock or debt securities; · announcements by us or our competitors of technological improvements or new products; and · the sale by Tontine Capital or its announcement of an intention to sell, all or a portion of its equity interests in the Company. Fluctuations in the stock market may have an adverse effect upon the price of our common stock. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial price and trading fluctuations. These fluctuations have resulted in volatility in the market prices of securities that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. A major portion of our common stock is held by Tontine Capital Partners, L.P. and affiliates (collectively, “Tontine Capital”), which has the ability to influence our affairs significantly, including all matters requiring shareholder approval, and whose interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. In addition, the concentration of ownership of our common stock by Tontine Capital and a few other holders may have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Based on information contained in a filing by Tontine Capital with the SEC on January 4, 2013, the aggregate number of shares of the Company’s common stock beneficially owned by Tontine Capital was 3,977,661 shares or 37.0% of our outstanding common stock as of March 15, 2013. 21 Table of Contents Tontine Capital has the ability to influence our affairs significantly, including all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of our directors, the adoption of amendments to our Articles of Incorporation, the approval of mergers and sales of all or substantially all of our assets, decisions affecting our capital structure and other significant corporate transactions. In addition to its current major interest, pursuant to a Securities Purchase Agreement with Tontine Capital, dated April 10, 2007, if Tontine Capital (i) holds between 7.5% and 14.9% of our common stock then outstanding, Tontine Capital has the right to appoint one nominee to our board; or (ii) holds at least 15% of our common stock then outstanding, Tontine Capital has the right to appoint two nominees to our board. As of March 15, 2013, Tontine Capital has one director on the Company’s board of directors and has not exercised its right to nominate a second director to the board. The interests of Tontine Capital may not in all cases be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. The influence of Tontine Capital may also have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. In addition, Tontine Capital and its affiliates are in the business of investing in companies and may, from time to time, invest in companies that compete directly or indirectly with us. Tontine Capital and its affiliates may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. The ownership of a significant portion of our common stock is concentrated in the hands of Tontine Capital and a few other holders. We are not able to predict whether or when Tontine Capital or other large stockholders will sell or otherwise dispose of additional shares of our common stock. Sales or other dispositions of our common stock by these stockholders could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. In filings with the SEC, Tontine Capital has indicated that it may dispose of its equity interests in the Company at any time and from time to time. This public disclosure and any future dispositions of stock by Tontine Capital could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In filings with the SEC, Tontine Capital has indicated that it may dispose of its equity interests in the Company at any time and from time to time in the open market, through dispositions in kind to parties holding an ownership interest in Tontine Capital or otherwise. The public disclosure of such possible disposition may adversely affect the market price for our common stock due to the large number of shares involved. In addition, we are not able to predict whether or when Tontine Capital will dispose of its stock. Any such future disposition of stock by Tontine Capital may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Certain provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws may delay, defer or prevent a change in control that our shareholders each might consider to be in their best interest. Our Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making them unacceptably expensive to the raider, and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. We have in place a Rights Agreement, which permits under certain circumstances each holder of common stock, other than potential acquirers, to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of a newly created series of our preferred stock at a purchase price of $30 or to acquire additional shares of our common stock at 50% of the current market price. The rights are not exercisable or transferable until a person or group acquires 20% or more of our outstanding common stock, except with respect to Tontine Capital and its affiliates and associates, which are exempt from the provisions of the Rights Agreement pursuant to an amendment signed on March 12, 2008. The effects of the Rights Agreement would be to discourage a stockholder from attempting to take over our company without negotiating with our Board of Directors. Conditions within the insurance markets could impact our ability to negotiate favorable terms and conditions for various liability coverages and could potentially result in uninsured losses. We generally negotiate our insurance contracts annually for property, casualty, workers compensation, general liability, health insurance, and directors and officers liability coverage. Due to conditions within these insurance 22 Table of Contents markets and other factors beyond our control, future coverage limits, terms and conditions and the amount of the related premiums could have a negative impact on our operating results. While we continually measure the risk/reward of policy limits and coverage, the lack of coverage in certain circumstances could result in potential uninsured losses. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 