D. Risk Factors An investment in the securities involves a high degree of risk. Investors need to carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this section “D” and the Exhibits hereto. Industry Competition The mining industry is a highly diverse and competitive international business. The selection of geographic areas of interest are only limited by the degree of risk a company is willing to accept by the acquisition of properties in emerging or developed markets and/or prospecting in explored or virgin territory. Mining by its nature, is a competitive business with the search for fresh ground with good exploration potential and the raising of the requisite capital to move projects forward to production. Globally the mining industry is prone to cyclical variations in the price of the commodities produced by it, as dictated by supply and demand factors, speculative factors and industry-controlled marketing cartels. Nature provides the ultimate uncertainty with geological and occasionally climatic surprises. Commensurate with the acceptance of this risk profile is the potential for high rewards. Exploration and Development The exploration, and development of, and the production from mineral deposits is potentially subject to a number of political, economic and other risks. Exploration, development and production activities are potentially subject to political, economic and other risks, including: · cancellation or renegotiation of contracts; · changes in local and foreign laws and regulations; · changes in tax laws; · delays or refusal in granting prospecting permissions, mining authorizations and work permits for foreign management staff; · environmental controls and permitting · expropriation or nationalization of property or assets; · foreign exchange controls; · government mandated social expenditures, such as comprehensive health care for HIV/AIDS infected employees and families; · import and export regulation, including restrictions on the sale of their production in foreign currencies; · industrial relations and the associated stability thereof; · inflation of cost that is not compensated for by a currency devaluation; · requirement that a foreign subsidiary or operating unit have a domestic joint venture partner, possibly which the foreign company must subsidize; · restrictions on the ability of local operating companies to sell their production for foreign currencies, and on the ability of such companies to hold these foreign currencies in offshore and/or local bank accounts; · restrictions on the ability of a foreign company to have management control of exploration and/or development and/or mining operations; · restrictions on the remittance of dividend and interest payments offshore; · retroactive tax or royalty claims; · risks of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism; · royalties and tax increases or claims by governmental entities; · unreliable local infrastructure and services such as power, communications and transport links; · other risks arising out of foreign sovereignty over the areas in which Caledonia’s operations are conducted. Such risks could potentially arise in any country in which Caledonia operates; however the risks are regarded as greater in South Africa and Zambia. In South Africa, the Black Economic Empowerment Legislation and a number of economic and social issues may result in an increased perceived political and economic risk weighting of operating in that country. Consequently, Caledonia’s exploration, development and production activities may be substantially affected by factors beyond Caledonia’s control, any of which could materially adversely affect Caledonia’s financial position or results from operations. Furthermore, in the event of a dispute arising from such activities, Caledonia may be subject to exclusive jurisdiction of courts outside North America or may not be successful in subjecting persons to the jurisdiction of the courts in North America, which could adversely affect the outcome of a dispute. History of Losses; Accumulated Deficit; No Assurance of Revenue or Operating Profit Since inception from February 1992, Caledonia has recorded a loss in every year except 1994 and 2000. As at December 31, 2005, the consolidated accumulated deficit was $161.6 million. 68.5% of the accumulated loss relates to capital asset and mineral property write-downs, 6.8% is due to discontinued operations prior to 1998, and the balance of 24.7% relates to operational and administration activity. Operational activity is defined as gross profit from mining operations less expenses such as amortization, general and administration, interest on debt and other miscellaneous expenses. Write-downs on capital assets and mineral properties are typical for the mining industry. Caledonia’s policy is to review the carrying value of assets relative to current market conditions on an annual basis. In 1997, Caledonia reduced the carrying value of its investment in the two South African gold mines by recording a write-down of $44.9 million. This reduction was made in response to a decline in the average price of gold per ounce from about US$364 in 1996 to US$327 in 1997 and the placing of the two mines onto "care and maintenance". Similarly in 1998 and 1999, these assets were further reduced by $10.6 million and $2.4 million respectively when the gold price fell to about US$ 250 per oz. In 2004, the mineral property of Eersteling Gold Mine was written down by $223,000 to $0. Similarly in 2004, the Eersteling plant and equipment was written down from $1.596 million to $0.887 million at the year end. There were no write-downs in 2005. During 2003, the Rand price of gold held steady at between R82,000 and R88,000 per kilogram despite a slow but gradual increase in the price of gold to about US $415 per ounce at the 2003 year end from a price of $347 per ounce at the beginning of 2003. As the gold price recovers to acceptable levels and the South African mines recommence production, a substantial portion of the write-down could be recovered as earnings. However, there is no assurance the Rand price of gold will be sustainable. During 2004, despite the gold price in US dollars increasing to a high of $458, the price of gold in South African Rand at the end of the year declined by about 9.5% over that at the end of 2003. The Rand appreciated by 14.8% against the US$ over the 2004 year whilst the US$ gold price increased by about 6.6% over the year. This trend reversed during 2005 as the South African Rand weakened by 12.2% against the United States dollar which, coupled with the 23.8% increase i n the US$ gold price, resulted in a 38.9% increase in the Rand gold price per ounce over the year. In 2002, the carrying value of Caledonia’s Kadola exploration property in Zambia, amounting to $2.6 million was written down to $1 as no exploration funding was available for this project at that time. In 2003, the carrying value of the Nama group exploration property in Zambia, $9,534,000, was written down to $1 due to lack of significant exploration activity on the property during the year and despite there being strong interest shown on purchasing a cobalt concentrate from Nama by potential end-users. In 2004, development work was re-started on the Nama cobalt project due to increases in the prices of base metals and the continuing strength of the price of cobalt. During 2005 discussions were held with a number of cobalt end-users regarding a joint venture agreement at Nama, a letter of intent has been signed with one of these and discussions are continuing with a number of other end-users At the end of 2005, Eersteling Gold Mining Company Limited spent an amount of $3.324 million on exploration of its Rooipoort Platinum Project, which reported a NI 43-101 Resource estimate in December 2005, and the Roodepoort Gold Project and had been capitalized under Canadian GAAP in the books of the Corporation. Of the above $3.324 million, $1.653 was spent in 2005, $1.151 was spent in 2004 and the balance was spent in 2003. In general, mining companies react to changing commodity prices by searching for new methods of operating to either increase the volume of production from existing ore reserves or reduce operating costs. Caledonia is continuously searching for new production methods and operating cost efficiencies in an attempt to mitigate the effects of lower commodity prices on operating profits. However, there is no guarantee that Caledonia will be successful in its efforts. Caledonia at its Barbrook mine recommenced gold production in the 2nd quarter of 2003 and introduced the relatively new technology of Resin leaching to increase its gold recovery and enhance economics. In late 2003 and during 2004 Caledonia introduced additional new flotation equipment and concentrate oxidation technology at Barbrook to further improve the gold recovery and production economics. In late 2005 in light of additional mining flexibility providing the opportunity to increase produc tion the Barbrook metallurgical plant was expanded to a design capacity of 15,000 tonnes per month, and this expansion was completed and commissioned in January 2006. Caledonia is further evaluating alternative metallurgical processes to determine whether further improvements in recoveries and mine economics can be attained. Need for Additional Funds The expected increase in gold production at Caledonia’s Barbrook mine should, depending on the Rand price of gold received, generate positive cash flow in 2006. However, if funds fall short of requirements, Caledonia will undertake financing options such as private placements with private investors, and, if this is still insufficient for its needs, will investigate either project joint ventures or project or bank funding. The funds raised by the 2005 financing have been and will be mainly used by Caledonia on its exploration, development and production activities such as: · at Barbrook by developing vertical shaft access to ore resources below the 10 level and by lateral development to the east along strike; providing continuity of the mining operations; and possibly making further capital additions to the Barbrook metallurgical plant, such as a Biox® circuit ; · by further drilling at Caledonia’s Rooipoort Platinum Project; · by the purchase of additional exploration property adjacent to Caledonia’s Rooipoort Platinum Project; · drilling of Caledonia’s Rooipoort project once the Prospecting permit has been issued; · by further bulk sampling and concentration testwork on Caledonia’s Nama Cobalt/Copper Project in Zambia; · by further exploration and drilling at the Roodepoort gold project of Eersteling; · by possible drilling of target exploration areas at Eersteling gold mine; and · by further drilling/bulk sampling and processing of material from the Goedgevonden Diamond project. The Mulonga Plains Joint Venture with the BHP-Billiton Entity is subject to joint venture agreements and is fully funded by the joint venture partner through to commercial production. Similarly, the Kikerk Lake joint venture with Ashton Mining (Canada) Limited is fully funded by Ashton. Caledonia continues to actively review the benefits, to Caledonia and its shareholders, of seeking joint venture partners for most, if not all of its exploration properties. Dependence upon Key Personnel Caledonia’s success depends (i) on the continued contributions of its directors, executive officers, management and consultants, and (ii) on Caledonia’s ability to attract new personnel whenever Caledonia seeks to implement its business strategy. During Caledonia’s limited operating history and the continuous shortage of funding between 1997 and mid 2002, most of the key responsibilities within Caledonia have been assigned to a small number of individuals. With recommencement of production at the Barbrook mine and the expansion of other Southern African projects, various consultants and staff have been engaged to assist with the increased technical and administrative workload. In late 2003 and early 2004 additions were made to the corporate staff at senior levels to strengthen the management and operations team in South Africa and to address some of the succession planning needs of Caledonia Additional senior staff will be recruited during 2006 to replace Mr Harvey who retired from his position as Technical Director in December 2005, but continues as a director, and Mr Johnstone, Chief Operating Officer, who has given notice of his retirement effective October 1, 2006. To follow on from the previously disclosed appointments, Mr. Mike Tombs was appointed Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer at mid 2004, and Mr. Roland Fasel of Geneva, Switzerland was appointed to the Board of Directors in August 2004. In order to split the roles of the Chairman and the CEO Mr. Rupert Pardoe of Johannesburg, South Africa was appointed as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Corporation in February 2005. Mr. Hayden stepped down as the Chairman at that time but continues as the Corporation’s President and CEO. Absence of Dividends The Company has never paid or declared or paid cash dividends on Common Stock. Possible Volatility of Share Price Market prices for mining company securities, by their nature, are volatile. Factors, such as rapidly changing commodity prices, political unrest globally and in countries where Caledonia operates, speculative interest in mining stocks etc. are but a few factors affecting the volatility of the share price. Caledonia listed its shares on the London Stock Exchange’s Alternative Investment Market (“AIM”) in June 2005 and is trying to attract more institutional and stock analyst coverage of its shares. 