Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks along with the other information contained in this Report. All of the following risks could materially or adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition to the risks below, other risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also materially or adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and financial results. Risks Relating to Our Business The success of our business is dependent on a number of factors that are not within our control. The success of our franchisees’ and our company-owned restaurant operations is, and will continue to be, subject to a number of factors that are not within our control, including: • changes in consumer tastes; -7- Table of Contents • national, regional and local economic conditions; • traffic patterns in the venues in which we operate; • discretionary spending priorities; • demographic trends; • consumer confidence in food quality, handling and safety; • consumer confidence in the security of shopping malls, downtown areas, airports, casinos, universities, travel plazas, sports arenas and other venues in which we and our franchisees operate; • weather conditions; and • the type, number and location of competing restaurants. Deterioration in general economic conditions and declines in consumer spending can negatively affect our business. Our business is susceptible to adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions, which could make it difficult and uncertain for us to forecast operating results. In particular, our business is sensitive to consumer spending patterns and preferences. Market and general economic conditions including general business conditions, interest rates, taxation, the availability of consumer credit and consumer confidence in future economic conditions affect the level of discretionary spending on the products we and our franchisees offer. Any unfavorable occurrences in these economic conditions may adversely affect our growth, sales and profitability. For instance, many of our company-owned stores and our franchisees’ stores are located in shopping malls, particularly in the United States. Our stores derive revenue, in part, from the high volume of traffic in these malls. As a result of deteriorating economic conditions, the inability of mall “anchor” tenants and other area attractions to generate consumer traffic around our stores or the decline in popularity of malls as shopping destinations could reduce our revenue depending on sales volume. Additionally, continuing weakness in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, volatility in commodity and fuel costs, difficulties in the financial sector and credit markets, and other factors affecting consumer spending could cause reduced sales of our products and make it more difficult for us to execute our growth strategy. Our 2010 projections assume an improvement in general economic conditions and include the achievement of a 1% increase in year over year comparative same store sales. Failure to achieve positive year over year comparative same store sales could increase the risk of noncompliance with our bank EBITDA covenant. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. The success of our growth strategy will depend, in part, upon our ability to expand our franchise operations and joint ventures. The success of our franchise operations and joint ventures are dependent upon our ability to: • locate and attract new franchisees, joint venture opportunities and area developers; • maintain and enhance the “Sbarro” brand; • maintain satisfactory relations with our franchisees and partners who may, in certain instances, have interests adverse to our interests; • monitor and audit the reports and payments received from franchisees and/or partners; and • comply with applicable rules and regulations, as well as applicable laws in the foreign countries in which we seek and have, franchises, joint ventures and area development arrangements. With respect to foreign franchisees and joint ventures, we are also at risk with respect to: • restrictions that may be imposed upon the transfer of funds from those countries; • the political and economic stability of the country; and • the country’s relationship with the United States. Credit market effect on our franchise operations. Credit markets may adversely impact the ability of our franchisees to obtain financing to remodel or construct and open new restaurants, which may hinder our ability to achieve our franchise revenues and growth strategy. The credit markets continue to experience instability, resulting in declining real estate values, credit and liquidity concerns and increased loan default rates. Many lenders have subsequently reduced their willingness to make new loans and have tightened their credit requirements. -8- Table of Contents Our growth strategy requires us to extend the Sbarro concept into other high-pedestrian-traffic venues. Traditionally, Sbarro has operated in the quick service market featuring pizza, pasta and other hot and cold Italian entrees, principally in shopping malls. As the construction of new shopping malls in the United States has slowed, we have been seeking to expand our business into new settings, such as downtown areas, airports, casinos, universities and travel plazas. Our expansion requires us to: • make significant capital investments; • devote significant management time and effort; • develop budgets for, and monitor, food, beverage, labor, occupancy and other costs at levels that will produce profitable operations; and • budget and monitor the cost of construction of the restaurant. Further, limitations under the indenture governing the Senior Notes, our Senior Credit Facilities (defined below) and our Second Lien Facility (defined below) restrict the amount of investment we may make, which may limit certain of our growth efforts. We cannot be assured that we will be able to successfully expand our existing operations on a profitable basis. We operate in a highly competitive environment against strong competition. The restaurant business is highly competitive. We believe that we compete on the basis of price, service, location and food quality. There is also active competition for management personnel and attractive shopping mall, downtown and other commercial locations suitable for restaurants. We compete in each market in which we operate with locally-owned restaurants, and in certain cases, national and regional restaurant chains. Although we believe we are well positioned to compete because of our leading market position, focus and expertise in the quick-service Italian specialty food business and strong national brand name recognition, we could experience increased competition from existing or new companies and lose market share that, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and ability to service our debt obligations. The availability, quality and cost of our ingredients fluctuate, which affects our financial results. Significant increases in food and paper product costs, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers, could affect our financial results. Many of the factors in determining food and paper product prices, such as increases in the prices of the ingredients we use to prepare our foods, especially cheese and flour, and inflation are beyond our control. Furthermore, adverse weather and other conditions can cause shortages and interruptions in, and also could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of, the ingredients we use to prepare our foods. These events could adversely affect our financial results because we need to provide our customers with fresh products. Increases in labor and occupancy costs could impact our profitability. We have a substantial number of hourly employees whose wages are based on the federal or state minimum wage. Any increases in the federal or state minimum wage, as well as strong labor markets, can result in upward pressures on the wages and salaries we pay and could increase our labor costs. In addition, we have been experiencing higher occupancy related costs with respect to leases for new restaurants and renewal leases for existing restaurant space. Increases in our labor and occupancy costs could adversely affect our profitability if we are unable to recover these increases by increasing the prices we charge our customers or if we are unable to attract new customers. We are dependent on obtaining and retaining attractive high-pedestrian-traffic locations. We are dependent on our ability to enter into new leases and renew existing leases on favorable terms. We find it more expensive to enter into such leases during periods when market rents are, as they have been, increasing. There is also active competition for attractive commercial shopping mall, center city and other locations suitable for restaurants. As a result, as existing leases expire, we have not renewed some leases and have found it more expensive to continue to operate other existing locations. Although we believe that we will be able to renew the existing leases that we wish to extend, there is no assurance that we will succeed in obtaining extensions in the future at rental rates that we believe to be reasonable or at all. Moreover, if some locations should prove to be unprofitable, we could remain obligated for lease payments even if we decide to withdraw from those locations. -9- Table of Contents We will incur charges relating to the closing of such restaurants, consisting of lease termination costs. Impairment charges and other special charges will reduce our profits. Negative publicity relating to one of our restaurants, including our franchised restaurants, could reduce sales at some or all of our other restaurants. We are, from time to time, faced with negative publicity relating to food quality, restaurants facilities, health inspection scores, employee relationships or other matters at our restaurants or those of our franchisees. Adverse publicity may negatively affect us, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we incur any liability. In addition, the negative impact of adverse publicity relating to one restaurant may extend beyond the restaurants involved to affect some or all of our other restaurants. If a franchised restaurant fails to meet our franchise operating standards, our own restaurants could be adversely affected due to customer confusion or negative publicity. Food-borne illness incidents could result in liability to us and could reduce our restaurant sales. We cannot guarantee that our internal controls and training will be fully effective in preventing all food-borne illnesses. Furthermore, our reliance on third-party food processors makes it difficult to monitor food safety compliance and increases the risk that food-borne illness would affect multiple locations rather than single restaurants. Some food-borne illness incidents could be caused by third-party food suppliers and transporters outside of our control. New illnesses resistant to our current precautions may develop in the future, or diseases with long incubation periods could arise, such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy (“BSE”), sometimes referred to as “mad cow disease,” that could give rise to claims or allegations on a retroactive basis. In addition, the levels of chemicals or other contaminants that are currently considered safe in certain foods may be regulated more restrictively in the future or become the subject of public concern. The reach of food-related public health concerns can be considerable due to the level of attention given to these matters by the media. Local public health developments and concerns over diseases, including those caused by E. coli bacteria, could have an adverse impact on our sales. Similarly, concerns related to particular food constituents or the byproducts of cooking processes could also have an adverse impact. This could occur whether or not the developments are specifically attributable to our restaurants or those of our franchisees or competitors. We rely on one national independent wholesale distributor and replacing it could disrupt the flow of our food products and supplies. We use one national independent wholesale food distributor, under an agreement expiring in 2013, to purchase and deliver most of the food ingredients used to prepare the foods we serve, other than breads, pastries, produce, fresh dairy and certain meat products which are purchased locally for each restaurant. The distributor also purchases and delivers to us, on a national basis, restaurant supplies and certain other items that we use. The majority of spending on the products used in our restaurants is for proprietary products and we are involved in negotiating their cost with the manufacturers. While we are dependent upon this one national independent distributor, we believe that there are other distributors who would be able to service our needs. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to replace our distributor with others on comparable terms or without disruptions to the flow of our food products and other supplies to our systems. Our business is subject to governmental regulation. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws affecting our business, as are our franchisees. Each of our restaurants and those owned by our franchisees are subject to a variety of licensing and governmental regulatory provisions relating to wholesomeness of food, sanitation, health, safety and, in certain cases, licensing of the sale of alcoholic beverages. Difficulties in obtaining, or the failure to obtain, required licenses or approvals can delay or prevent the opening of a new restaurant in any particular area. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will remain in compliance with applicable laws or licenses that we have or will obtain, the failure of which by a restaurant could result in our loss of the restaurant’s license and even the closing of the restaurant. Regulations of the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) and various state laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises require us to furnish to prospective franchisees a franchise offering circular containing prescribed information. We are currently registered to offer and sell franchises in eight states and are currently exempt from the franchise registration requirements in six states based upon “large franchisor” exemptions. Additionally, we meet the disclosure filing requirements in one state. The states in which we are registered, and a number of states in which we may franchise, require registration of a franchise offering circular or a filing with state authorities. State franchise examiners have discretion to disapprove franchise registration applications based on a number of factors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to comply with these regulations. -10- Table of Contents We depend on our senior management and other key employees. Our success is dependent upon our senior management team. In recent years, we have added a significant number of independent executives to our management team. Our continued success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain key employees. As a privately-held company, we may be unable to offer key executives liquid stock-based compensation of the type that our publicly-held competitors can offer. There is no assurance that we will be able to retain our existing senior management or attract other key employees. We have employment agreements with several members of our Senior Management. Our results of operations fluctuate due to the seasonality of our business. Our revenues and earnings are highest in our fourth fiscal quarter primarily due to increased volume in shopping malls during the holiday shopping season. As a result, our annual revenues and earnings are substantially dependent upon the amount of traffic in shopping malls during the holiday shopping period. Changes in the level of traffic in shopping malls during this period have a disproportionate effect on our annual results of operations. A weak holiday shopping season, which could be caused by, among other factors, a downturn in the economy, an expansion of on-line shopping or adverse weather conditions, could adversely affect our profitability. Declines in our financial performance could result in additional intangible asset impairment charges in future periods. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require annual (or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances warrant) impairment tests of goodwill, certain intangible assets and other long-lived assets. Generally speaking, if the carrying value of the asset is in excess of the estimated fair value of the asset, the carrying value will be adjusted to fair value through an impairment charge. Fair value estimates are based primarily on discounted cash flows based on five-year forecasts of financial results that incorporate assumptions as to same-store sales trends, future development plans and brand-enhancing initiatives, among other things. During 2009, we recorded impairment charges of $6.7 million, $21.9 million and $2.9 million to reduce the carrying value of goodwill, trademarks and franchise relationships, respectively, to their estimated fair value at December 27, 2009. Significant underachievement of forecasted results could further reduce the estimated fair value of these assets, requiring non-cash impairment charges to further reduce the carrying value of these assets. See Note 11 - Provision for asset impairment and restaurant closings/remodels for non-intangible asset impairment charges. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our significant debt service obligations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make interest and principal payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash from operations. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements are not realized on schedule, in the amounts anticipated or at all, or if future borrowings are not available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled interest and principal payments on our debt obligations in the future, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, delay capital expenditures or seek additional equity. If we are unable to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or to effect any other action relating to our indebtedness on satisfactory terms or at all, our business may be harmed. We may not be successful in implementing our strategy of reducing operating costs and our cost reduction initiatives may have other adverse consequences. We are implementing initiatives to reduce our operating expenses. These initiatives include closing unprofitable stores, renegotiating store lease terms, reducing headcount, revising our recipes without affecting our customers, as well as other expense controls. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement all our cost reduction initiatives successfully. Even if we are successful in our cost reduction initiatives, we may face other risks associated with our plans, including declines in employee morale or the level of customer service we provide, the efficiency of our operations or the effectiveness of our internal controls. Any of these risks could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may not be able to protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to the development and protection of our trademarks and proprietary rights. However, the actions taken by us may be inadequate to prevent infringement or other unauthorized use of our trademarks and other proprietary rights by others, which may thereby dilute our trademarks in the marketplace and/or diminish the value of such proprietary rights. We may also -11- Table of Contents be unable to prevent others from claiming infringement or other unauthorized use of their trademarks and proprietary rights by us. In addition, others may assert rights in our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Our rights to our trademarks may in some cases be subject to the common law rights of any other person who began using the trademark (or a confusingly similar mark) prior to both the date of our registration and our first use of such trademarks in the relevant territory. We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert claims against our trademarks and other proprietary rights or that we will be able to successfully resolve such claims which could result in our inability to use certain trademarks or other proprietary rights in certain jurisdictions or in connection with certain goods or services. Future actions by third parties may diminish the strength of our trademarks or other proprietary rights, injure the goodwill associated with our business and decrease our competitive strength and performance. We could also incur substantial costs to defend or pursue legal actions relating to the use of our trademarks and other proprietary rights, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operation or financial condition. Employment and workplace-related complaints or litigation may hurt us. We are from time to time subject to employee claims alleging injuries, wage and hour violations, discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination. In recent years, a number of restaurant companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace, employment and similar matters. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are ultimately determined to be liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our financial performance. A significant judgment for any claim(s) could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We are controlled by MidOcean and its interests as an equity holder may conflict with our interests. As a result of the Merger, MidOcean, our equity sponsor, indirectly owns a majority of our common stock. Through its ownership, our equity sponsor will be able to, among other things, elect a majority of the members of our board of directors, appoint new management, amend our certificate of incorporation and approve mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. The interests of our equity sponsor might conflict with or differ from our interests. For example, the concentration of ownership held by MidOcean could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of the Company or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination, which the Company may otherwise view favorably. MidOcean is also free to pursue acquisition opportunities independent of us that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the Senior Notes and our other financial obligations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 27, 2009 and March 26, 2010, we had total indebtedness of $342.8 million. See Note 7 – Long-term debt to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to holders of our Senior Notes. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the notes; • make it more difficult to satisfy our other financial obligations; • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and • limit our ability to make future acquisitions. Despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur additional debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the indenture governing the Senior Notes, the Senior Credit Facilities and the Second Lien Facility do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. See Note 7 – Long-term debt to our Consolidated Financial Statements. As of March 26, 2010, we have $5.4 million of availability under the Senior Credit Facilities. Any borrowings under the Senior Credit Facilities and Second Lien Facility are effectively senior to the Senior Notes to the extent of the value of the assets securing the Senior Credit Facilities and Second Lien Facility. If new debt is added to our and/or our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. -12- Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 