ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.THIS REPORT CONTAINS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION RELATING TO US, OUR INDUSTRY AND TO OTHER BUSINESSES.This report contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are based upon the beliefs of our management, as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to our management. When used in this report, the words “estimate,” “project,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “expect” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause our actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in our forward-looking statements. We caution you not to place undue reliance upon such forward-looking statements, as our results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in the following risk factors section and elsewhere in this report. Any such statements are representative only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances subsequent to the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except for such updates to this report as are required by federal securities laws and such periodic reports as are required pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.Accordingly, you should consider carefully the following risk factors, in addition to the other information with respect to our business contained in this report.OUR BUSINESS IS DIFFICULT TO EVALUATE BECAUSE WE HAVE NO OPERATING BUSINESS AND OUR SHAREHOLDERS WILL NOT KNOW WHAT BUSINESS WE WILL ENTER INTO UNTIL WE CONSUMMATE A TRANSACTION.There is a risk that we will be unable to consummate a business combination. We have had no recent operating history nor any revenues or earnings from operations since 2005. While we have no significant assets or financial resources, in April 2012 we issued an 11% revolving credit promissory note in favor of Vector in the principal amount of up to $150,000, which was later amended to increase the available amount to $350,000, which we believe provides us with access to capital sufficient until we consummate a merger or other business combination. We will, in all likelihood, sustain operating expenses without corresponding revenues, at least until the consummation of a business combination. This may result in us incurring a net operating loss that will increase continuously until we can consummate a business combination with a profitable business opportunity. We cannot assure you that we can identify a suitable business opportunity and consummate a business combination. 6THERE CAN BE NO ASSURANCE THAT WE WILL BE ABLE TO FIND A SUITABLE ENTITY WITH WHICH TO ENTER INTO A BUSINESS COMBINATION TRANSACTION.We are in a highly competitive market for a small number of business opportunities which could reduce the likelihood of consummating a successful business combination. We will be an insignificant participant in the business of seeking mergers with, joint ventures with and acquisitions of small private and public entities. A large number of established and well-financed entities, including small public companies and venture capital firms, are active in mergers and acquisitions of companies that may be desirable target candidates for us. Nearly all these entities have significantly greater financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than we do; consequently, we will be at a competitive disadvantage in identifying possible business opportunities and successfully completing a business combination. These competitive factors may reduce the likelihood of us identifying and consummating a successful business combination. There can be no assurance that we will find a suitable entity with which to enter into a business combination transaction even if we do identify a suitable entity for such transaction, there can be no assurance that such entity would enter into such a transaction. IN VIEW OF THE FACT THAT THERE ARE NUMEROUS OTHER WAYS IN WHICH PRIVATE COMPANIES CAN BECOME PUBLIC OR RAISE CAPITAL, AND BECAUSE OF THE AVAILABILITY OF BLANK CHECK COMPANIES FOR BUSINESS COMBINATION TRANSACTIONS, THERE CAN BE NO ASSURANCE THAT THE TERMS OF A POTENTIAL BUSINESS COMBINATION TRANSACTION WOULD BE FAVORABLE TO US.Even if we find a suitable entity for a business combination transaction and that entity is willing to enter into such a transaction, there can be no assurance that we would be able to complete that transaction on terms which would be favorable to us. Private companies seeking to become public have many options other than a business combination with a blank check company, such as initial public offerings, direct public offerings, Regulation A offerings, public offerings on foreign exchanges, and business combinations with defunct public companies, and have many other options for access to capital other than becoming public, such as private offerings, Regulation S offerings, venture capital, and private equity transactions. The wide range of options available to such companies may result in those companies being able to require favorable terms from a blank check company in a business combination transaction, and may reduce the potential profitability to us of such a business combination transaction. In addition, there are a large number of blank check companies seeking to engage in business combination transactions, and the availability of such companies may result in private companies being able to require favorable terms from any particular blank check company in a business combination transaction, which may reduce the potential profitability to us of such a business combination transaction.OUR FUTURE SUCCESS IS HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON THE ABILITY OF MANAGEMENT TO LOCATE AND ATTRACT A SUITABLE ACQUISITION CANDIDATE.The nature of our operations is highly speculative. The success of our intended plan of operation will depend to a great extent on the operations, financial condition and management of the identified business opportunity. While management intends to seek business combination(s) with entities having established operating histories, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in locating candidates meeting that criterion. In the event we complete a business combination, the success of our operations may be dependent upon management of the successor firm or venture partner firm and numerous other factors beyond our control.WE HAVE NO EXISTING AGREEMENT FOR A BUSINESS COMBINATION OR OTHER TRANSACTION AND THERE IS NO GUARANTEE THAT WE WILL BE ABLE TO NEGOTIATE A TRANSACTION THAT WILL BENEFIT OUR SHAREHOLDERS.We have no arrangement, agreement or understanding with respect to engaging in a merger with, joint venture with or acquisition of, a private or public entity. No assurances can be given that we will successfully identify and evaluate suitable business opportunities or that we will conclude a business combination. Management has not identified 7any particular industry or specific business within an industry for evaluation. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to negotiate a business combination on favorable terms, and there is consequently a risk that funds allocated to the purchase of our shares will not be invested in a company with active business operations.MANAGEMENT INTENDS TO DEVOTE ONLY A LIMITED AMOUNT OF TIME TO SEEKING A TARGET COMPANY WHICH MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO IDENTIFY A SUITABLE ACQUISITION CANDIDATE.While seeking a business combination, management anticipates devoting very limited time to our affairs. Our officers and directors have not entered into written employment agreements with us and are not expected to do so in the foreseeable future. This limited commitment may adversely impact our ability to identify and consummate a successful business combination. THERE MAY BE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST BETWEEN OUR MANAGEMENT AND OUR NON-MANAGEMENT SHAREHOLDERS.Conflicts of interest create the risk that management may have an incentive to act adversely to the interests of other shareholders. A conflict of interest may arise between our management's personal pecuniary interests and their fiduciary duty to our shareholders. Further, our management's own pecuniary interest may at some point compromise its fiduciary duty to our shareholders. In addition, our officers and directors are currently and in the future shall be involved with other blank check companies and conflicts may arise in the pursuit of business combinations with such other blank check companies with which they are and may in the future be affiliated. Prospective business opportunities may not be offered to our management or its affiliates prior to being offered to us. This preference has been decided by management, however, it may be changed at management's discretion. In the future, after the close of a transaction, we do not anticipate that our current officers and directors will perform services in their current capacity.In order to minimize potential conflicts of interest which may arise because the Company's directors and officers also serve as the directors and officers of Multi Solutions II, Inc. each of the officers and directors of the Company has entered into an agreement with the Company and Multi Solutions II, Inc. whereby they have each agreed that the Company shall not analyze or consider any possible business combination opportunities until Multi Solutions II, Inc. has agreed to consummate a business combination.WE WILL NOT ANALYZE OR CONSIDER BUSINESS COMBINATION OPPORTUNITIES UNTIL MULTI SOLUTIONS II, INC. HAS AGREED TO CONSUMMATE A BUSINESS COMBINATION.In order to minimize potential conflicts of interest which may arise because our directors and officers also serve as the directors and officers of Multi Solutions II, Inc., we, Multi Solutions II, Inc. and each of our officers and directors have entered into an agreement pursuant to which we have agreed we will not analyze or consider any business combination opportunities until Multi Solutions II, Inc. has agreed to consummate a business combination. There can be no assurances that Multi Solutions II, Inc. will ever agree to consummate a business combination, and, accordingly, there can be no assurances that we will ever commence analyzing or considering business combination opportunities. WE ARE LIKELY SEEKING TO COMPLETE A BUSINESS COMBINATION THROUGH A "REVERSE MERGER". FOLLOWING SUCH A TRANSACTION WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ATTRACT THE ATTENTION OF MAJOR BROKERAGE FIRMS. Additional risks may exist because we will assist a privately held business to become public through a “reverse merger.” Securities analysts of major brokerage firms may not provide coverage of our securities because there is no incentive to brokerage firms to recommend the purchase of our common stock. There can be no assurance that brokerage firms will want to conduct any secondary offerings on behalf of our post-merger company in the future.8AS A BLANK CHECK COMPANY UNDER RULE 419 OF THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, WE WILL HAVE TO COMPLY WITH RULE 419 IN ANY SUBSEQUENT OFFERINGS.At present, we are a blank check company with no revenues and no specific business plan or purpose other than we intend to seek new business opportunities or to engage in a merger or acquisition with an unidentified company. As a blank check company, if we publicly offer any securities as a condition to the closing of any acquisition or business combination or otherwise, we will have to fully comply with Rule 419 under the Securities Act, the provisions of which apply to every registration statement filed under the Securities Act by a blank check company. Among other things, Rule 419 requires that the blank check company filing such registration statement deposit the securities being offered and proceeds of the offering into an escrow or trust account pending the execution of an agreement for an acquisition or merger. In addition, the registrant is required to file a post effective amendment to the registration statement containing the same information as found in a Form 10 registration statement, upon the execution of an agreement for such acquisition or merger. Rule 419 also provides for procedures for the release of the offering funds in conjunction with the post effective acquisition or merger. We have no current plans to engage in any such offerings.A BUSINESS COMBINATION WILL RESULT IN A CHANGE OF CONTROL AND A CHANGE OF MANAGEMENT.In conjunction with completion of a business acquisition, it is anticipated that we will issue an amount of our authorized but unissued common stock which represents the majority of the voting power and equity of our common stock, which will result in shareholders of a target company obtaining a controlling interest in us. As a condition of the business combination agreement, our current shareholders may agree to sell or transfer all or a portion of our common stock as to provide the target company with all or majority control. The resulting change in control will result in removal of our present officers and directors and a corresponding reduction in or elimination of their participation in any future affairs.OUR DIRECTORS HAVE THE RIGHT TO AUTHORIZE THE ISSUANCE OF PREFERRED STOCK.Our directors, without further action by our shareholders, have the authority to issue shares of preferred stock from time to time in one or more series and to fix the number of shares, the relative rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, liquidation preferences and any other preferences, special rights and qualifications of any such series. Any issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the rights of holders of common stock in that such preferred stock could have priority over the common stock with respect to voting, dividend or liquidation rights. Additionally, any future issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of the Company without further action by the shareholders and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of common stock. The issuance of shares of preferred stock, or the issuance of rights to purchase such shares, could be used to discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal. For instance, the issuance of a series of preferred stock might impede a business combination by including class voting rights that would enable the holder to block such a transaction, or facilitate a business combination by including voting rights that would provide a required percentage vote of the shareholders. Although our board of directors is required to make any determination to issue such stock based on its judgment as to the best interests of shareholders, our board of directors could act in a manner that would discourage an acquisition attempt or other transaction that potentially some, or a majority, of the shareholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which shareholders might receive a premium for their stock over the then market price of such stock. Our board of directors does not at present intend to seek shareholder approval prior to any issuance of currently authorized stock, unless otherwise required by law or stock exchange rules.THE TIME AND COST OF PREPARING A PRIVATE COMPANY TO BECOME A PUBLIC REPORTING COMPANY MAY PRECLUDE US FROM ENTERING INTO A MERGER OR ACQUISITION WITH THE MOST ATTRACTIVE PRIVATE COMPANIES.9Target companies that fail to comply with SEC reporting requirements may delay or preclude an acquisition. Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act require reporting companies to provide certain information about significant acquisitions, including certified financial statements for the company acquired, covering one, two, or three years, depending on the relative size of the acquisition. The time and additional costs that may be incurred by some target entities to prepare these statements may significantly delay or essentially preclude consummation of an acquisition. Otherwise suitable acquisition prospects that do not have or are unable to obtain the required audited financial statements may be inappropriate for acquisition so long as the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act are applicable.WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO FURTHER GOVERNMENT REGULATION WHICH WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS.Although we will be subject to the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act, management believes we will not be subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "Investment Company Act"), since we will not be engaged in the business of investing or trading in securities. If we engage in business combinations which result in our holding passive investment interests in a number of entities, we could be subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. If so, we would be required to register as an investment company and could be expected to incur significant registration and compliance costs. We have obtained no formal determination from the SEC as to our status under the Investment Company Act and, consequently, violation of the Investment Company Act could subject us to material adverse consequences. ANY POTENTIAL ACQUISITION OR MERGER WITH A FOREIGN COMPANY MAY SUBJECT US TO ADDITIONAL RISKS.If we enter into a business combination with a foreign company, we will be subject to risks inherent in business operations outside of the United States. These risks include, for example, currency fluctuations, regulatory problems, punitive tariffs, unstable local tax policies, trade embargoes, risks related to shipment of raw materials and finished goods across national borders and cultural and language differences. Foreign economies may differ favorably or unfavorably from the United States economy in growth of gross national product, rate of inflation, market development, rate of savings, and capital investment, resource self-sufficiency and balance of payments positions, and in other respects.THERE IS CURRENTLY NO TRADING MARKET FOR OUR COMMON STOCK, AND LIQUIDITY OF SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK IS LIMITED.Our shares of common stock are not registered under the securities laws of any state or other jurisdiction, and accordingly there is no public trading market for our common stock. Further, no public trading market is expected to develop in the foreseeable future unless and until we complete a business combination with an operating business and we thereafter file a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (The "Securities Act"). Therefore, outstanding shares of our common stock cannot be offered, sold, pledged or otherwise transferred unless subsequently registered pursuant to, or exempt from registration under, the Securities Act and any other applicable federal or state securities laws or regulations. Compliance with the criteria for securing exemptions under federal securities laws and the securities laws of the various states is extremely complex, especially in respect of those exemptions affording flexibility and the elimination of trading restrictions in respect of securities received in exempt transactions and subsequently disposed of without registration under the Securities Act or state securities laws.10THERE ARE ISSUES IMPACTING LIQUIDITY OF OUR SECURITIES WITH RESPECT TO THE FACT THAT WE WILL NEED TO FILE A RESALE REGISTRATION STATEMENT TO CREATE LIQUIDITY IN OUR COMMON STOCK.Since our shares of common stock issued prior to a business combination or reverse merger cannot currently, nor will they for a considerable period of time after we complete a business combination, be available to be offered, sold, pledged or otherwise transferred without being registered pursuant to the Securities Act, we may file a resale registration statement on Form S-1 or some other available form to register for resale such shares of common stock. We cannot control this future registration process in all respects as some matters are outside our control. Even if we are successful in causing the effectiveness of the resale registration statement, there can be no assurances that the occurrence of subsequent events may not preclude our ability to maintain the effectiveness of the registration statement. Any of the foregoing items could have adverse effects on the liquidity of our shares of common stock.WE HAVE NEVER PAID DIVIDENDS ON OUR COMMON STOCK AND IF WE DO NOT PAY DIVIDENDS IN THE FUTURE THEN OUR SHAREHOLDERS CAN ONLY BENEFIT FROM THEIR SHARES BY SELLING SUCH STOCK EITHER IN THE PUBLIC MARKET PLACE OR IN A PRIVATE TRANSACTION. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not presently intend to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that any funds available for payment of dividends will be re-invested into us to further our business strategy.WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN TAX CONSEQUENCES IN OUR BUSINESS, WHICH MAY INCREASE OUR COST OF DOING BUSINESS.We may not be able to structure our acquisition to result in tax-free treatment for the companies or their shareholders, which could deter third parties from entering into certain business combinations with us or result in being taxed on consideration received in a transaction. Currently, a transaction may be structured so as to result in tax-free treatment to both companies, as prescribed by various federal and state tax provisions. We intend to structure any business combination so as to minimize the federal and state tax consequences to both us and the target entity; however, we cannot guarantee that the business combination will meet the statutory requirements of a tax-free reorganization or that the parties will obtain the intended tax-free treatment upon a transfer of stock or assets. A non-qualifying reorganization could result in the imposition of both federal and state taxes that may have an adverse effect on both parties to the transaction.OUR BUSINESS WILL HAVE NO REVENUE UNLESS AND UNTIL WE MERGE WITH OR ACQUIRE AN OPERATING BUSINESS.We have had no recent operating history nor any revenues or earnings from operations since 2005. We will not realize any revenue unless and until we successfully merge with or acquire an operating business.WE INTEND TO ISSUE MORE SHARES IN A MERGER OR ACQUISITION, WHICH WILL RESULT IN SUBSTANTIAL DILUTION.Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of a maximum of 200,000,000 shares of common stock and a maximum of 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Any merger or acquisition effected by us may result in the issuance of additional securities without shareholder approval and may result in substantial dilution in the percentage of our common stock held by our then existing shareholders. Moreover, the common stock issued in any such merger or acquisition transaction may be valued on an arbitrary or non-arm's-length basis by our management, resulting in an additional reduction in the percentage of common stock held by our then existing shareholders. Our board of directors has the power to issue any or all of such authorized but unissued shares without shareholder approval. To the extent that additional shares of common stock or preferred stock are issued in connection with a business combination or otherwise, dilution to the interests of our shareholders will occur and the rights of the holders of common stock might be materially adversely affected.11WE HAVE NOT CONDUCTED MARKET RESEARCH OR IDENTIFIED ANY BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES, WHICH MAY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO IDENTIFY A BUSINESS TO MERGE WITH OR ACQUIRE.We have not conducted market research concerning prospective business opportunities, nor have others made the results of such market research available to us. Our management has not identified any specific business combination or other transactions for formal evaluation by us, such that it may be expected that any such target business or transaction will present such a level of risk that conventional private or public offerings of securities or conventional bank financing will not be available. There is no assurance that we will be able to acquire a business opportunity on terms favorable to us. Decisions as to which business opportunity to participate in will be unilaterally made by our management, which may act without the consent, vote or approval of our shareholders.OUR SHARES MAY BE SUBJECT TO THE "PENNY STOCK" RULES, FOLLOWING A REVERSE MERGER TRANSACTION, WHICH MIGHT SUBJECT OUR SHAREHOLDERS TO RESTRICTIONS ON MARKETABILITY AND THEY MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SELL THEIR SHARES.If our common stock becomes tradable in the secondary market, we will be subject to the penny stock rules adopted by the SEC that require brokers to provide extensive disclosure to their customers prior to executing trades in penny stocks. These disclosure requirements may cause a reduction in the trading activity of our common stock, which in all likelihood would make it difficult for our shareholders to sell their securities.Additional risks may exist since we may assist a privately held business to become public through a "reverse merger." Securities analysts of major brokerage firms may not provide coverage of us since there is no incentive to brokerage firms to recommend the purchase of our common stock. No assurance can be given that brokerage firms will want to conduct any secondary offerings on behalf of our post-merger company in the future. Failure to develop or maintain an active trading market for our common stock will have a generally negative effect on the price of our common stock and our shareholders may be unable to sell their common stock or any attempted sale of such common stock may have the effect of lowering the market price, which could result in a partial or complete loss of their investment.Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the NASDAQ system). Penny stock rules require a broker- dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. The broker- dealer must also make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity, if any, in the secondary market for a security that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our securities, which could severely limit the market price and liquidity of our securities. These requirements may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and may affect our shareholders' ability to resell our common stock.WE CANNOT ASSURE YOU THAT FOLLOWING A BUSINESS COMBINATION WITH AN OPERATING BUSINESS, OUR COMMON STOCK WILL BE LISTED ON NASDAQ OR ANY OTHER SECURITIES EXCHANGE AND THEREFORE IT IS POSSIBLE THAT OUR SHAREHOLDERS WILL NOT BE ABLE TO LIQUIDATE THEIR INVESTMENT IN OUR STOCK AND WE MAY NOT HAVE ACCESS TO CAPITAL AVAILABLE TO COMPANIES TRADING ON THESE EXCHANGES.Following a business combination, we may seek the listing of our common stock on NASDAQ or the NYSE MKT. However, we cannot assure you that following such a transaction, we will be able to meet the initial listing 12standards of either of those or any other stock exchange, or that we will be able to maintain a listing of our common stock on either of those or any other stock exchange. The NASDAQ, NYSE, and NYSE MKT recently adopted a “seasoning” requirement for the listing of former reverse merger companies, which includes trading in another market for an adequate period of time at certain minimum price levels, with an adequate number of round lot shareholders and completing SEC filings during this time, although there is an exception to this requirement for firmly underwritten public offerings of at least $40 million. We may be unable to comply with seasoning requirements for listing prior to the listing deadline and we may be unable to qualify for the $40 million exception, which could adversely impact our ability to access U.S. stock exchanges. If an active trading market for our shares does not develop, the value and liquidity of our shares will be materially and adversely affected. After completing a business combination, until our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ or another stock exchange, we expect that our common stock would be eligible to trade on the OTC Bulletin Board, another over-the-counter quotation system, or on the "pink sheets," where our shareholders may find it more difficult to dispose of shares or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock. In addition, we would be subject to an SEC rule that, if it failed to meet the criteria set forth in such rule, imposes various practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities governed by the rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, such rule may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling our common stock, which may further affect our common stock's liquidity. This would also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital following a business combination.OUR AUTHORIZATION OF BLANK CHECK PREFERRED STOCK COULD BE USED TO DISCOURAGE A TAKE-OVER TRANSACTION INVOLVING AN ACTUAL OR POTENTIAL CHANGE IN CONTROL OF US OR OUR MANAGEMENT.Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences to be determined from time to time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting, or other rights which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of the common stock. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of our authorized preferred stock, there can be no assurance that we will not do so in the future.DUE TO THE CONTROL BY MANAGEMENT AND OUR PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDER OF 65.9% OF OUR OUTSTANDING COMMON STOCK, OUR NON-MANAGEMENT SHAREHOLDERS WILL HAVE LITTLE POWER TO CHOOSE MANAGEMENT OR IMPACT OPERATIONS.Management and our principal shareholder currently control and vote an aggregate of 65.9% of our issued and outstanding common stock. Our management consists of J. Bryant Kirkland III, President, CEO and Chairman of our board of directors, Deborah Fasanelli, Secretary, Treasurer, and CFO, Robert L. Frome, director, and Robert M. Lundgren, director. Mr. Kirkland and Ms. Fasanelli serve as Vice President and Controller, respectively, of Vector, our majority shareholder, although neither has investment authority or voting control over the securities owned by Vector. Consequently, management, along with our principal shareholder, acting together, have the ability to influence control of our operations and will have the ability to influence or control substantially all matters submitted to shareholders for approval, including:•Election of the board of directors;•Removal of directors;•Amendment to the our articles of incorporation or bylaws; and13•Adoption of measures that could delay or prevent a change in control or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination.These shareholders will thus have substantial influence over our management and affairs and other shareholders possess no practical ability to remove management or effect the operations of our business. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership by itself may have the effect of impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business consolidation, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.