ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the following occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could also decline. These risk factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. Management cannot predict such developments, nor can it assess the impact, if any, of such new risk factors on our business or events described in any forward-looking statements. The airline industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid change. We may be unable to compete effectively against other airlines with greater financial resources or lower operating costs, or to adjust rapidly enough in the event the nature of competition in our markets changes. The airline industry is highly competitive as to fares, flight frequency, frequent flyer benefits, routes and service. The industry is particularly susceptible to price discounting because airlines incur only nominal costs to provide service to passengers occupying otherwise unsold seats. Recently, airlines have reduced routes and the number of planes available, which has resulted in reduced industry capacity and a trend towards increased fares. If airlines decide to increase their capacity in the future, this could cause fares to decline, which may adversely 13 Table of Contents affect our business and results of operations. Many of our competitors are larger than our airlines and therefore, may have significantly greater financial resources and name recognition or lower operating costs than we do. In addition, competitors who successfully reorganize out of bankruptcy could have lower operating costs derived from renegotiated labor, supply and financing agreements. In the past, some of these competitors have chosen from time to time to add service, reduce their fares, or take other such competitive steps, in our key markets. We may be unable to compete effectively against such other airlines that introduce service or discounted fares in the markets that we serve. The airline industry, and particularly regional airlines like Horizon, also faces competition from ground transportation alternatives, such as buses, trains or automobiles. The U.S. and Mexico recently amended their bilateral agreement relating to commercial air service. The amendments expand authorized service levels to cities we serve in Mexico. Other airlines will likely seek to add service to some of the city pairs we currently serve, which will increase competition and potentially negatively affect our results of operations. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations are substantially exposed to the current high prices and variability of jet fuel. Further increases in jet fuel costs would harm our business. Fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our total operating expenses, accounting for 26% and 20% of total operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Significant increases in fuel costs during the past several years have negatively affected our results of operations. Further increases would harm our financial condition and results of operations. Based on historical trends, we estimate that a one-cent increase in our economic price per gallon of fuel increases our fuel expenses by approximately $4.0 million annually. Historically, fuel costs and availability have been unpredictable and subject to wide price fluctuations based on geopolitical issues and supply and demand. We have not generally been able to increase fares to offset increases in the price of fuel until recently and we may not be able to do so in the future. We utilize fuel hedges as a form of insurance against the volatility of fuel prices. To manage the risk of fuel price increases, we purchase call options that are designed to cap a portion of our fuel costs at designated per-barrel oil prices. Even with hedges, we are substantially and increasingly exposed to increases in jet fuel costs as the amount of fuel consumption we have hedged declines and the price at which we are hedged increases. A significant increase in labor costs or change in key personnel could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We compete against the major U.S. airlines and other businesses for labor in many highly skilled positions. If we are unable to hire, train and retain qualified employees at a reasonable cost, or if we lose the services of key personnel, we may be unable to grow or sustain our business. In such case, our operating results and business prospects could be harmed. We may also have difficulty replacing management or other key personnel who leave and, therefore, the loss of any of these individuals could harm our business. Labor costs are a significant component of our total expenses, accounting for approximately 27% and 32% of our total operating expenses in 2006 and 2005, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, labor unions represented approximately 84% of Alaska’s and 49% of Horizon’s employees. Each of our represented employee groups has a separate collective bargaining agreement, and could make demands that would increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our financial performance. Uncertainty around open contracts could be a distraction to many employees, reduce employee engagement in our business and divert management’s attention from other projects. Disengaged employees could prevent us from achieving the operational improvements in completion rate and on-time performance that we seek. 14 Table of Contents In 2005, Alaska and the Air Line Pilots Association (ALPA) were unable to reach a new agreement, and therefore, pursuant to the terms of the collective bargaining agreement that existed at the time, the parties submitted the agreement to binding arbitration. That arbitration decision, which was effective May 1, 2005, resulted in an average pilot wage reduction of 26%. That contract is amendable on May 1, 2007, although we are already in negotiations with ALPA. Horizon is also in negotiations with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters on a new pilot agreement. The Horizon pilot contract became amendable in September 2006. Factoring in pay rates, productivity measures, and pension and postretirement medical benefits, we believe our pilot unit costs at both Alaska and Horizon are among the highest in the industry for the size of aircraft operated. Our continuing obligation to fund our traditional defined-benefit pension plans could negatively affect our ability to compete in the marketplace. This is because some of our competitors either have eliminated such obligations through bankruptcy, or have never had traditional pension plans in place. Currently, all of our defined-benefit pension plans are closed to new entrants, with the exception of the plan covering Alaska’s pilots. Finally, to the extent we are unable to maintain the outsourcing or subcontracting of certain services for our business, we would incur substantial costs, including costs associated with hiring new employees, in order to perform these services in-house. Alaska is transitioning to a single fleet. This transition may be more costly than we expect, or we may not realize the savings we hope to achieve. In 2006, Alaska announced a transition to an all-Boeing 737 fleet. As part of this transition, we accelerated the retirement of our MD-80 fleet so that these aircraft will be out of our operating fleet by the end of 2008. We recorded an impairment charge on our owned MD-80s in 2006 to write the assets down to their estimated fair market value. Additionally, we bought five of our leased MD-80s from the lessors, resulting in further impairment charges. We likely will incur additional similar charges in the future related to four of our remaining leased MD-80 aircraft as we expect to cease operations of those aircraft earlier than their respective lease termination dates. We also may have to recognize additional charges upon the sale of any of our MD-80 aircraft if the proceeds from any sale are less than the carrying value of the aircraft. These charges would negatively affect our financial performance. The market value of MD-80 aircraft fluctuates and is highly dependent on factors beyond our control, including the number of aircraft available in the market, fleet changes by other airlines, and demand for those aircraft by other carriers. If we are unable to sell our owned MD-80s, or return or sublease the leased aircraft, we would also incur storage charges. In addition to the gains or losses that may result on the final disposal of these aircraft, our savings from a single fleet type may not be as large as we expect if we are unable to remove all of the structural costs that support multiple fleet types across our operation. Our failure to successfully implement Alaska’s growth strategy and related cost-reduction goals could harm our business. Alaska’s growth strategy involves operating additional Boeing 737-800 aircraft, increasing the frequency of flights to markets we currently serve, expanding into new markets and increasing flight connection opportunities. It is critical that we achieve our growth strategy in order for our business to attain economies of scale and to sustain or improve our results of operations. If we are unable to hire and retain skilled personnel or to secure the required equipment and facilities, or if we are not able to otherwise successfully implement our growth strategy, our business and operations could be adversely affected. We continue to strive toward aggressive cost-reduction goals that are an important part of our business strategy of offering the best value to passengers through competitive fares while at the same time achieving acceptable profit margins and return on capital. We believe having a lower cost structure better positions us to be 15 Table of Contents able to fund our growth strategy and take advantage of market opportunities. If we are unable to further reduce our non-fuel unit costs, we likely likely not be able to achieve our growth plan and our financial results therefore may suffer. Our indebtedness and other fixed obligations could increase the volatility of earnings and otherwise restrict our activities. We have, and will continue to have for the foreseeable future, a significant amount of indebtedness. Due to our high fixed costs, including aircraft lease commitments and debt service, a decrease in revenues results in a disproportionately greater decrease in earnings. As of both December 31, 2006 and 2005, we had approximately $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion of indebtedness outstanding, respectively, approximately $1.1 billion and $859 million of which was secured by flight equipment and real property. In addition to long-term debt, we have significant other fixed obligations under operating leases related to our aircraft, airport terminal space, other airport facilities and office space. As of December 31, 2006, future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases with initial or remaining terms in excess of one year were approximately $1.1 billion for 2007 through 2011 and an aggregate of $680.6 million for the years thereafter. As of December 31, 2006, we had commitments totaling $1.2 billion to purchase 51 additional aircraft through 2011. Although we have secured financing for a number of these commitments, there is no guarantee that additional financing will be available when required. Our inability to secure the financing could have a material adverse effect on our cash balances or result in delays in or our inability to take delivery of aircraft, which would impair our growth or fleet-simplification plans. Our outstanding indebtedness and other fixed obligations could have important consequences. For example, they could: • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for funding our growth strategy, capital expenditures, acquisitions, working capital or other purposes; • require us to dedicate a material portion of our operating cash flow to fund lease payments and interest payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available for other purposes; and • limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including reacting to any economic slowdown in the airline industry. We cannot ensure that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow from our operations to pay our debt and other fixed obligations as they become due. If we fail to do so, our business could be harmed. Alaska is required to comply with specific financial covenants in certain agreements. We cannot be certain now that Alaska will be able to comply with these covenants or provisions or that these requirements will not limit our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs. Our operations are often affected by factors beyond our control, including changing economic and other conditions, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Like other airlines, our operations often are affected by changes in economic and other conditions caused by factors largely beyond our control, including: • economic recession, interest rate increases, inflation, international or domestic conflicts, terrorist activity, or other changes in economic or business conditions; • air traffic congestion at airports or other air traffic control problems; • adverse weather conditions; and • increased security measures or breaches in security. 16 Table of Contents Delays and cancellations frustrate passengers, reduce aircraft utilization and increase costs, all of which affect our profitability. Due to our geographic area of operations, we believe a significant portion of our operation is more susceptible to adverse weather conditions than that of many of our competitors. Any general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of any of the above-mentioned factors could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a few key markets to be successful. Our strategy is to focus on serving a few key markets, including Seattle, Portland, Los Angeles and Anchorage. A significant portion of our flights occurs to and from our Seattle hub. In 2006, traffic to and from Seattle accounted for 63% of our total traffic. We believe that concentrating our service offerings in this way allows us to maximize our investment in personnel, aircraft, and ground facilities, as well as to gain greater advantage from sales and marketing efforts in those regions. As a result, we remain highly dependent on our key markets. Our business would be harmed by any circumstances causing a reduction in demand for air transportation in our key markets. An increase in competition in our key markets could also cause us to reduce fares or take other competitive measures that could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The airline industry continues to face potential security concerns and related costs. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and their aftermath have negatively affected the airline industry, including our company. More recently, the foiled terror plot in the United Kingdom in August 2006 resulted in new security measures that also impacted our company. Additional terrorist attacks, the fear of such attacks or other hostilities involving the U.S. could have a further significant negative effect on the airline industry, including us, and could: • significantly reduce passenger traffic and yields due to a potentially dramatic drop in demand for air travel; • significantly increase security and insurance costs; • make war risk or other insurance unavailable or extremely expensive; • increase fuel costs and the volatility of fuel prices; • increase costs from airport shutdowns, flight cancellations and delays resulting from security breaches and perceived safety threats; and • result in a grounding of commercial air traffic by the FAA. The occurrence of any of these events would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Immediately following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, aviation insurers dramatically increased airline insurance premiums and significantly reduced the insurance coverage available to airlines for third-party claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events to $50 million per event and in the aggregate. In light of this development, under the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act and the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as most recently amended by the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2006, the U.S. government continues to offer domestic airlines either (i) third-party liability war risk coverage above $50 million, or (ii) in lieu of commercial war risk insurance, full hull, comprehensive and third-party liability war risk coverage. This coverage provides for the same limits of war and allied perils coverage for hull and comprehensive insurance and twice the limits of third-party liability insurance carried by the airline on September 11, 2001. 17 Table of Contents Although, in 2006, our insurance costs have decreased to pre-2001 levels, aviation insurers could increase their premiums again in the event of additional terrorist attacks, hijackings, airline accidents or other events adversely affecting the airline industry. Furthermore, the full hull, comprehensive and third-party war risk insurance provided by the government is currently mandated through September 30, 2007. Although the government may extend the deadline for providing such coverage, we cannot be certain that any extension will occur, or if it does, for how long the extension will last. It is expected that, should the government stop providing such coverage to the airline industry, the premiums charged by aviation insurers for this coverage will be substantially higher than the premiums currently charged by the government and the coverage will be much more limited, including smaller aggregate limits and shorter cancellation periods (i.e. 7 days or, in the case of certain events, a lesser period, including immediate termination). Significant increases in insurance premiums would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in government regulation imposing additional requirements and restrictions on our operations or on the airports at which we operate could increase our operating costs and result in service delays and disruptions. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal requirements, both domestically and internationally, that involve significant compliance costs. In the last several years, Congress has passed laws, and the U.S. Department of Transportation, the Transportation Security Administration and the Federal Aviation Administration (the “FAA”) have issued regulations, relating to the maintenance and operation of airlines that have required significant expenditures. For example, the FAA has issued regulations covering, among other things, security measures, collision avoidance systems, noise abatement, environmental restrictions, safety procedures and maintenance regulations. Similarly, many aspects of an airline’s operations are subject to increasingly stringent federal, state and local laws protecting the environment. Because of significantly higher security and other costs incurred by airports since September 11, 2001, many airports have increased their rates and charges to air carriers. Additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce the demand for air travel. Although law makers may impose these additional fees and view them as “pass-through” costs, we believe that a higher total ticket price will influence consumer purchase and travel decisions and may result in an overall decline in passenger traffic, which would harm our business. Our reputation and financial results could be harmed in the event of an airline accident or incident. An accident or incident involving one of our aircraft could involve a significant loss of life and result in a loss of faith in our airlines by the flying public. In addition, we could experience significant potential claims from injured passengers and surviving relatives, as well as costs for the repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its consequential temporary or permanent loss from service. Although we strive to maintain the highest standards of safety and reliability and believe that should an accident or incident, nevertheless occur, we also currently maintain liability insurance in amounts and of the type generally consistent with industry practice. However, the amount of such coverage may not be adequate and we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of our related insurance coverage would harm our business and financial results. Moreover, any aircraft accident or incident, even if fully insured and even if it does not involve one of our airlines, could cause a public perception that our airlines or the equipment they fly is less safe or reliable than other transportation alternatives, which would harm our business. We rely heavily on automated systems to operate our business and a failure of these systems or by their operators could harm our business. We depend on automated systems to operate our business, including our computerized airline reservation system, our telecommunication systems, our website, our maintenance systems, and other systems. Substantially all of our tickets are issued to passengers as electronic tickets. We depend on our computerized reservation system to be able to issue, track and accept these electronic tickets. In order for our operations to work 18 Table of Contents efficiently, our website and reservation system must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic, maintain secure information, and deliver important flight information. Substantial or repeated website, reservations system or telecommunication systems failures could reduce the attractiveness of our services and cause our customers to purchase tickets from another airline. In addition, we rely on other automated systems for crew scheduling, flight dispatch, and other operational needs. Disruption in, changes to, or a breach of these systems could result in the loss of important data, increase our expenses and possibly cause us to temporarily cease our operations. We rely on partner airlines for codeshare and frequent flyer marketing arrangements. Alaska and Horizon are parties to marketing agreements with a number of domestic and international air carriers, or “partners,” including but not limited to American Airlines, Continental Airlines, Delta Airlines and Northwest Airlines. These agreements provide that certain flight segments operated by us are held out as partner “codeshare” flights and that certain partner flights are held out for sale as Alaska codeshare flights. In addition, the agreements generally provide that members of Alaska’s Mileage Plan program can earn miles on or redeem miles for partner flights and vice versa. We receive a significant amount of revenue from flights sold under codeshare arrangements. In addition, we believe that the frequent flyer arrangements are an important part of our Mileage Plan program. The loss of a significant partner or certain partner flights could have a negative effect on our revenues or the attractiveness of our Mileage Plan, which we believe is a source of competitive advantage. In September 2005, both Northwest and Delta filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code and both plan to exit sometime in 2007. Although Delta has already filed a reorganization plan that does not include termination of our codeshare arrangement, Northwest could propose a plan of reorganization that would seek to modify or terminate some or all of these agreements. We rely on third-party vendors for certain critical activities. We have historically relied on outside vendors for a variety of services and functions critical to our business, including airframe and engine maintenance, ground handling, fueling, computer reservation system hosting and software maintenance. As part of our cost reduction efforts, our reliance on outside vendors has increased and may continue to do so in the future. In recent years, Alaska has subcontracted its heavy aircraft maintenance, fleet service, facilities maintenance, and ground handling services at certain airports, including Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, to outside vendors. Our increased use of outside vendors increases our exposure to several risks. In the event that one or more vendors goes into bankruptcy, ceases operation or fails to perform as promised, replacement services may not be readily available at competitive rates, or at all. Although we believe that our vendor oversight and quality control is among the best in the industry, if one of our vendors fails to perform adequately we may experience increased costs, delays, maintenance issues, safety issues or negative public perception of our airline. In late 2005 and early 2006, Alaska experienced a number of negative press reports following several aircraft incidents in Seattle. The Company has taken steps to increase supervision and training of vendor personnel in order to reduce the risk of further incidents and negative publicity. Vendor bankruptcies, unionization, regulatory compliance issues or significant changes in the competitive marketplace among suppliers could adversely affect vendor services or force Alaska to renegotiate existing agreements on less favorable terms. These events could result in disruptions in Alaska’s operations or increases in its cost structure. We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for aircrafts and parts. Alaska is dependent on Boeing as its sole supplier for aircraft and many aircraft parts. Horizon is similarly dependent on Bombardier. As a result, we are more vulnerable to any problems associated with the supply of those aircraft and parts, including design defects, mechanical problems, contractual performance by the manufacturers, or adverse perception by the public that would result in customer avoidance or in actions by the FAA resulting in an inability to operate our aircraft. Carriers that operate a more diversified fleet are better positioned than we are to manage such events. 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to redeploy aircraft returning from Frontier JetExpress operations in a timely manner, which could negatively impact our financial performance. Horizon operates regional jet service branded as Frontier JetExpress with Frontier Airlines that began in January 2004, but that is currently in the process of being discontinued. Nine CRJ-700 aircraft will be returned to Horizon’s operating fleet in 2007. In 2006, this service represented approximately 23% of Horizon’s total capacity and approximately 8% of Horizon’s passenger revenue. If we are unable to redeploy the capacity from these aircraft into our system, we could lose associated revenues thereby adversely affecting our results of operations and financial performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 