ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company's business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks. Some of these risks are described below. This section does not describe all risks that may be applicable to the Company, the Company's industry, or the Company's business, and it is intended only as a summary of certain material risk factors. The Company's products are used in the production of a variety of highly complex electronic products manufactured for the military and for commercial use. Accordingly, demand for the Company's products is highly dependent upon demand for the products in which they are used. From time to time, including the first half of fiscal year 2004, the Company's results have been negatively impacted by a general decrease in demand for technology and electronic products in the United States and abroad. There can be no assurance that, if demand for such products declines, it will increase again or that, even if it does increase, the demand for the Company's products will increase. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will not receive order cancellations after orders are booked into backlog. Moreover, a majority of the Company's costs are fixed, and the Company may not be able to reduce costs if sales volumes were to decline. The Company produces and ships product based upon orders received from its customers. If these orders are cancelled prior to shipment, it could affect the Company's profitability. See "Item 1. BUSINESS -- CUSTOMERS AND MARKETING." The Company offers a broad variety of products to its customers. Gross margins can vary significantly from product to product and across product lines. Accordingly, a change in the mix of products sold by the Company during a particular period could lead to distinctly different financial results for that period as compared to other periods. The Company expects that international sales will continue to constitute a substantial portion of its total sales. These sales expose the Company to certain risks, including, without limitation, barriers to trade, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates (which may make the Company's products less price competitive), political and economic instability, changes in monetary policy, tariff regulations and other United States and foreign laws and regulations that may apply to the export of the Company's products, as well as the generally greater difficulties of doing business abroad. 10 During fiscal year 2006, the Company's ten largest customers accounted for approximately 25% of net sales. The Company expects that sales to a relatively small number of customers will continue to account for a significant portion of its net sales for the foreseeable future. A loss of one or more of such key customers could affect the Company's profitability. Moreover, an increasing amount of the Company's sales are to contract manufacturers. Several contract manufacturers to whom the Company sells parts could be selling their products to the same end customer. The discontinued use of these contract manufacturers' products (or of their products which incorporate the Company's parts) by the end customer could affect the Company's profitability. See "Item 1. BUSINESS -- CUSTOMERS AND MARKETING." The technology upon which the Company's products are based is subject to continuous development of materials and processes. The Company's business is in large part contingent upon the continuous refinement of its technological and engineering expertise and the development of new or enhanced products and technologies to meet the rapidly developing demands of new applications and increased competition. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to be successful in its efforts to develop new or refine existing products, that such new products will meet with anticipated levels of market acceptance or that the Company will otherwise be able to timely identify and respond to technological improvements made by its competitors. Significant technological breakthroughs by others could also have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. The Company's business may be adversely affected by difficulties in obtaining raw materials and other items needed for the production of its products, the effects of quality deviations in raw materials and fluctuations in prices of such materials. Palladium, a precious metal used in the production of the Company's capacitors, is currently available from a limited number of metal dealers who obtain product from the Republic of South Africa or the Russian Federation. A prolonged cessation or reduction of exports of palladium by the Republic of South Africa or the Russian Federation, or a significant increase in the price of palladium, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. See "Item 1. BUSINESS -- RAW MATERIALS" and "Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS." Certain raw materials used by the Company may fluctuate in price. To the extent that the Company is unable to pass on increases in the costs of such materials to its customers, this may adversely affect the gross profit margins of those products using such materials. At times, the Company will enter into contracts to purchase certain raw materials in the future at agreed upon prices in order to protect against shortages and rising prices. If the Company were to do so and prices were to decline, the Company would be required to purchase such raw materials at or above market prices which would also negatively impact gross profit margins. Competition in the MLC industry is intense and, in general, is based primarily on price. In the RF/Microwave market segments, where price has historically been less important, competition has been based primarily on high performance product specifications, achieving consistent product reliability, fast deliveries and high levels of customer service. The Company competes with a number of large MLC manufacturers who have broader product lines and greater financial, marketing and technical resources than the Company. Growth of some commercial market applications has increased, and is expected to continue to increase, the competitive importance of price. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to improve the productivity and efficiency of its manufacturing processes in order to respond to pricing pressures, or to successfully design new processes and products; and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. The Company produces hazardous wastes in the production of its capacitors. Accordingly, the inherent risks of environmental liability and remediation costs associated with the Company's manufacturing operations may result in substantial unforeseen liabilities. The Company is also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws regulating or prohibiting the use of certain materials in the manufacture of its products. As part of its research and development efforts, the Company continues to develop and test new materials and products designed to comply with these laws. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to develop replacement materials or products for those which may become prohibited in the future, or that competitors will not develop superior compliant products. See "Item 1. BUSINESS -- ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE." 11 The Company has not received any claims that its products or the technologies upon which they are based infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Any such claims in the future may result in the Company being required to enter into royalty arrangements, cease manufacturing the infringing products or utilizing the infringing technologies, pay damages or defend litigation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. The Company's business may also be adversely affected by matters and events affecting businesses generally, including, without limitation, political and economic events, labor unrest, acts of God, war, acts of terrorism and other events outside of the Company's control. 