ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have established an ongoing Risk Analysis and Oversight Program to identify and assign responsibility for the most significant risks facing our company. The results of this program are routinely shared with our Board of Directors. In this section, we discuss the highest priority issues identified in our risk analysis. If any of the following occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could also decline. These risk factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in a continually changing business environment and new risk factors emerge from time to time. Management cannot predict such developments, nor can it assess the impact, if any, on our business of such new risk factors or of events described in any forward-looking statements. The current economic recession will impact demand for our product and could harm our financial condition and results of operations. The current economic recession and outlook has resulted in a decline in demand for air travel. Our passenger count and traffic declined in the fourth quarter when compared to the prior year periods and we anticipate declines into 2009. We are reducing 2009 capacity at both Alaska and Horizon by 8% and 9%, respectively, when compared to 2008 to help offset this anticipated decline in passenger traffic, which will likely result in a decline in operating revenues. If demand declines further than expected, it will harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our indebtedness and other fixed obligations could increase the volatility of earnings and otherwise restrict our activities and potentially lead to liquidity constraints. We have, and will continue to have for the foreseeable future, a significant amount of debt. Due to our high fixed costs, including aircraft lease commitments and debt service, a decrease in revenues results in a disproportionately greater decrease in earnings. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had approximately $1.8 billion and $1.3 billion of 16 Table of Contents long-term debt outstanding, respectively, all of which is secured by flight equipment, aircraft purchase rights and real property. In addition to long-term debt, we have significant other fixed obligations under operating leases related to our aircraft, airport terminal space, other airport facilities and office space. As of December 31, 2008, future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases with initial or remaining terms in excess of one year were approximately $1.0 billion for 2009 through 2013 and an aggregate of approximately $400 million for the years thereafter. At December 31, 2008, we had firm orders to purchase 33 aircraft requiring future aggregate payments of $753.4 million through 2011. Although we have secured financing for all of the firm Q400 commitments, there is no guarantee that additional financing will be available for our other aircraft deliveries when required or that the terms will be acceptable to us. The current market conditions could result in a lack of availability or higher interest rates for financing of aircraft purchases, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our outstanding long-term debt and other fixed obligations could have important consequences. For example, they could: • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our future capital expenditures, acquisitions, working capital or other purposes; • require us to dedicate a material portion of our operating cash flow to fund lease payments and interest payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available for other purposes; and • limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including reacting to the current economic slowdown. We cannot ensure that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow from our operations to pay our debt and other fixed obligations as they become due. If we fail to do so, our business could be harmed. Alaska is required to comply with specific financial covenants in certain agreements. We cannot be certain now that Alaska will be able to comply with these covenants or provisions or that these requirements will not limit our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs. Our failure to successfully reduce unit costs at both Alaska and Horizon could harm our business. We continue to strive toward aggressive cost-reduction goals that are an important part of our business strategy of offering the best value to passengers through competitive fares while achieving acceptable profit margins and return on capital. We believe having a lower cost structure better positions us to be able to fund future growth and take advantage of market opportunities, if economic conditions allow. However, with our planned capacity reductions, we will see upward pressure on unit costs, at least in the near term. Furthermore, if Horizon is unable to successfully transition to an all-Q400 fleet, it will be more difficult to reach our unit cost goals as the remaining Q200 and CRJ-700 aircraft are more costly to operate on a per-unit basis. If we are unable to further reduce our non-fuel unit costs over the long-term and achieve targeted profitability, we will likely not be able to grow our business in the future and therefore our financial results may suffer. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations are substantially exposed to the volatility of jet fuel prices. Increases in jet fuel costs would harm our business. Fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our total operating expenses, accounting for 36% and 27% of total operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Significant increases in average fuel costs during the past several years have negatively affected our results of operations. Although prices have declined sharply over the past six months, prices are still substantially higher than they were earlier in this decade. Future increases in the price of jet fuel will harm our financial condition and results of operations, unless we are able to increase fares or add additional ancillary fees to attempt to recover increasing fuel costs. 17 Table of Contents Historically, fuel costs and availability have been unpredictable and subject to wide price fluctuations based on geopolitical issues and supply and demand. It is often difficult to increase fares to offset increases in the price of fuel and although we had some success recently, we may not be able to do so in the future. We utilize fuel hedges as a form of insurance against the volatility of fuel prices. To manage the risk of fuel price increases, we primarily purchase call options that are designed to cap a portion of our fuel costs at designated per-barrel oil prices. Even with hedges, we are substantially and increasingly exposed to increases in jet fuel costs as the average price at which we are hedged in future periods is higher than it has historically been. The airline industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid change. We may be unable to compete effectively against other airlines with greater financial resources or lower operating costs, or to adjust rapidly enough in the event the nature of competition in our markets changes. The airline industry is highly competitive as to fares, flight frequency, frequent flyer benefits, routes and service. The industry is particularly susceptible to price discounting because airlines incur only nominal costs to provide service to passengers occupying otherwise unsold seats. Over the past few years, airlines have reduced domestic routes and the number of planes available, which has resulted in reduced domestic industry capacity and a trend towards increased fares. Although capacity has declined based on a nationwide average, capacity on the West Coast has not declined to the same degree due to increased competition from new market entrants. If airlines decide to increase their capacity in the future, this could cause fares to decline, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Many of our competitors are larger than we are and therefore, may have significantly greater financial resources and name recognition or lower operating costs than we do. In addition, competitors who have successfully reorganized out of bankruptcy have lowered their operating costs as a result of renegotiated labor, supply and financing agreements. From time to time in the past, some of these competitors have chosen to add service, reduce their fares, or take other competitive steps in our key markets. We may be unable to compete effectively against other airlines that introduce service or discounted fares in the markets that we serve. The airline industry, and particularly regional airlines like Horizon, also faces competition from ground transportation alternatives, such as buses, trains or automobiles. Increased use of technology such as video conferencing and internet-based meeting tools have also resulted in a change in business travel, especially in short-haul markets like those that Horizon serves. A significant increase in labor costs or change in key personnel could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We compete against the major U.S. airlines and other businesses for labor in many highly skilled positions. If we are unable to hire, train and retain qualified employees at a reasonable cost, or if we lose the services of key personnel, we may be unable to grow or sustain our business. In such case, our operating results and business prospects could be harmed. We may also have difficulty replacing management or other key personnel who leave and, therefore, the loss of any of these individuals could harm our business. Labor costs are a significant component of our total expenses, accounting for approximately 25% and 30% of our total operating expenses in 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, labor unions represented approximately 84% of Alaska’s and 49% of Horizon’s employees. Each of our represented employee groups has a separate collective bargaining agreement, and could make demands that would increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our financial performance if we agree to them. Uncertainty around open contracts could be a distraction to many employees, reduce employee engagement in our business and divert management’s attention from other projects and issues. Disengaged 18 Table of Contents employees could prevent us from achieving the operational improvements in completion rate and on-time performance that we seek. In 2005, Alaska and the Air Line Pilots Association (ALPA) were unable to reach a new agreement, and therefore, pursuant to the terms of the collective bargaining agreement that existed at the time, the parties submitted the agreement to binding arbitration. That arbitration decision, which was effective May 1, 2005, resulted in an average pilot wage reduction of 26%. That contract became amendable on May 1, 2007, and Alaska has been in negotiations with ALPA. In 2008, ALPA requested mediation from the National Mediation Board (NMB) in order to assist with contract negotiations. We have begun meeting with the NMB and hope to reach a negotiated contract that recognizes the important contributions that our pilots make while not harming our competitive position. Horizon is also in negotiations with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters on a new pilot agreement. The Horizon pilot contract became amendable in September 2006. Factoring in pay rates, productivity measures, and pension and postretirement medical benefits, we believe our pilot unit costs at both Alaska and Horizon are among the highest in the industry for the size of aircraft we operate. Our continuing obligation to fund our traditional defined-benefit pension plans could negatively affect our ability to compete in the marketplace. This is because most of our competitors either have eliminated such obligations through bankruptcy or have never had traditional pension plans in place. Currently, all of our defined-benefit pension plans are closed to new entrants, with the exception of the plan covering Alaska’s pilots. Our defined-benefit pension plan assets are subject to market risk. If market returns are poor in the future, as they were in 2008, our obligation to make additional cash contributions in accordance with the Pension Plan Act of 2006 could increase and harm our liquidity. Poor market returns also lead to higher pension expense in our statement of operations. The calculation of pension expense is dependent on many assumptions that are more fully described in “Critical Accounting Estimates” on page 52 and Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements. Finally, to the extent we are unable to maintain the outsourcing or subcontracting of certain services for our business, we would incur substantial costs, including costs associated with hiring new employees, in order to perform these services in-house. Our operations are often affected by factors beyond our control, including delays, cancellations and other conditions, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Like other airlines, our operations often are affected by delays, cancellations and other conditions caused by factors largely beyond our control, including: • air traffic congestion at airports or other air traffic control problems; • adverse weather conditions; • increased security measures or breaches in security; and • international or domestic conflicts, terrorist activity, or other changes in business conditions. Delays and cancellations frustrate passengers, reduce aircraft utilization and increase costs, all of which affect our profitability. Due to our geographic area of operations, we believe a significant portion of our operation is more susceptible to adverse weather conditions than that of many of our competitors. A general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of any of the above-mentioned factors could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a few key markets to be successful. Our strategy is to focus on serving a few key markets, including Seattle, Portland, Los Angeles and Anchorage. A significant portion of our flights occurs to and from our Seattle hub. In 2008, passengers to and from Seattle accounted for 62% of our total passengers. 19 Table of Contents We believe that concentrating our service offerings in this way allows us to maximize our investment in personnel, aircraft, and ground facilities, as well as to gain greater advantage from sales and marketing efforts in those regions. As a result, we remain highly dependent on our key markets. Our business could be harmed by any circumstances causing a reduction in demand for air transportation in our key markets. An increase in competition in our key markets could also cause us to reduce fares or take other competitive measures that could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The airline industry continues to face potential security concerns and related costs. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and their aftermath negatively affected the airline industry, including our company. These attacks and other foiled terror plots since then have resulted in new security measures that also impacted our company. Additional terrorist attacks, the fear of such attacks or other hostilities involving the U.S. could have a further significant negative effect on the airline industry, including us, and could: • significantly reduce passenger traffic and yields as a result of a potentially dramatic drop in demand for air travel; • significantly increase security and insurance costs; • make war risk or other insurance unavailable or extremely expensive; • increase fuel costs and the volatility of fuel prices; • increase costs from airport shutdowns, flight cancellations and delays resulting from security breaches and perceived safety threats; and • result in a grounding of commercial air traffic by the FAA. The occurrence of any of these events would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. With respect to the availability of commercial War and Allied Perils Insurance, world events or events involving our company could result in sudden market volatility resulting in cancellation and/or a material change in the availability or cost of the coverage which could adversely affect ongoing operations or results. Further, commercial War and Allied Perils Insurance now excludes certain catastrophic perils not previously excluded for weapons of mass destruction (such as chemical, biological or nuclear devices). The commercial policies also contain low aggregate sublimits, which do not adequately address potential catastrophic third-party war and allied perils exposures. In the event we were to be required to rely on the commercial insurance market, expensive excess limits would likely need to be explored in an equally volatile excess specialty market. It remains, therefore, our position to retain our coverage for this aspect of the insurance program directly through the U.S. government’s FAA premium war risk insurance program, rather than procure it from the commercial market. Although our insurance costs have declined significantly, aviation insurers could increase their premiums again in the event of additional terrorist attacks, hijackings, airline accidents or other events adversely affecting the airline industry. Furthermore, the full hull and liability war risk insurance provided by the government is currently mandated through March 31, 2009. Although the government may extend the deadline for providing such coverage, we cannot be certain that any extension will occur, or if it does, for how long the extension will last. It is expected that, should the government stop providing such coverage to the airline industry, the premiums charged by aviation insurers for this coverage will be substantially higher than the premiums currently charged by the government and the coverage will be much more limited, including smaller aggregate limits and shorter cancellation periods. Significant increases in insurance premiums would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Our reputation and financial results could be harmed in the event of an airline accident or incident. An accident or incident involving one of our aircraft could involve a significant loss of life and result in a loss of confidence in our airlines by the flying public. In addition, we could experience significant potential claims from injured passengers and surviving relatives, as well as costs for the repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its consequential temporary or permanent loss from service. Although we strive to maintain the highest standards of safety and reliability, should an accident or incident nevertheless occur, we maintain liability insurance in amounts and of the type generally consistent with industry practice. However, the amount of such coverage may not be adequate and we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of our related insurance coverage would harm our business and financial results. Moreover, any aircraft accident or incident, even if fully insured and even if it does not involve one of our airlines, could cause a public perception that our airlines or the equipment they fly is less safe or reliable than other transportation alternatives, which would harm our business. We rely heavily on automated systems to operate our business, and a failure of these systems or by their operators could harm our business. We depend on automated systems to operate our business, including our computerized airline reservation system, our telecommunication systems, our website, our maintenance systems, and other systems. Substantially all of our tickets are issued to passengers as electronic tickets. We depend on our computerized reservation system to be able to issue, track and accept these electronic tickets. In order for our operations to work efficiently, our website and reservation system must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic, maintain secure information, and deliver important flight information. Substantial or repeated website, reservations system or telecommunication systems failures could reduce the attractiveness of our services and cause our customers to purchase tickets from another airline. In addition, we rely on other automated systems for crew scheduling, flight dispatch, and other operational needs. Disruption in, changes to, or a breach of these systems could result in the loss of important data, an increase of our expenses and a possible temporary cessation of our operations. We rely on partner airlines for codeshare and frequent flyer marketing arrangements. Alaska and Horizon are parties to marketing agreements with a number of domestic and international air carriers, or “partners,” including but not limited to American Airlines, Continental Airlines, Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines. These agreements provide that certain flight segments operated by us are held out as partner “codeshare” flights and that certain partner flights are held out for sale as Alaska codeshare flights. In addition, the agreements generally provide that members of Alaska’s Mileage Plan program can earn miles on or redeem miles for partner flights and vice versa. We receive a significant amount of revenue from flights sold under codeshare arrangements. In addition, we believe that the frequent flyer arrangements are an important part of our Mileage Plan program. The loss of a significant partner or certain partner flights could have a negative effect on our revenues or the attractiveness of our Mileage Plan, which we believe is a source of competitive advantage. We rely on third-party vendors for certain critical activities. We have historically relied on outside vendors for a variety of services and functions critical to our business, including airframe and engine maintenance, ground handling, fueling, computer reservation system hosting and software maintenance. As part of our cost-reduction efforts, our reliance on outside vendors has increased and may continue to do so in the future. In recent years, Alaska has subcontracted its heavy aircraft maintenance, fleet service, facilities maintenance, and ground handling services at certain airports, including Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, to outside vendors. 21 Table of Contents Our use of outside vendors increases our exposure to several risks. In the event that one or more vendors goes into bankruptcy, ceases operation or fails to perform as promised, replacement services may not be readily available at competitive rates, or at all. Although we believe that our vendor oversight and quality control is among the best in the industry, if one of our vendors fails to perform adequately we may experience increased costs, delays, maintenance issues, safety issues or negative public perception of our airline. Vendor bankruptcies, unionization, regulatory compliance issues or significant changes in the competitive marketplace among suppliers could adversely affect vendor services or force Alaska to renegotiate existing agreements on less favorable terms. These events could result in disruptions in Alaska’s operations or increases in its cost structure. We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for aircraft and parts. Alaska is dependent on Boeing as its sole supplier for aircraft and many of its aircraft parts. Horizon is similarly dependent on Bombardier. Additionally, each carrier is dependent on sole suppliers for aircraft engines. As a result, we are more vulnerable to any problems associated with the supply of those aircraft and parts, including design defects, mechanical problems, contractual performance by the manufacturers, or adverse perception by the public that would result in customer avoidance or in actions by the FAA resulting in an inability to operate our aircraft. Changes in government regulation imposing additional requirements and restrictions on our operations or on the airports at which we operate could increase our operating costs and result in service delays and disruptions. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal requirements, both domestically and internationally, that involve significant compliance costs. In the last several years, Congress has passed laws, and the U.S. Department of Transportation, the Transportation Security Administration and the Federal Aviation Administration (the “FAA”) have issued regulations that have required significant expenditures relating to the maintenance and operation of airlines. For example, the FAA has issued regulations covering, among other things, security measures, collision avoidance systems, noise abatement, environmental restrictions, safety procedures and maintenance regulations. Similarly, many aspects of an airline’s operations are subject to increasingly stringent federal, state and local laws protecting the environment. Because of significantly higher security and other costs incurred by airports since September 11, 2001, many airports have increased their rates and charges to air carriers. Additional laws, regulations, taxes, and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce the demand for air travel. Although lawmakers may impose these additional fees and view them as “pass-through” costs, we believe that a higher total ticket price will influence consumer purchase and travel decisions and may result in an overall decline in passenger traffic, which would harm our business. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our stock can be influenced by many factors, a number of which are outside of our control, including those discussed above. Some of the primary factors in the volatility of our stock price are: • our actual or anticipated financial performance; • the price of crude oil; • the overall financial performance of the industry; and • other industry, macro or geopolitical factors. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 