Item 1A. Risk Factors Our businesses face many risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those described in the following section. The risks described below should not be considered all-inclusive. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following section actually occurs, our business financial condition or results of operations may suffer and impact the trading price of our stock. Risks Related to Our Business The successful operation and growth of our business depends heavily on economic conditions within our service areas. The vast majority of our customers and operations are located in the upper Midwest revolving around our fiber footprint servicing Minnesota, Iowa, North Dakota, South Dakota and Wisconsin. Adverse economic conditions affect the affordability and demand for some of our products and services and could make it difficult to obtain new customers and may cause our current customers to shift to lower priced products and services or forgo purchases of our products and services. Our customers may not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could affect their ability to make timely payments to us. We cannot predict with certainty the impact to our operations of any downturn in the overall economy or credit market. The communications industry is highly competitive and the level of competition continues to increase. We face increased competition across all markets and customer segments from providers offering competing or alternative services. We expect competition to intensify as a result of new and existing competitors and the development of new technologies, products and services. Many of our voice and data competitors, such as cable providers, Internet access providers, wireless service providers and long distance carriers, have significantly greater brand name recognition and financial, personnel, marketing and other resources. In addition, due to consolidation and strategic alliances within the communications industry, we cannot predict the number of competitors we will face, especially as a result of existing or new federal and state regulatory or legislative actions. Such increased competition from existing and new entities could lead to price reductions, reduced operating margins or loss of market share. We attempt to differentiate our products and services through technology, reputation, customer service, value-added services, local service and support, a robust product and service portfolio, and a reliable network platform. Increased competition has impacted our profitability in the past and we cannot assure you that it will not continue to impact our profitability in the future. 15 Table of Contents The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act provided approximately $7.2 billion in financial incentives to companies for the purpose of expanding broadband service to unserved or underserved markets. Financial incentives paid to new or existing competitors could incent them to enter markets where we are already providing broadband service. We have seen a noticeable increase in fiber network construction by communications carriers and private entities which may directly compete with our existing fiber facilities and have also realized accelerated market price compression over the past couple years as compared to prior trends, regarding certain services in certain markets. This accelerated market price compression is relevant to both business and wholesale customers. We cannot predict with any certainty whether this accelerated market price compression will continue or taper back to prior trends. We must adapt to rapid technological change, accurately predict technological trends and successfully introduce new products and services. We are subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, particularly in the areas of VoIP, data transmission and wireless communications, frequent new service introductions and evolving industry standards. Our success also depends, in part, upon our ability to successfully introduce new products and services including: · Our ability to introduce additional hosted and managed services, · Our ability to offer services on terms attractive to our customers, · Our ability to expand and enhance our broadband offerings, · Our ability to introduce and distribute the equipment and systems of manufacturers of switching equipment and the suppliers of communications technology compared to the competitive alternatives of other suppliers, · Our ability to provide fiber and data solutions and competitive IP services, including communications and network solutions, and · Our ability to provide competitive products and services. If we fail to anticipate or respond to technological developments, changes in industry standards or customer demands in a cost-effective and timely manner our business operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Introduction of new or enhanced products and services could require us to make significant capital investments in our effort to remain competitive. Shifts in our product mix may result in declines in operating profitability. Margins vary among our products and services. Our profitability may be impacted by technological change, customer demands, regulatory changes, the competitive nature of our business and changes in the product mix of our sales. These shifts may also result in our long-lived assets to become impaired or our inventory to become obsolete. We review long-lived assets for potential impairment if certain events or changes in circumstances indicate impairment may be present. We currently manage potential obsolescence through reserves, but future technology changes may exceed current reserves. We depend on third parties, over whom we have no control, to deliver some of our products and services. We depend heavily on other communications companies, network providers, equipment suppliers and program service providers to provide products and services, which are key to our offerings. As a normal part of our business, we may encounter service interruptions due to failures caused by non-related entities, which may affect our service to our customers. In spite of our measures to mitigate these service interruptions, disruptions may occur and our recurring revenue stream may be impacted due to customer credits given for service interruptions, or if major interruptions occur, we may incur setbacks to our service reputation or lose business. Our network operates pursuant to franchises, permits and rights from public and private entities such as established telephone companies and other utilities, railroads, long-distance companies and from state highway authorities and local governments. To extend our network reach, we utilize long-term indefeasible rights of use ("IRU") agreements and fiber leases. Our success is dependent upon compliance with material terms of the authority we receive and also our ability to renew our fiber leases and other vitally important agreements with third-party public and private entities without material increases in our expenses or restrictions on our use. 16 Table of Contents We expect the cost of obtaining video programming content to continue to be one of our largest operating costs associated with providing digital TV service. In recent years, the industry has experienced rapid increases in the cost of programming. Programming costs are generally assessed on a per-subscriber basis, and therefore relate directly to the number of subscribers to which the programming is provided. Our relatively small subscriber base limits our ability to negotiate lower per-subscriber programming costs. While we expect these increases to continue we may not be able to pass our full programming cost increases on to our customers, especially as an increasing amount of content becomes available via the Internet at little or no cost. Also, some competitors own programming in their own right and we may be unable to secure license rights to that programming. As our programming contracts expire, there can be no assurance that they will be renewed on acceptable terms or they will be renewed at all, in which case we may be unable to provide such programming as part of our digital TV services and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We are dependent upon equipment vendors to deliver our services and delays in the shipment of equipment, limited availability or the loss of our principal equipment supplier could significantly impact our operations. The failure to maintain these necessary third party arrangements on acceptable terms would have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. Our possible pursuit of acquisitions could be expensive, may not be successful and, even if successful may be more costly than anticipated. Our ability to complete future acquisitions will depend on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable terms and, if necessary, finance those acquisitions. Whether or not any particular acquisition is closed successfully, pursuing acquisitions is expensive and requires our management to spend considerable time and effort to accomplish, which may detract from their ability to run our current business. If a deal is reached, we may face unexpected challenges in securing any required approvals from the FCC or other applicable state regulatory commissions, which could result in a delay in our ability to consummate the acquisition. Although we may spend considerable expense and effort to pursue acquisitions, we may not be successful in closing them. When we are successful in closing acquisitions, we face several risks associated with integration. In addition, any due diligence we performed may prove to have been inaccurate. For example, we may face unexpected difficulties in entering markets in which we have little or no direct experience, generating the expected revenue and cash flow from the acquired companies or assets and retaining customers and key employees. If we do pursue an acquisition or a strategic transaction and any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to achieve sufficient cash flow, provide adequate working capital, service and repay our indebtedness and leave sufficient funds to pay dividends. A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure could impair our liquidity, disrupt our business, damage our reputation and cause loss. To be successful, it is imperative to continue to provide our customers with a reliable and secure network. Disruptions or system failures may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers. Some of the risks to our network and infrastructure include: physical damage to access lines, breaches of security, power surges or outages, software defects and disruptions beyond our control, such as natural disasters. We could also face disruptions due to capacity limitations if changes in our customers' usage patterns for broadband services result in a significant increase in capacity utilization. Despite the existence of contingency plans and facilities, disruptions may cause interruption of service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and incur expenses, and thereby adversely affect our business revenue, reputation and cash flow. Our business may be harmed if we are unable to maintain data security. We are dependent upon automated information technology processes and systems. Any failure to maintain the security of our data and our employees' and customers' confidential information, including the breach of our network security or the misappropriation of confidential information, could result in fines, penalties and litigation. Any such failure could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals, including engineering and operations, sales and support professionals, administration and billing software development. Technological advances require our employees to continually increase their knowledge base. Our ability to compete and grow our business effectively depends upon our ability to attract qualified candidates and retain and motivate our existing employees. Our inability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and senior management could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may acquire new businesses and our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to retain, hire and integrate personnel from acquired businesses who are critical to the continued success and integration of the acquired businesses. We depend on hiring new employees and training existing employees on the communications industry and our business operations. We also depend on corporate employees to know the aspects of reporting and complying with the requirements of operating as a publicly-traded company. We may encounter additional costs to rectify situations or to maintain adequately trained staff should there be problems in our levels of skilled and talented employees. The loss of our certification or designation from Cisco or another business partner, or by a partner losing its position as a leading provider of technology solutions would adversely impact our Equipment Segment. The majority of our equipment practice is based on the Cisco product line by which we provide hardware and IT consulting solutions for business customers. If Cisco equipment and technology fall out of favor in the marketplace, our success as a distributor may decline or be delayed as we seek alternative solutions. The loss of a designation or authorization may affect our success as a leading distributor. It is also possible that we may lose the certified technicians who build the basis for our qualifications. Our operations require substantial capital expenditures, operating and administrative costs as we operate in a cash-flow-dependent business. We require substantial capital to maintain, upgrade and enhance our network facilities and operations. In 2013, we incurred $27,992,000 in capital expenditures. Our operating expenses, in particular payroll for a highly trained workforce and the maintenance cost of communications networks require large uses of cash. Our debt service obligation and any dividends to shareholders require significant cash each year. New business development may require additional up-front investment in assets and funding of early stage operating losses. Although we establish financial plans to attempt to ensure cash is adequate to fund operations, a sudden unanticipated increase in cash outflow after we have already initiated our business plans could alter our future plans, which could possibly affect our growth or ability to maintain our current network infrastructure, our debt obligations or our ability to fund future dividends. Risks Related to Regulations The communications industry in which we operate is subject to federal, state and local regulation that could change in a manner adverse to us. Our Telecom Segment, with operations in Minnesota and Iowa is subject to regulations that impact the rates we charge, the areas we service, our contracts with suppliers and virtually every facet of our business. Laws and regulations may be, and in some cases have been, challenged in the courts and could be changed by Congress, state legislatures or regulators at any time. New regulations could be imposed by federal or state authorities further impacting our operating costs or capital requirements in a manner that is adverse to us. We cannot predict the impact of future developments or changes to the regulatory environment or the impact such developments or changes may have on us. Adverse rulings, legislation or changes in governmental policy on issues material to us could increase our competition, cause customer attrition, decrease our revenue, increase our costs and decrease our profitability. Legislative or regulatory changes could reduce the revenue received from network access charges. Access charges, which are intended to compensate our ILEC and CLEC operations for originating, terminating or transporting long distance and other carriers' calls in our service areas, accounted for approximately 10% of our total revenue in 2013. The amount of network access charges we receive is based on interstate rates set by the FCC and intrastate rates set by the MPUC and the IUB. The large national carriers who pay these charges have advocated that access charges should be reduced and some network providers have argued that access charges do not apply to specific types of traffic. As our business becomes increasingly competitive, the regulatory disparities regarding network access revenue, the marketplace forces on its pricing levels and our ability to enforce the historical rules for collecting this revenue, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the FCC Transformation Order released November 18, 2011, the FCC adopted rules which dramatically reformed network access compensation. These rules are subject to petitions for reconsideration as well as court appeals. If they remain in place, the rules call for rates to end users to increase dramatically and establish a new federal subsidy program to recover a portion of revenue lost to decreased intercarrier compensation and also provide some recovery of reduced revenue from the CAF. The FCC has issued further notice of proposed rulemaking to consider additional changes to intercarrier compensation. We cannot predict whether or when action may be taken on any of these issues, or what effect any action may have on our revenue and costs. 18 Table of Contents The Transformation Order also confirmed the applicability of access charges on VoIP traffic and eliminated reciprocal compensation charges for termination of local wireless traffic. Despite these changes, interexchange carriers and others continue to aggressively dispute carrier access charges and/or the applicability of access charges to their traffic which could negatively impact our cash flows. Legislative or regulatory changes could reduce or eliminate the government subsidies we receive. The federal system of subsidies, from which we derive a portion of our revenue, is subject to modification. In the Order released November 18, 2011, the FCC adopted rules which dramatically reform the universal service program and intercarrier compensation regime. Unless they are changed as a result of petitions for reconsideration or appellate court challenges, we anticipate sources of revenue to shift from intercarrier compensation to end users. Acceptance of the NTIA BTOP Grant imposed a new set of compliance requirements. With the acceptance of the NTIA's BTOP grant award in 2010, we agreed to comply with all applicable public laws and regulations, including those specifically required under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and the BTOP grant program itself. While we are already complying with many of these rules and guidelines, the award program imposed a new set of requirements. While we have completed the project with no known compliance issues during the three-year grant period, we must continue to comply with specific requirements related to retaining title and adequately accounting for property and equipment funded under the award. Failure to comply could result in federal action taken against us based on the severity of non-compliance, up to and including debarment from working with the federal government on future projects or repayment of funds received under the award program. Legislative and regulatory changes in the communications industry could raise our costs by facilitating greater competition against us and reduce potential revenue. Legislative and regulatory changes in the communications industry could adversely affect our business by facilitating greater competition, reducing our revenue or raising our costs. For example, federal or state legislatures or regulatory commissions could impose new requirements relating to standards or quality of service, credit and collection policies, or obligations to provide new or enhanced services. Our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulation that increase our costs of operations and could subject us to liability. Our operations and properties are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, natural resources and worker health and safety that could adversely affect our profitability. We operate under a number of environmental and health and safety laws, including laws and regulations governing and creating liability to, the management, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, asbestos, petroleum products and other regulated materials. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations governing air emissions from our fleets of vehicles. As a result, we face several risks, including the following: · Under certain environmental laws, we could be held liable, jointly and severally and without regard to fault, for the costs of investigating and the remediation of any actual or threatened environmental contamination at currently and formerly owned or operated properties, and those of our predecessors, and for contamination associated with disposal by us or our predecessors of hazardous materials at third party disposal sites, · The presence of contamination can adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell any such affected property or to use it as collateral, · We could be held responsible for third party property damage claims, personal injury claims or natural resource damage claims relating to any such contamination, · The cost of complying with existing environmental requirements could be significant, · Adoption of new environmental laws, regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their interpretations could result in significant compliance costs or as yet identified environmental liabilities, · Future acquisition of businesses or properties subject to environmental requirements or affected by environmental contamination could require us to incur substantial costs relating to such matters, and · In addition, environmental laws regulating wetland, endangered species and other land use and natural resource issues may increase costs associated with future business or expansion opportunities, delay, alter or interfere with such plans, or otherwise adversely affect such plans. The high cost of regulatory compliance could make it more difficult to enter new markets, make acquisitions or change our prices. Regulatory compliance requires significant costs and diverts the time and effort of our management and officers away from running the business. In addition, because regulations differ from state to state, we could face significant costs in obtaining information necessary to compete and provide services, such as long distance services, in different states. These information barriers could cause us to incur substantial costs and to encounter significant obstacles and delays in entering these markets. Compliance costs and information barriers could also affect our ability to evaluate and compete for new opportunities to acquire local access lines or businesses as they arise. 19 Table of Contents Our intrastate telecommunications services are generally subject to certification, tariff filing and other ongoing state regulatory requirements. Challenges to our tariffs by regulators or third parties or delays in obtaining certifications and regulatory approvals could cause us to incur substantial legal and administrative expenses. If successful, these challenges could adversely affect the rates that we are able to charge to customers, which would negatively affect our revenue. We may incur significant costs associated with lawsuits and regulatory inquiries. Any such claims or regulatory inquiries, whether successful or not, may require us to devote significant amounts of monetary or human resources to defend ourselves. It could be necessary to spend significant amounts on our legal defense and senior management may be required to divert their attention which could detract from their ability to run our business. If as a result of any proceedings, a judgment is rendered or a decree is entered against us, it may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If as a result of our own cost/benefit analysis we determine that a settlement of a claim against us is a better solution than a costly court defense, the financial impact may be substantial on our business and financial condition. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights and domains or may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third parties. We regard our trademarks as important to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees and others to protect our proprietary rights. We may be subject to third-party claims that we infringe their proprietary rights or trademarks. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against us or the payment of damages by us. This risk has been amplified by the increase in third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. The costs of supporting such litigation and disputes are considerable, and there can be no assurances that favorable outcomes will be obtained. Increased regulation of the Internet could decrease our revenue. Currently, there exists only a small body of law and regulation applicable to access to, or commerce on, the Internet. As the significance of the Internet expands, federal, state and local governments may adopt new rules and regulations or apply existing laws and regulations to the Internet. As a result of a Circuit Court order on January 14, 2014, the FCC will be continuing its review of the appropriate regulatory framework governing broadband consumer protections for high-speed access to the Internet. The outcome of these proceedings may affect our regulatory obligations, costs and competition for our services which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness and Our Capital Structure We have a substantial balance of senior bank debt outstanding under long-term financing agreements and may incur additional debt in the future, which could restrict our ability to fund our operations and pay future dividends. As of December 31, 2013, we had $135,207,000 of total long-term debt outstanding, including current maturities. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences including: · Requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments on our debt, · Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, · Limiting our ability to borrow additional funds, or to sell assets to raise funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes, · Increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates, and · Placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. We cannot assure you that we will generate sufficient revenue to service and repay our debt and have sufficient funds left over to achieve or sustain profitability in our operations, meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs, compete successfully in our markets or pay future dividends to our stockholders. 20 Table of Contents If we seek additional financing, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, or at all, and our shareholders may experience dilution of their ownership interest if we seek equity financing. We currently anticipate our available cash resources, which include our ability to generate net cash inflow from our operations, our credit facility, existing cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated needs for working capital, capital expenditures and other fixed charges to execute our near-term business plan, based on current business operations and economic conditions. If our estimates are incorrect and we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations and expand our credit facility, we may need to raise additional funds. In addition, if one or more of our strategic growth opportunities exceeds our existing resources, we may be required to seek additional capital. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or equity-related securities, our shareholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of common stock. Our existing debt covenants require a portion of the proceeds of an equity offering be applied to the outstanding debt balance. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional debt, we may be subject to restrictive covenants that could limit our operating flexibility and increased interest payments could dilute earnings per share. We are subject to restrictive debt covenants and other requirements related to our outstanding debt that limit our business flexibility by imposing operating and financial restrictions. These restrictions limit or restrict, among other things, our ability to: · Incur additional debt and issue preferred stock, · Pay dividends on, and purchase or redeem, capital stock, · Make investments in excess of a threshold, · Create liens on our assets, · Sell certain assets, · Engage in some transactions with affiliates, and · Make other restricted payments, including payments in connection with investments and acquisitions in excess of a threshold. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make acquisitions or fund capital expenditures, withstand downturns in our business or take advantage of business opportunities. Furthermore, the credit facilities also require us to maintain specified total leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios and to satisfy specified financial condition tests, and may require us to make annual mandatory prepayments with a portion of our available cash. Our ability to comply with the ratios may be affected by events beyond our control including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. A breach of any of these covenants contained in our credit agreement could result in a default under our credit facilities. If we were to default, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the credit facilities to be due and payable. If the amounts outstanding under our credit facilities were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay the money in full owed to the lenders or to our other debt holders. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our Board of Directors could, at its discretion, depart from or change our dividend payment practices at any time. We are not required to pay dividends, do not have a dividend policy and our stockholders are not guaranteed, and do not have contractual or other rights, to receive dividends. Our Board of Directors may decide at any time, at its discretion, to decrease the amount of dividends, otherwise change or revoke our past dividend payment practices or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. In addition, if we do not pay dividends for whatever reason, shares of our common stock could become less liquid and the market price of our common stock could decline. Our ability to pay dividends, and our board of directors' determination to maintain the dividend declaration, will depend on numerous factors, including the following: · The state of our business, the environment in which we operate and the various risk factors we face, including, but not limited to competition, technological change, industry change, regulatory and other risks summarized in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, · Our future results of operations, financial condition, liquidity needs and capital resources, · Our cash needs, including interest and any future principal payments on our indebtedness, capital expenditures, taxes, pension and other post-retirement contributions and certain other costs, and · Potential sources of liquidity, including borrowing under our revolving credit facility or possible asset sales. 21 Table of Contents While our cash flow available for the year ended December 31, 2013 was sufficient to pay dividends, if our estimated cash flow were to fall below our expectations, our assumptions as to estimated cash needs are too low or if other applicable assumptions were to prove incorrect, we may need to: · Either reduce or eliminate dividends, · Fund dividends by incurring additional debt (to the extent we were permitted to do so under agreements governing our then existing debt), which would increase our leverage, debt repayment obligations and interest expense and decrease our interest coverage, resulting in, among other things, reduced capacity to incur debt for other purposes, including to fund future dividend payments, · Amend the terms of our credit agreement, if our lenders agreed, to permit us to pay dividends or make other payments if we are otherwise not permitted to do so, · Fund dividends from future issuances of equity securities, which could be dilutive to our stockholders and negatively affect the price of our common stock, · Fund dividends from other sources, such as by asset sales or by working capital, which would leave us with less cash available for other purposes, and · Reduce other expected uses of cash, such as capital expenditures. If we continue to pay dividends at the level currently anticipated under our past dividend payment practice, our ability to pursue growth opportunities may be limited. We believe that our dividend payment practice has an effect on our ability to grow. If we continue paying dividends at the level anticipated under our past dividend payment practices, and there was a general business downturn, we may not retain a sufficient amount of cash and may need to seek financing to fund a material expansion of our business, including any significant acquisitions or to pursue growth opportunities requiring capital expenditures significantly beyond our current expectations. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, our shareholder rights plan and Minnesota law could prevent or delay a change in control of our Company. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, our shareholder rights plan and Minnesota law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder may consider favorable and may limit the market price for our common stock. These provisions include the following: · Authorization for our board of directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval, · Limitations on business combinations with interested shareholders, and · Advance notice requirements for shareholders proposals. Some of these provisions may discourage a future acquisition even though our shareholders would receive an attractive value for their shares or a significant number of our shareholders believe such a proposed transaction would be in their best interest. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 