Item 1A. Risk Factors Our businesses face many risks, the most important of which we attempt to describe in the following section. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business financial condition or results of operations may suffer and impact the trading price of our stock. Risks Related to Our Business Unfavorable general economic conditions in the United States could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Economic growth in the United States has slowed and we cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of the economic conditions or subsequent economic recovery. Recovery may prove to be short-lived. These conditions could adversely affect the affordability and demand for some of our products and services and could cause customers to shift to lower priced products and services or to delay or forgo purchases of our products and services. Our customers may not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could affect their ability to make timely payments to us. For these reasons, amon g others, if the current economic conditions persist or decline, this could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to service debt and pay other obligations. The communications industry is highly competitive and the level of competition continues to increase. We face increased competition within established markets from providers offering competing or alternative services. We expect competition to intensify as a result of new competitors and the development of new technologies, products and services. Recently, we have seen a noticeable increase in fiber network construction by communications carriers and private entities, which may directly compete with our existing fiber facilities. Many of our voice and data competitors, such as cable TV providers, Internet access providers, wireless service providers and long distance carriers, have significantly greater brand name recognition and financial, personnel, marketing and other resources. In addition, due to consolidation and strategic alliances within the communications industry, we cannot predict the number of competitors that will emerge, especially as a result of existing or new federal and state regulatory or legislative actions. Such increased competition from existing and new entities could lead to price reductions and reduced operating margins or loss of market share. We attempt to differentiate our products and services through technology, reputation, customer service and price. Increased competition has impacted our profitability in the past and we cannot as sure you that it will not continue to impact our profitability in the future. 13 Table of Contents We may not accurately predict technological trends or the success of new products. New product development often requires long-term forecasting of market trends, development and implementation of new technologies and processes along with substantial capital investment. While we are primarily “users” of other technologies and do not create or originate our own technology, if we fail to anticipate or respond to technological developments, changes in industry standards or customer requirements in a cost-effective and timely manner our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully introduce new products and services. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to successfully introduce new products and services including: · our ability to offer services on terms attractive to our customers, · our ability to expand our broadband offerings, · our ability to introduce and distribute the equipment and systems of manufacturers of switching equipment and the suppliers of communications technology compared to the competitive alternatives of other suppliers, · our ability to provide fiber and data solutions and competitive IP services, including communications and network solutions, and · our ability to provide competitive services. Shifts in our product mix may result in declines in operating profitability. Our traditional Telecom services carry higher margins than many of our newer services. Changes in product mix may also cause some of our inventory to become obsolete. We currently manage potential obsolescence through reserves, but future technology changes may exceed current reserves. Consolidation among our customers could result in our losing customers or experiencing a slowdown in new orders as our customers focus on integrating their operations. We believe that in certain instances, customers engaged in integrating large-scale solutions may scale back their purchases of network equipment and services. Furthermore, once consolidation occurs, our customers may choose to reduce the number of vendors they use to source their equipment and network services or consolidate their circuits or network routing. After consolidation occurs, there is no assurance that we will continue to supply equipment or network services to the end user. The impact of significant mergers on our business is likely to be unclear until after such transactions have closed and integration is complete. We depend on third parties, over whom we have no control, to deliver some of our services. Although we own and operate our fiber network and the community networks in our markets, because of the interconnected nature of the communications industry, we depend heavily on other communications companies, network providers, and program service providers to provide services to our customers. Some of the companies we rely on have exclusive rights to content. Our relatively small base of subscribers limits our ability to negotiate acceptable television programming content rates with program service providers. In addition, some competitors may own exclusive programming rights and may deny us access to their content. We are dependent upon equipment vendors to deliver our services and delays in the shipment of equipment or the loss of our principal equipment supplier could significantly impact our operations. In addition, we rely on easements, franchises and licenses from various private and public entities in order to construct and operate our networks. The failure to maintain these necessary third party arrangements on acceptable terms would have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. Our possible pursuit of acquisitions could be expensive, may not be successful and, even if successful may be more costly than anticipated. Our ability to complete future acquisitions will depend on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable terms for their acquisition and, if necessary, finance those acquisitions. Whether or not any particular acquisition is closed successfully, pursuing acquisitions are expensive and require our management to spend considerable time and effort to accomplish them, which may detract from their ability to run our current business. Once a deal is reached, we may face unexpected challenges in receiving any required approvals from the FCC or other applicable state regulatory commissions, which could result in delay or our not being able to consummate the acquisition. Although we may spend considerable expense and effort to pursue acquisitions, we may not be successful in closing them. If we are successful in closing acquisitions, we would face several risks associated with integration. In addition, any due diligence we perform may prove to have not been accurate. For example, we may face unexpected difficulties in entering markets in which we have little or no direct experience or in generating the expected revenue and cash flow from the acquired companies or assets. 14 Table of Contents If we do pursue an acquisition or a strategic transaction and any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to achieve sufficient cash flow, provide adequate working capital, service and repay our indebtedness and leave sufficient funds to pay dividends. Customer payment defaults could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of adverse market conditions, some of our customers may experience serious financial difficulties. Some of the interexchange carriers and long distance companies that utilize our network are our largest customers when it comes to recurring revenue. In some cases these difficulties have resulted or may result in bankruptcy filings or cessation of operations. If customers experiencing financial problems default on amounts owed to us, we may not be able to recognize expected revenue. Although we currently manage this exposure through an allowance for doubtful accounts, an unexpected bankruptcy or default by a customer may not be fully reserved for in our allowance . In the future it may become necessary for us to offer equipment financing to some of our customers to remain competitive. Currently, there are third-party financial service providers who offer qualified customers with financial products. Presently we have been able to maintain our business without offering our own financial products and services. If we offer such financing, it would be our intent to sell all or a portion of the financing receivables to third parties. We cannot predict whether our actions of offering customer financing would be financially successful. A failure to maintain effective internal controls could adversely affect our business. Although we have completed the documentation and testing of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for fiscal 2010, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we expect to incur continuing costs, which may include increased accounting fees and increased staffing levels, in order to maintain compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In addition, our ability to integrate the operations of other companies that we may acquire in the future could impact our compliance with Section 404. In the future, if we fail to complete the Sarbanes-Oxley 404 evaluation in a timely manner, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot attest in a timel y manner to the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Risks Related to the Management of Our Operations A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure could impair our liquidity, disrupt our business, damage our reputation and cause loss. Shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems could impair our liquidity, disrupt our business, result in liability to customers or regulatory intervention, damage our reputation or result in financial loss. To be successful, we will need to continue providing our customers with a reliable and secure network. Disruptions or system failures may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers. Our inability to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could constrain our ability to increase revenue and expand our businesses. Despite the existence of contingency plans and facilities, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which these businesses are located. Our business may be harmed if we are unable to maintain data security. We are dependent upon automated information technology processes. Any failure to maintain the security of our data and our employees’ and customers’ confidential information, including the breach of our network security or the misappropriation of confidential information, could result in fines, penalties, and private litigation. Any such failure could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals in our communication businesses, including telephone operations, fiber network sales and administration, billing software development and communications equipment sales and service. Technological advances require our employees to continually increase their knowledge base. Our ability to compete and grow our business effectively depends upon our ability to attract qualified employees and retain and motivate our existing employees. Our inability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and senior management could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and r esults of operations. In addition, we may acquire new businesses and our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to retain, hire and integrate personnel from acquired businesses, who are critical to the continued success and integration of these acquired businesses. We operate our network and our business under contracts and franchises that are subject to non-renewal or termination. Our network operates pursuant to franchises, permits or rights from public and private entities, which are terminable if we fail to comply with material terms of the authority we receive. Many of these permits and contracts we utilize in our network have fixed terms and must be renewed periodically. Our success is dependent on continuing these relationships without material increase in our expenses or restrictions on our use. The loss of our certification as a Cisco Gold Partner or Cisco designations, or by Cisco losing its position as a leading provider of technology solutions would adversely impact our Business Sector operations. The majority of our equipment practice is based on the Cisco product line by which we provide communications and technological solutions for business customers. If Cisco equipment and technology fall out of favor in the marketplace, our success as a distributor may decline or be delayed as we seek alternative solutions. While Cisco has made no previous indication it would do so, it could suspend our Gold Partner designation and affect our success as a leading distributor. It is also possible that we may lose the certified technicians who build the basis for our qualificatio n as a Gold Partner. We may have unanticipated increases in capital spending, operating or administrative costs, or seek new business opportunities that require significant up-front investments. We operate in cash-flow-dependent businesses. Our existing networks require large capitalized up-front investments for growth and maintenance. Our operating expenses in the form of payroll for a highly trained workforce and the maintenance cost of telecommunications networks are large uses of cash. Our debt service obligation and any dividends to shareholders also require significant cash each year. New business development may require additional up-front investment in assets and funding of early stage operating losses. Although we establish financial pl ans to attempt to ensure cash is adequate to fund operations, a sudden unanticipated increase in cash outflow after we have already initiated our business plans could alter our future plans, which could possibly affect our growth or ability to maintain our current network infrastructure. Risks related to Regulations The communications industry in which we operate is subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation that could change in a manner adverse to us. Our local telephone businesses in Minnesota and Iowa are subject to extensive regulations that impact the rates we charge, the areas we service, our contracts with suppliers and virtually every facet of our business. Laws and regulations may be, and in some cases have been, challenged in the courts and could be changed by Congress, state legislatures or regulators at any time. New regulations could be imposed by federal or state authorities further impacting our operating costs or capital requirements in a manner that is adverse to us. We cannot predict the impact of future developments or changes to the regulatory environme nt or the impact such developments or changes may have on us. Adverse rulings, legislation or changes in governmental policy on issues material to us could increase our competition, cause customer attrition, decrease our revenue, increase our costs and decrease our profitability. 16 Table of Contents Legislative or regulatory changes could reduce the revenue received from network access charges. Access charges, which are intended to compensate our ILEC and CLEC operations for originating, terminating or transporting long distance and other carriers’ calls in our service areas, accounted for approximately 14% of our total revenue in 2010. The amount of network access charges we receive is based on interstate rates set by the FCC and intrastate rates set by the MPUC and the IUB. The large national carriers who pay these charges have advocated that access charges should be reduced and some network providers have argued that access charges do not apply to specific types of traffic. As our business becomes increasingly competitive, the regulatory disparities regarding n etwork access revenue, the marketplace forces on its pricing levels and our ability to enforce the historical rules for collecting this revenue, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot predict whether or when action may be taken on any of these issues, or what effect any action may have on revenue and costs. We believe that there has been a general increase in the unauthorized use of telecommunications providers’ networks without payment of appropriate access charges, or so-called “phantom traffic,” due in part to advances in technology that have made it easier to use networks while avoiding payment for the traffic. As a general matter, we believe this phantom traffic is due to unintended usage and, in some cases, fraud. While we perform revenue assurance tests regularly, we are at risk for potential claims made against us contesting the applicability of network access charges. If there is a successful dispute or avoidance of the applicability of network access charges, our revenue could decrease causing a material impact to our operations. Legislative or regulatory changes could reduce or eliminate the government subsidies we receive. The federal system of subsidies, from which we derive a portion of our revenue, is subject to modification. In February of 2011 the FCC launched the notice and comment process with the approval of a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking which proposes significant changes to the legacy universal service program and intercarrier compensation regime. It is unclear whether the changes in methodology will continue to accurately reflect the costs incurred by our ILEC operations and whether we will continue to receive the same amount of Federal Universal Service Fund support that we have received in the past. In addition, under the Telecommunications Act of 1996, our competitors may obtain Federal Universal Service Fund subsidies if the MPUC or IUB, as applicable, determine that granting these subsidies to competitors would be in the public interest and the competitors offer certain telephone services as required by the Telecommunications Act of 1996 and the FCC. Under current rules, any such payments to our competitors would not affect the level of subsidies received by our ILEC and CLEC operations, but they would facilitate competitive entry into our ILEC and CLEC service areas and we may not be able to compete as effectively or otherwise continue to operate as profitably. Because of the growing number of competitors receiving Universal Service Fund subsidies, the FCC is considering universal service reforms to limit the size of the fund. Legislative and regulatory changes in the telecommunications industry could raise our costs by facilitating greater competition against us and reduce potential revenue. Legislative and regulatory changes in the communications industry could adversely affect our business by facilitating greater competition, reducing our revenue or raising our costs. For example, federal or state legislatures or regulatory commissions could impose new requirements relating to standards or quality of service, credit and collection policies, or obligations to provide new or enhanced services. Increased regulation of the Internet could decrease our revenue. Currently, there is minimal law and regulation applicable to access to, or commerce on, the Internet. As the significance of the Internet expands, federal, state and local governments may adopt new rules and regulations or apply existing laws and regulations to the Internet. The FCC is currently reviewing the appropriate regulatory framework governing broadband consumer protections for high-speed access to the Internet through telephone and cable TV providers’ communications networks. The outcome of these proceedings may affect our regulatory obligations and costs and competition for our services which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue. 17 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulation that increase our costs of operations and could subject us to liability. Our operations and properties are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, natural resources and worker health and safety that could adversely affect our profitability. We operate under a number of environmental and health and safety laws, including laws and regulations governing and creating liability to, the management, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, asbestos, petroleum products and other regulated materials. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations governing air emissions from our fleets of vehicles. As a result, we face several risks, including the following: · Under certain environmental laws, we could be held liable, jointly and severely and without regard to fault, for the costs of investigating and the remediation of any actual or threatened environmental contamination at currently and formerly owned or operated properties, and those of our predecessors, and for contamination associated with disposal by us or our predecessors of hazardous materials at third party disposal sites, · The presence of contamination can adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell any such affected property or to use it as collateral, · We could be held responsible for third party property damage claims, personal injury claims or natural resource damage claims relating to any such contamination, · The cost of complying with existing environmental requirements could be significant, · Adoption of new environmental laws, regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their interpretations could result in significant compliance costs or as yet identified environmental liabilities, · Future acquisition of businesses or properties subject to environmental requirements or affected by environmental contamination could require us to incur substantial costs relating to such matters, and · In addition, environmental laws regulating wetland, endangered species and other land use and natural resource issues may increase costs associated with future business or expansion opportunities, delay, alter or interfere with such plans, or otherwise adversely affect such plans. The high cost of regulatory compliance could make it more difficult to enter new markets, make acquisitions or change our prices. Regulatory compliance results in significant costs for us and diverts the time and effort of our management and officers away from running the business. In addition, because regulations differ from state to state, we could face significant costs in obtaining information necessary to compete effectively if we try to provide services, such as long distance services, in different states. These information barriers could cause us to incur substantial costs and to encounter significant obstacles and delays in entering these markets. Compliance costs and information barriers could also affect our ability to evaluate and compete for new opportunities to acquire local access lines or businesses as they arise. Our intrastate services are also generally subject to certification, tariff filing and other ongoing state regulatory requirements. Challenges to our tariffs by regulators or third parties or delays in obtaining certifications and regulatory approvals could cause us to incur substantial legal and administrative expenses. If successful, these challenges could adversely affect the rates that we are able to charge to customers, which would negatively affect our revenue. We may incur significant costs associated with lawsuits and regulatory inquiries. Any such claims or regulatory inquiries, whether successful or not, may require us to devote significant amounts of monetary or human resources to defend ourselves. It could be necessary to spend significant amounts on our legal defense and senior management may be required to divert their attention which could detract from their ability to run our business. If as a result of any proceedings, a judgment is rendered or a decree is entered against us, it may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness and Our Capital Structure We have a large balance of senior bank debt outstanding and may incur additional debt in the future, which could restrict our ability to pay dividends and fund our operations. We have senior bank debt outstanding under long-term financing agreements. As of December 31, 2010, we had $118,959,000 of total long-term debt outstanding, including current maturities. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences including: · Requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments on our debt, · Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, · Limiting our ability to borrow additional funds, or to sell assets to raise funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes, · Increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates, and · Placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. We cannot assure you that we will generate sufficient revenue to service and repay our debt and have sufficient funds left over to achieve or sustain profitability in our operations, meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs, compete successfully in our markets or pay dividends to our stockholders. 18 Table of Contents We may not be able to refinance our current debt at favorable terms. Most of the indebtedness under our credit facility matures in 2012 and we anticipate refinancing in the year 2011. Due to turmoil in the credit markets in the past and the economic conditions, we may not be able to refinance maturing debt on terms that are as favorable as those we are benefiting from now, on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we seek additional financing, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, or at all, and our shareholders may experience dilution of their ownership interest if we seek equity financing. We currently anticipate that our available cash resources, which include our ability to generate net cash inflow from our operations, our credit facility, existing cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated needs for working capital, capital expenditures and other fixed charges to execute our near-term business plan, based on current business operations and economic conditions. If our estimates are incorrect and we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations and we expand our credit facility, we may need to rais e additional funds. In addition, if one or more of our strategic growth opportunities exceeds our existing resources, we may be required to seek additional capital. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or equity-related securities, our shareholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of common stock. Our existing debt covenants require a portion of the proceeds of an equity offering be applied to the outstanding debt balance. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional debt, we may be subject to restrictive covenants that could limit our operating flexibility, and increased interest payments could dilute earnings per share. We are subject to risks associated with changes in interest rates. We face market risks from changes in interest rates that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Although we attempt to reduce this risk through the use of derivative financial instruments, we do not enter into derivative instruments for the purpose of speculation. In March 2009, we entered into an interest-rate swap agreement, effectively locking in the interest rate on $80,000,000 of variable-interest rate debt from March 2010 to September 2011. If interest rates fail to rise as anticipated, we will experience higher-than-market-rate interest expense and would have paid for protection that was not needed. We also risk entering a higher interest rate environment when the intere st rate protection agreements expire in 2011. This could affect our future interest expense level. We are subject to the same positive or negative impacts relative to variable rate alternatives as described above for our use of derivative instruments. We are subject to restrictive debt covenants and other requirements related to our outstanding debt that limit our business flexibility by imposing operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit or restrict, among other things, our ability to: · Incur additional debt and issue preferred stock, · The payment of dividends on, and purchase or redemption of, capital stock, · Make investments in excess of a threshold, · Make capital expenditures in excess of a threshold, · Create liens on our assets, · Sell certain assets, · Engage in some transactions with affiliates, · Engage in business other than communications businesses, and · Make other restricted payments, including payments in connection with investments and acquisitions in excess of a threshold. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make acquisitions or fund capital expenditures, withstand downturns in our business or take advantage of business opportunities. Furthermore, the credit facilities also require us to maintain specified total leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios and to satisfy specified financial condition tests, and may require us to make annual mandatory prepayments with a portion of our available cash. Our ability to comply with the ratios may be affected by events beyond our control including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. A breach of any of these covenants contained in our credit agreement could result in a default under our credit facilities. If we were to default, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the credit facilities to be due and payable. If the amounts outstanding under our credit facilities were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay the money in full owed to the lenders or to our other debt holders. 19 Table of Contents Our lenders may not be able to fund cash draws under our credit facility. We have binding contracts with six entities upon which we depend for our daily supply of cash. Five entities are in our senior credit facility: CoBank ACB, Rural Telephone Finance Cooperative, Wachovia Bank NA (a Wells Fargo Company), US Bank NA and General Electric Capital Corporation. These entities operate under a common syndicate agreement using unified terms and conditions. The sixth entity is General Electric Commercial Distribution Finance Corporation with whom we operate a wholesale financing agreement to fund inventory purchased from certain vendors, in an extended term payable arrangement. It provides 60 days interest-free payment terms for the Business Sector working capital purposes. In spite of the contractual obligation of these institutions to perform under the financing agreement, and in spite of our attempts to remain informed of the capability of these institutions to perform their functions for us, we may learn that our request for cash on any given day cannot be fulfilled. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our board of directors could, at its discretion, depart from or change our dividend payment practices at any time. We are not required to pay dividends, do not have a dividend policy and our stockholders are not guaranteed, and do not have contractual or other rights, to receive dividends. Our board of directors may decide at any time, at its discretion, to decrease the amount of dividends, otherwise change or revoke our past dividend payment practices or discontinue entirely the payment of dividends. In addition, if we do not pay dividends for whatever reason, your shares of our common stock could become less liquid and the market price of our common stock could decline. Our ability to pay dividends, and our board of directors’ determination to maintain the dividend declaration, will depend on numerous factors, including the following: · The state of our business, the environment in which we operate and the various risk factors we face, including, but not limited to competition, technological change, industry change, regulatory and other risks summarized in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, · Our future results of operations, financial condition, liquidity needs and capital resources, · Our cash needs, including interest and any future principal payments on our indebtedness, capital expenditures, taxes, pension and other post-retirement contributions and certain other costs, and · Potential sources of liquidity, including borrowing under our revolving credit facility or possible asset sales. While our cash flow available for the year ended December 31, 2010 was sufficient to pay dividends, if our estimated cash flow were to fall below our expectations, our assumptions as to estimated cash needs are too low or if other applicable assumptions were to prove incorrect, we may need to: · Either reduce or eliminate dividends, · Fund dividends by incurring additional debt (to the extent we were permitted to do so under agreements governing our then existing debt), which would increase our leverage, debt repayment obligations and interest expense and decrease our interest coverage, resulting in, among other things, reduced capacity to incur debt for other purposes, including to fund future dividend payments, · Amend the terms of our credit agreement, if our lenders agreed, to permit us to pay dividends or make other payments if we are otherwise not permitted to do so, · Fund dividends from future issuances of equity securities, which could be dilutive to our stockholders and negatively affect the price of our common stock, · Fund dividends from other sources, such as by asset sales or by working capital, which would leave us with less cash available for other purposes, and · Reduce other expected uses of cash, such as capital expenditures. 20 Table of Contents If we continue to pay dividends at the level currently anticipated under our past dividend payment practices, our ability to pursue growth opportunities may be limited. We believe that our dividend payment practices could limit, but not preclude, our ability to grow. If we continue paying dividends at the level anticipated under our past dividend payment practices, we may not retain a sufficient amount of cash and may need to seek financing to fund a material expansion of our business, including any significant acquisitions or to pursue growth opportunities requiring capital expenditures significantly beyond our current expectations. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, our shareholder rights plan and Minnesota law could prevent or delay a change in control of our Company. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, our shareholder rights plan (also known as a “poison pill”) and Minnesota law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder may consider favorable and may limit the market price for our common stock. These provisions include the following: · Authorization for our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval, · Limitations on business combinations with interested shareholders, and · Advance notice requirements for shareholders proposals. Some of these provisions may discourage a future acquisition even though our shareholders would receive an attractive value for their shares or a significant number of our shareholders believe such a proposed transaction would be in their best interest. Our stock price varies. Based on the trading history of our common stock and the nature of the market for publicly traded securities of companies in our industry, we believe that some factors have caused and are likely to continue to cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. These fluctuations could occur day-to-day or over a longer period of time and may be accentuated by the lack of liquidity in our stock. The factors that may cause such fluctuations include, without limitation: · Due to our low liquidity of stock trading volume, any imbalance between period supply and demand in shares offered, · General economic conditions in the United States or internationally, · Our financial health and the financial health of our competitors or our customers, · Trend in stock market trading of our peer companies, · Developments in telecommunications regulations, · Consolidation among our competitors or customers, · Rumors or speculation regarding our future business results and actions, · Increased competition with our competitors or among our customers, · Quarterly fluctuations in our financial results or the financial results of our competitors or customers, · Announcements of new products and services by us or our competitors, and · Disputes concerning intellectual property rights. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 