Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the following risk factors and warnings before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones facing SJW Corp. Additional risks that SJW Corp. does not yet know of or that it currently thinks are immaterial may also impair its business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, SJW Corp.’s business, operating results or financial condition could be materially harmed. In such case, the trading price of SJW Corp.’s common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Investors should also refer to the other information set forth in this Form 10-K, including the financial statements and the notes thereto. 7 Table of Contents The business of SJW Corp. and its subsidiaries may be adversely affected by new and changing legislation, policies and regulations. New legislation and changes in existing legislation by federal, state and local governments and administrative agencies can affect the operations of SJW Corp. and its subsidiaries. The operating revenue of San Jose Water Company results from the sale of water at rates authorized by CPUC. The operating revenue of CLWSC results from the sale of water at rates authorized by TCEQ. The CPUC and TCEQ set rates that are intended to provide revenues sufficient to recover operating expenses and produce a reasonable return on common equity. On November 11, 2006, CPUC issued its final decision in San Jose Water Company’s 2006 General Rate Case proceeding. The decision authorized San Jose Water Company rate increases of approximately $3,500,000 or 2.0% for 2007, $5,400,000 or 3.0% for 2008, and $4,000,000 or 2.2% for 2009. The rate increases for 2008 and 2009 are subject to adjustments based upon the inflation escalation factors realized at the time of the increase. The decision also authorizes additional rate recoveries to be phased in as capital projects are completed over the three-year period and the recovery of approximately $450,000 from San Jose Water Company’s balancing and memorandum accounts. These rate increases are designed to produce a return on common equity of 10.13%, which is comparable with recent authorized returns for water utilities in California. On November 7, 2007, San Jose Water Company filed an advice letter with CPUC requesting implementation of the general rate increase for 2008 of $5,700,000. These rates subsequently became effective January 1, 2008. Additionally, as of December 31, 2007, San Jose Water Company has been authorized all of its offset rate requests. On October 14, 2007, CLWSC filed a request for a rate increase with the TCEQ of $450,000, or about 10%. This rate increase, subject to refund, became effective December 14, 2007. Although the Water Utility Services believe that the rates currently in effect provide it with a reasonable rate of return, there is no guarantee such rates will be sufficient to provide a reasonable rate of return in the future. There is no guarantee that the Water Utility Service’s future rate filings will be able to obtain a satisfactory rate of return in a timely manner. In addition, the Water Utility Services rely on policies and regulations promulgated by the regulators in order to recover capital expenditures, maintain favorable treatment on gains from the sale of real property, offset its production and operating costs, recover the cost of debt, maintain an optimal equity structure without over-leveraging, and have financial and operational flexibility to engage in nonregulated operations. If the regulators implement policies and regulations that will not allow San Jose Water Company and CLWSC to accomplish some or all of the items listed above, the Water Utility Services future operating results may be adversely affected. Recovery of regulatory assets is subject to adjustment by the regulatory agency and could impact the operating results of the Water Utility Services. Generally-accepted accounting principles for water utilities include the recognition of regulatory assets and liabilities as permitted by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 71, “Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation.” In accordance with SFAS No. 71, the Water Utility Services record deferred costs and credits on the balance sheet as regulatory assets and liabilities when it is probable that these costs and credits will be recovered in the ratemaking process in a period different from when the costs and credits were incurred. If the assessment of the probability of recovery in the ratemaking process is incorrect, the regulatory assets or liabilities would need to be adjusted which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Changes in water supply, water supply costs or the mix of water supply could adversely affect the operating results and business of Water Utility Services. San Jose Water Company’s supply of water primarily relies upon three main sources: water purchased from SCVWD, surface water from its Santa Cruz Mountains Watershed, and pumped underground water. Changes and variations in quantities from each of these three sources affect the overall mix of the water supply, thereby affecting the cost of the water supply. Surface water is the least costly source of water. If there is an adverse change to the mix of water supply and San Jose Water Company is not allowed by CPUC to recover the additional or increased water supply costs, its operating results may be adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents SCVWD receives an allotment of water from state and federal water projects. If San Jose Water Company has difficulties obtaining a high quality water supply from SCVWD due to availability, environmental or legal restrictions (see discussion under Item 1. “Business”, “Water Supply”), it may not be able to fully satisfy customer demand in its service area and its operating results and business may be adversely affected. Additionally, the availability of water from San Jose Water Company’s Santa Cruz Mountains Watershed depends on the weather and fluctuates with each season. In a normal year, surface water supply provides 6% to 8% of the total water supply of the system. In a season with little rainfall, water supply from surface water sources may be low, thereby causing San Jose Water Company to increase the amount of water purchased from outside sources at a higher cost than surface water, thus increasing water production costs. In addition, San Jose Water Company’s ability to use surface water is subject to regulations regarding water quality and volume limitations. If new regulations are imposed or existing regulations are changed or given new interpretations, the availability of surface water may be materially reduced. A reduction in surface water could result in the need to procure more costly water from other sources, thereby increasing the water production costs and adversely affecting the operating results of San Jose Water Company. Because the extraction of water from the groundwater basin and the operation of the water distribution system require a significant amount of energy, increases in energy prices could increase operating expenses of San Jose Water Company. In the aftermath of the attempt to deregulate the California energy market, energy costs still remain in flux, with resulting uncertainty in San Jose Water Company’s ability to contain energy costs into the future. San Jose Water Company continues to utilize Pacific Gas & Electric’s time of use rate schedules to minimize its overall energy costs primarily for groundwater pumping. During the winter months, typically 90% or more of the groundwater is produced during off-peak hours when electrical energy is consumed at the lowest rates. Optimization and energy management efficiency is achieved through the implementation of Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition system software applications that control pumps based on demand and cost of energy. An increase in demand or a reduction in the availability of surface water or import water could result in the need to pump more water during peak hours adversely affecting the operating results of San Jose Water Company. CLWSC’s primary water supply is 6,000 acre-feet of water which is pumped from Canyon Lake at two lake intakes, in accordance with the terms of its contracts with the GBRA which are long-term take-or-pay contracts. This supply is supplemented by groundwater pumped from wells. Texas, similar to California, faces similar operating challenges as described above and long-term water supply constraints. Fluctuations in customer demand for water due to seasonality, restrictions of use, weather, and lifestyle can adversely affect operating results. The Water Utility Services operations are seasonal. Thus, results of operations for one quarter do not indicate results to be expected in subsequent quarters. Rainfall and other weather conditions also affect the operations of the Water Utility Services. Most water consumption occurs during the third quarter of each year when weather tends to be warm and dry. In drought seasons, if customers are encouraged and required to conserve water due to a shortage of water supply or restriction of use, revenue tends to be lower. Similarly, in unusually wet seasons, water supply tends to be higher and customer demand tends to be lower, again resulting in lower revenues. Furthermore, certain lifestyle choices made by customers can affect demand for water. For example, a significant portion of residential water use is for outside irrigation of lawns and landscaping. If there is a decreased desire by customers to maintain landscaping for their homes, residential water demand could decrease, which may result in lower revenues. Conservation efforts and construction codes, which require the use of low-flow plumbing fixtures, could diminish water consumption and result in reduced revenue. A contamination event or other decline in source water quality could affect the water supply of the Water Utility Services and therefore adversely affect the business and operating results. The Water Utility Services are subject to certain water quality risks relating to environmental regulations. Through water quality compliance programs, the Water Utility Services continually monitor for contamination and pollution of its sources of water. In addition, a Watershed Management Program provides a proactive approach to minimize potential contamination activities. In the event of a contamination, the Water Utility Services will likely have to procure water from more costly sources and increase future capital expenditures. Although the costs would likely be recovered in the form of higher rates, there can be no assurance that the regulators would approve a rate increase to recover the costs. 9 Table of Contents The Water Utility Services are subject to litigation risks concerning water quality and contamination. Although the Water Utility Services have not been and are not a party to any environmental and product-related lawsuits, such lawsuits against other water utilities have increased in frequency in recent years. If the Water Utility Services are subject to an environmental or product-related lawsuit, they might incur significant legal costs and it is uncertain whether they would be able to recover the legal costs from ratepayers or other third parties. The Water Utility Services have product liability coverage for bodily injury and property damage. However, pollution is excluded from this coverage. Our pollution liability policy does not extend coverage for product liability. Currently, the CPUC in California has preemptive jurisdiction over regulated water utilities for claims about compliance with environmental quality matters. New or more stringent environmental regulations could increase the Water Utility Services operating costs and affect its business. The Water Utility Services operations are subject to water quality and pollution control regulations issued by the EPA and environmental laws and regulations administered by the respective states and local regulatory agencies. Stringent environmental and water quality regulations could increase Water Utility Services water quality compliance costs, hamper the Water Utility Service’s available water supplies, and increase future capital expenditure. Under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, the Water Utility Services are subject to regulation by the EPA of the quality of water it sells and treatment techniques it uses to make the water potable. The EPA promulgates nationally applicable standards, including maximum contaminant levels for drinking water. The Water Utility Services are currently in compliance with all of the 87 primary maximum contaminant levels promulgated to date. Additional or more stringent requirements may be adopted by each state. There can be no assurance that the Water Utility Services will be able to continue to comply with all water quality requirements. The Water Utility Services have implemented monitoring activities and installed specific water treatment improvements enabling it to comply with existing maximum contaminant levels and plan for compliance with future drinking water regulations. However, the EPA and the respective state agencies have continuing authority to issue additional regulations under the Safe Drinking Water Act. It is possible that new or more stringent environmental standards could be imposed that will raise the Water Utility Services operating costs. Future drinking water regulations may require increased monitoring, additional treatment of underground water supplies, fluoridation of all supplies, more stringent performance standards for treatment plants and procedures to further reduce levels of disinfection by-products. The Water Utility Services continues to seek mechanisms for recovery of government-mandated environmental compliance costs. There are currently limited regulatory mechanisms and procedures available to the company for the recovery of such costs and there can be no assurance that such costs will be fully recovered. Costs associated with security precautions may have an adverse effect on the operating results of the Water Utility Services. Water utility companies have generally been on a heightened state of alert since the threats to the nation’s health and security in the fall of 2001. San Jose Water Company has taken steps to increase security at its water utility facilities and continues to implement a comprehensive security upgrade program for production and storage facilities, pump stations and company buildings. San Jose Water Company also coordinates security and planning information with SCVWD, other Bay Area water utilities and various governmental and law enforcement agencies. San Jose Water Company conducted a system-wide vulnerability assessment in compliance with federal regulations Public Law 107-188 imposed on all water utilities. The assessment report was filed with the EPA on March 31, 2003. San Jose Water Company has also actively participated in the security vulnerability assessment training offered by the American Water Works Association Research Foundation and the EPA. 10 Table of Contents The vulnerability assessment identified system security enhancements that impact water quality, health, safety, and continuity of service totaling approximately $2,300,000. These improvements were incorporated into the capital budgets and were completed as of December 31, 2006. San Jose Water Company has and will continue to bear costs associated with additional security precautions to protect its water utility business and other operations. While some of these costs are likely to be recovered in the form of higher rates, there can be no assurance that CPUC will approve a rate increase to recover all or part of such costs and, as a result, the company’s operating results and business may be adversely affected. CLWSC is evaluating its security measures to mitigate any potential vulnerabilities. The Water Utility Services rely on information technology and systems that are key to business operations, therefore a disruption in service could adversely effect business operations. Information technology is key to the operation of the Water Utility Services, including but not limited to bill printing, bill remittance processing, providing customer service and the use of Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition systems to operate the distribution system. A disruption of a business system that supports any of these functions could significantly impact our ability to provide services to our customers. SJW Land Company’s significant increase in its real estate portfolio. SJW Land Company owns a diversified real estate portfolio in multiple states. The risks in investing directly in real estate vary depending on the investment strategy and investment objective. · Liquidity risk—real estate investment is illiquid. The lag time to build or reduce its portfolio is long. · Obsolescence risk—real estate property is location specific. Location obsolescence can occur due to a decline of a particular sub-market or neighborhood. Functional obsolescence can also occur from physical depreciation, wear and tear, and other architectural and physical features which could be curable or incurable. · Market and general economic risks—real estate investment is tied to overall domestic economic growth and, therefore, carries market risk which cannot be eliminated by diversification. Generally, all property types benefit from national economic growth, though the benefits range according to local factors such as local supply and demand and job creation. Because real estate leases are typically staggered and last for multiple years, there is generally a lag effect in the performance of real estate in relation to the overall economy. This lag effect can insulate or deteriorate the financial impact to SJW Land Company in a downturn or an improved economic environment. Vacancy rates can climb and market rents can be impacted and weakened by general economic forces, therefore affecting income to SJW Land Company. The value of real estate can drop materially due to a deflationary market, decline in rental income, market cycle of supply and demand, long lag time in real estate development, legislative and governmental actions, environmental concerns, and fluctuation of interest rates, eroding any unrealized capital appreciation and, potentially, invested capital. · Credit risk—the risk of a tenant declaring bankruptcy and seeking relief from its contractual rental obligation could affect the income and the financial results of SJW Land Company. Diversification of many tenants across many properties may mitigate the risk, but can never eliminate it. This risk is most prevalent in a recessionary environment. The success of SJW Land Company’s real estate investment strategy depends largely on ongoing local, state and federal land use development activities and regulations, future economic conditions, the development and fluctuations in the sale of the undeveloped properties, the ability to identify the developer/potential buyer of the available for sale real estate, the timing of the transaction, favorable tax law, the ability to identify and acquire high quality, relatively low risk replacement property at reasonable terms and conditions, and the ability to maintain and manage the replacement property. Other factors that could affect operating results. Other factors that could adversely affect the operating results of SJW Corp. and its subsidiaries include the following: · SJW Corp.’s growth strategy depends on its ability to acquire water systems in order to broaden its service areas, SJW Land Company’s ability to continue to develop and invest in real estate investments at favorable terms, and San Jose Water Company’s ability to continue to broaden and expand its nonregulated contract services in the metropolitan San Jose area. The execution of SJW Corp.’s growth strategy will expose it to different risks than those associated with the current utility operations. Costs are incurred in connection with the execution of the growth strategy and risks are involved in potential integration of acquired businesses/properties which could require significant costs and cause diversion of management’s time and resources. Any future acquisition SJW Corp. decides to undertake may involve risks and have a material adverse effect on SJW Corp.’s core business, impact SJW Corp.’s ability to finance its business and affect its compliance with regulatory requirements. Any businesses SJW Corp. acquires may not achieve sales, customer growth and projected profitability that would justify the investment. Any difficulties SJW Corp. encounters in the integration process, including the integration of controls necessary for internal control and financial reporting, could interfere with its operations, reduce its operating margins and adversely affect its internal controls. 11 Table of Contents · The level of labor and non-labor operating and maintenance expenses as affected by inflationary forces and collective bargaining power could adversely affect the operating and maintenance expenses of SJW Corp. · The City of Cupertino lease operation could be adversely affected by: (1) the level of capital requirements, (2) the ability of San Jose Water Company to raise rates through the Cupertino City Council, and (3) the level of operating and maintenance expenses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 