Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the following risk factors and warnings before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones facing SJW Corp. Additional risks that SJW Corp. does not yet know of or that it currently thinks are immaterial may also impair its business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, SJW Corp.’s business, operating results or financial condition could be materially harmed. In such case, the trading price of SJW Corp.’s common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Investors should also refer to the other information set forth in this Form 10-K, including the financial statements and the notes thereto. Our business is regulated and may be adversely affected by changes to the regulatory environment. San Jose Water Company and CLWSC are regulated public utilities. The operating revenue of San Jose Water Company and CLWSC result primarily from the sale of water at rates authorized by the CPUC and the TCEQ, respectively. The CPUC and TCEQ set rates that are intended to provide revenues sufficient to recover operating expenses, provide funds for adding new or replacing water infrastructure and produce a fair and reasonable return on common equity. Please refer to Part I, Item 1, “Regulation and Rates” for a discussion of the most recent rate cases for San Jose Water Company, which has authorized rates for 2010 through 2012, and for CLWSC. In our applications for rate approvals, we rely upon estimates and forecasts to propose rates for approval by the CPUC or TCEQ. No assurance can be given that our estimates and forecasts will be correct or that the CPUC or TCEQ will agree with our estimates and forecasts and approve our proposed rates. To the extent our authorized rates may be too low, revenues may be insufficient to cover Water Utility Services’ operating expenses, capital requirements and SJW Corp.’s historical dividend rate. In addition, delays in approving rate increases may negatively affect our operating results. In addition, policies and regulations promulgated by the regulators govern the recovery of capital expenditures, the treatment of gains from the sale of real property, the offset of production and operating costs, the recovery of the cost of debt, the optimal equity structure, and the financial and operational flexibility to engage in non-tariffed operations. If the regulators implement policies and regulations that will not allow San Jose Water Company and CLWSC to accomplish some or all of the items listed above, Water Utility Services’ future operating results may be adversely affected. Further, from time to time, the commissioners at the CPUC and the TCEQ change. For example, in California, the newly elected Governor recently appointed two new commissioners to the CPUC, and a third position remains open. Such changes could lead to changes in policies and regulations. There can be no assurance that the resulting changes in policies and regulation will not adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. Recovery of regulatory assets is subject to adjustment by the regulatory agency and could impact the operating results of Water Utility Services. Generally accepted accounting principles for water utilities include the recognition of regulatory assets and liabilities as permitted by Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standard Codification (ASC) Topic 980—“Regulated Operations.” In accordance with ASC Topic 980, Water Utility Services record deferred costs and credits on the balance sheet as regulatory assets and liabilities when it is probable that these costs and credits will be recovered in the ratemaking process in a period different from when the costs and credits were incurred. If the assessment of the probability of recovery in the ratemaking process is incorrect and the applicable ratemaking body determines that a deferred cost is not recoverable through future rate increases, the regulatory assets or liabilities would need to be adjusted, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. 10 Table of Contents Changes in water supply, water supply costs or the mix of water supply could adversely affect the operating results and business of Water Utility Services. San Jose Water Company’s supply of water primarily relies upon three main sources: water purchased from SCVWD, surface water from its Santa Cruz Mountains Watershed, and pumped underground water. Changes and variations in quantities from each of these three sources affect the overall mix of the water supply, thereby affecting the cost of the water supply. Surface water is the least costly source of water. If there is an adverse change to the mix of water supply and San Jose Water Company is not allowed by the CPUC to recover the additional or increased water supply costs, its operating results may be adversely affected. SCVWD receives an allotment of water from state and federal water projects. If San Jose Water Company has difficulties obtaining a high quality water supply from SCVWD due to availability, environmental, legal or other restrictions (see also Part I, Item 1, “Water Supply”), it may not be able to fully satisfy customer demand in its service area and its operating results and business may be adversely affected. Additionally, the availability of water from San Jose Water Company’s Santa Cruz Mountains Watershed depends on the weather and fluctuates with each season. In a normal year, surface water supply provides 6% to 8% of the total water supply of the system. In a season with little rainfall, water supply from surface water sources may be low, thereby causing San Jose Water Company to increase the amount of water purchased from outside sources at a higher cost than surface water, thus increasing water production costs. In addition, San Jose Water Company’s ability to use surface water is subject to regulations regarding water quality and volume limitations. If new regulations are imposed or existing regulations are changed or given new interpretations, the availability of surface water may be materially reduced. A reduction in surface water could result in the need to procure more costly water from other sources, thereby increasing overall water production costs and adversely affecting the operating results of San Jose Water Company. Because the extraction of water from the groundwater basin and the operation of the water distribution system require a significant amount of energy, increases in energy prices could increase operating expenses of San Jose Water Company. In the aftermath of the attempt to deregulate the California energy market, energy costs in California continue to be in flux, and therefore San Jose Water Company cannot be certain that it will be able to contain energy costs into the future. San Jose Water Company continues to utilize Pacific Gas & Electric’s time of use rate schedules to minimize its overall energy costs primarily for groundwater pumping. Optimization and energy management efficiency is achieved through the implementation of Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition system software applications that control pumps based on demand and cost of energy. An increase in demand or a reduction in the availability of surface water or import water could result in the need to pump more water during peak hours adversely affecting the operating results of San Jose Water Company. CLWSC’s primary water supply is 6,700 acre-feet of water which is pumped from Canyon Lake at two lake intakes, in accordance with the terms of its contracts with the GBRA, which are long-term take-or-pay contracts. This supply is supplemented by groundwater pumped from wells. Texas, similar to California, faces similar operating challenges as described above and long-term water supply constraints. (See also Part I, Item 1, “Water Supply”) Fluctuations in customer demand for water due to seasonality, restrictions of use, weather, and lifestyle can adversely affect operating results. Water Utility Services’ operations are seasonal, thus quarterly fluctuation in results of operations may be significant. Rainfall and other weather conditions also affect the operations of Water Utility Services. Most water consumption occurs during the third quarter of each year when weather tends to be warm and dry. In drought seasons, if customers are encouraged or required to conserve water due to a shortage of water supply or restriction of use, revenue tends to be lower. Similarly, in unusually wet seasons, water supply tends to be higher and customer demand tends to be lower, again resulting in lower revenues. Furthermore, certain lifestyle choices made by customers can affect demand for water. For example, a significant portion of residential water use is for outside irrigation of lawns and landscaping. If there is a decreased desire by customers to maintain landscaping for their homes, residential water demand could decrease, which may result in lower revenues. Conservation efforts and construction codes, which require the use of low-flow plumbing fixtures, could diminish water consumption and result in reduced revenue. (See also Part I, Item 1, “Water Supply”) 11 Table of Contents A contamination event or other decline in source water quality could affect the water supply of Water Utility Services and therefore adversely affect our business and operating results. Water Utility Services is required under environmental regulations to comply with water quality requirements. Through water quality compliance programs, Water Utility Services continually monitors for contamination and pollution of its sources of water. In addition, a Watershed Management Program provides a proactive approach to minimize potential contamination activities. There can be no assurance that SJW Corp. will continue to comply with all applicable water quality requirements. In the event a contamination is detected, Water Utility Services must either commence treatment to remove the contaminant or procure water from an alternative source. Either of these results may be costly, may increase future capital expenditures and there can be no assurance that the regulators would approve a rate increase to enable us to recover the costs arising from these remedies. In addition, we could be held liable for consequences arising from hazardous substances in our water supplies or other environmental damages. Our insurance policies may not be sufficient to cover the costs of these claims. Water Utility Services is subject to litigation risks concerning water quality and contamination. Although Water Utility Services has not been and are not a party to any environmental and product-related lawsuits, such lawsuits against other water utilities have increased in frequency in recent years. If Water Utility Services is subject to an environmental or product-related lawsuit, they might incur significant legal costs and it is uncertain whether it would be able to recover the legal costs from ratepayers or other third parties. Although Water Utility Services has product liability insurance coverage for bodily injury and property damage, pollution is excluded from this coverage. In addition, our pollution liability policy does not extend coverage for product liability. New or more stringent environmental regulations could increase Water Utility Services’ operating costs and affect its business. Water Utility Services’ operations are subject to water quality and pollution control regulations issued by the EPA and environmental laws and regulations administered by the respective states and local regulatory agencies. Stringent environmental and water quality regulations could increase Water Utility Services’ water quality compliance costs, hamper Water Utility Services’ available water supplies, and increase future capital expenditure. Under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, Water Utility Services is subject to regulation by the EPA of the quality of water it sells and treatment techniques it uses to make the water potable. The EPA promulgates nationally applicable standards, including maximum contaminant levels for drinking water. Water Utility Services is currently in compliance with all of the primary maximum contaminant levels promulgated to date. Additional or more stringent requirements may be adopted by each state. There can be no assurance that Water Utility Services will be able to continue to comply with all water quality requirements. Water Utility Services has implemented monitoring activities and installed specific water treatment improvements enabling it to comply with existing maximum contaminant levels and plan for compliance with future drinking water regulations. However, the EPA and the respective state agencies have continuing authority to issue additional regulations under the Safe Drinking Water Act. It is possible that new or more stringent environmental standards could be imposed that will raise Water Utility Services’ operating costs. Future drinking water regulations may require increased monitoring, additional treatment of underground water supplies, fluoridation of all supplies, more stringent performance standards for treatment plants and procedures to further reduce levels of disinfection by-products. Water Utility Services continues to seek mechanisms for recovery of government-mandated environmental compliance costs. There are currently limited regulatory mechanisms and procedures available to the company for the recovery of such costs and there can be no assurance that such costs will be fully recovered. Water Utility Services rely on information technology and systems that are key to business operations, therefore a disruption in service could adversely affect business operations. Information technology is key to the operation of Water Utility Services, including but not limited to bill remittance processing, providing customer service and the use of Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition systems to operate the distribution system. A disruption of a business system that supports any of these functions could significantly impact our ability to provide services to our customers and adversely affect our operating results. 12 Table of Contents The water utility business requires significant capital expenditures that are dependent on our ability to secure appropriate funding. If SJW Corp. is unable to obtain sufficient capital or if the rates at which we borrow increase, there would be a negative impact on our results of operations. The water utility business is capital-intensive. SJW Corp. funds capital expenditures through a variety of sources, including cash received from operations, funds received from developers as contributions or advances and borrowing. We cannot provide any assurance that the historical sources of funds for capital expenditures will continue to be adequate or that the cost of funds will remain at levels permitting us to earn a reasonable rate of return. A significant change in any of the funding sources could impair the ability of Water Utility Services to fund its capital expenditures, which could impact our ability to grow our utility asset base and earnings. Any increase in the cost of capital through higher interest rates or otherwise could adversely affect our results of operations. Our ability to borrow funds may be affected by the ongoing national and international financial crisis. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets or further deteriorations in the strength of financial institutions could adversely affect SJW Corp.’s ability to draw on its line of credit or issue long-term debt. In addition, government policies, the state of the credit markets and other factors could result in increased interest rates, which would increase SJW Corp.’s cost of capital. We operate in areas subject to natural disasters or that may be the target of terrorist activities. We operate in areas that are prone to earthquakes, fires and other natural disasters. A significant seismic event in northern California, where the majority of our operations are concentrated, or other natural disaster in northern California or Texas could adversely impact our ability to deliver water to our customers and our costs of operations. A major disaster could damage or destroy substantial capital assets. The CPUC and TCEQ have historically allowed utilities to establish catastrophic event memorandum accounts as a possible mechanism to recover costs. However, we can give no assurance that the CPUC, TCEQ, or any other commission would allow any such cost recovery mechanism in the future. In light of the threats to the nation’s health and security since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, we have taken steps to increase security measures at our facilities and heighten employee awareness of threats to our water supply. We have also tightened our security measures regarding the delivery and handling of certain chemicals used in our business. We have and will continue to bear increased costs for security precautions to protect our facilities, operations and supplies. These costs may be significant. While some of these costs are likely to be recovered in the form of higher rates, there can be no assurance that the CPUC will approve a rate increase to recover all or part of such costs and, as a result, the company’s operating results and business may be adversely affected. Further, despite these tightened security measures, we may not be in a position to control the outcome of terrorist events should they occur. A failure of our reservoirs, storage tanks, mains or distribution networks could result in losses and damages that may affect our financial condition and reputation. We distribute water through an extensive network of mains and store water in reservoirs and storage tanks located across our service areas. A failure of major mains, reservoirs, or tanks could result in injuries and damage to residential and/or commercial property for which we may be responsible, in whole or in part. The failure of major mains, reservoirs or tanks may also result in the need to shut down some facilities or parts of our water distribution network in order to conduct repairs. Such failures and shutdowns may limit our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers and to meet the water delivery requirements prescribed by governmental regulators, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity and reputation. Any business interruption or other losses might not be covered by insurance policies or be recoverable in rates, and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance in the future at acceptable rates. SJW Land Company has a significant real estate portfolio. SJW Land Company owns a diversified real estate portfolio in multiple states. The risks in investing directly in real estate vary depending on the investment strategy and investment objective. • Liquidity risk—real estate investment is illiquid. The lag time to build or reduce its portfolio is long. • Obsolescence risk—real estate property is location specific. Location obsolescence can occur due to a decline of a particular sub-market or neighborhood. Functional obsolescence can also occur from physical depreciation, wear and tear, and other architectural and physical features which could be curable or incurable. 13 Table of Contents • Market and general economic risks—real estate investment is tied to overall domestic economic growth and, therefore, carries market risk which cannot be eliminated by diversification. Generally, all property types benefit from national economic growth, though the benefits range according to local factors, such as local supply and demand and job creation. Because real estate leases are typically staggered and last for multiple years, there is generally a delayed effect in the performance of real estate in relation to the overall economy. This delayed effect can insulate or deteriorate the financial impact to SJW Land Company in a downturn or an improved economic environment. Vacancy rates can climb and market rents can be impacted and weakened by general economic forces, therefore affecting income to SJW Land Company. The value of real estate can drop materially due to a deflationary market, decline in rental income, market cycle of supply and demand, long lag time in real estate development, legislative and governmental actions, environmental concerns, increases in rates of returns demanded by investors, and fluctuation of interest rates, eroding any unrealized capital appreciation and, potentially, invested capital. A drop in the value of a real estate property or increase in vacancy could result in reduced future cash flows to amounts below the property’s current carrying value and result in an impairment charge if we determine the carrying value is below fair value. • Concentration/Credit risk—the risk of a tenant declaring bankruptcy and seeking relief from its contractual rental obligation could affect the income and the financial results of SJW Land Company. Diversification of many tenants across many properties may mitigate the risk, but can never eliminate it. This risk is most prevalent in a recessionary environment. The success of SJW Land Company’s real estate investment strategy depends largely on ongoing local, state and federal land use development activities and regulations, future economic conditions, the development and fluctuations in the sale of the undeveloped properties, the ability to identify the developer/potential buyer of the available-for-sale real estate, the timing of the transaction, favorable tax law, the ability to identify and acquire high quality, relatively low risk replacement property at reasonable terms and conditions, and the ability to maintain and manage the replacement property. There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends in the future or, if dividends are paid, that they will be in amounts similar to past dividends. Dividends on our common stock will only be paid if and when declared by our Board of Directors. Our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, applicable regulations and other factors, including the timeliness and adequacy of rate increases, will determine both our ability to pay dividends on common stock and the amount of the dividends declared by our Board of Directors. There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends in the future or, if dividends are paid, that they will be in amounts similar to past dividends. Our business strategy, which includes acquiring water systems, developing and investing in real estate and expanding nonregulated contract services, will expose us to new risks which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business strategy focuses on the following: (1) regional regulated water utility operations, (2) regional nonregulated water utility related services provided in accordance with the guidelines established by the CPUC in California and the TCEQ in Texas, and (3) out-of-region water and utility related services, primarily in the Western United States. The execution of our business strategy will expose us to different risks than those associated with the current utility operations. Costs are incurred in connection with the execution of our business strategy and risks are involved in potential integration of acquired businesses/properties which could require significant costs and cause diversion of management’s time and resources. Any future acquisition we decide to undertake may involve risks and have a material adverse effect on our core business, impact our ability to finance our business and affect our compliance with regulatory requirements. Any businesses we acquire may not achieve sales, customer growth and projected profitability that would justify the investment. Any difficulties we encounter in the integration process, including the integration of controls necessary for internal control and financial reporting, could interfere with our operations, reduce our operating margins and adversely affect our internal controls. 14 Table of Contents Other factors that could affect operating results. Other factors that could adversely affect our operating results include the following: • The level of labor and non-labor operating and maintenance expenses as affected by inflationary forces and collective bargaining power could adversely affect our operating and maintenance expenses. • The City of Cupertino lease operation could be adversely affected by: (1) the level of capital requirements, (2) the ability of San Jose Water Company to raise rates through the Cupertino City Council, and (3) the level of operating and maintenance expenses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 