Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information Certain statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in other statements that we make from time to time in filings by the Company with the SEC, in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by or with the approval of the Company which are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Examples of forward-looking statements include: (a) projections of income or expense, earnings per share, the payment or non-payment of dividends, capital structure and other financial items; (b) statements of plans and objectives of the Company or our Board of Directors or management, including those relating to products and services; (c) statements of future economic performance; (d) statements of future customer attraction or retention; and (d) statements of assumptions underlying these statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements preceded by or that include the words or phrases “anticipates”, “believes”, “plans”, “intends”, “expects”, “projects”, “estimates”, “should”, “may”, “would be”, “will allow”, “will likely result”, “will continue”, “will remain”, or similar expressions. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a “safe harbor” for forward-looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective information so long as those statements are identified as forward-looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. We desire to take advantage of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Act. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those predicted by the forward-looking statements because of various factors and possible events, including those factors identified below. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, risks and uncertainties inherent in the national and regional banking industry, changes in economic conditions in the market areas in which the Company and its subsidiaries operate, changes in policies by regulatory agencies, changes in accounting standards and policies, changes in tax laws, fluctuations in interest rates, demand for loans in the market areas in which the Company and its subsidiaries operate, increases in FDIC insurance premiums, changes in the competitive environment, losses of significant customers, geopolitical events, the loss of key personnel and other factors. There is also the risk that the Company’s management or Board of Directors incorrectly analyzes these risks and forces, or that the strategies the Company develops to address them are unsuccessful. Forward-looking statements speak only as of that date on which they are made. Except as may be required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statement is made to reflect unanticipated events. All forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or any person acting on our behalf are qualified in their entirety by the following cautionary statements. 22 Changes in economic conditions could adversely affect our earnings, as our borrowers’ ability to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing our loans decline. Our success depends to a large extent upon local and national economic conditions, as well as governmental fiscal and monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our control can adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, our earnings and our capital. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, additional decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings and cash flows. We continue to experience difficult economic conditions and high unemployment in our market areas and a significant continued decline in the economy in our market areas could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of these economic conditions, the Company’s future earnings may be susceptible to declining credit conditions in the markets in which we operate. Our earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. The policies of the Federal Reserve Board impact us significantly. The Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies directly and indirectly influence the rate of interest earned on loans and paid on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits, and can also affect the value of financial instruments we hold. Those policies determine to a significant extent our cost of funds for lending and investing. Changes in those policies are beyond our control and are difficult to predict. Federal Reserve Board policies can also affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. For example, a tightening of the money supply by the Federal Reserve Board could reduce the demand for a borrower’s products and services. This could adversely affect the borrower’s earnings and ability to repay its loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our earnings depend substantially on our interest spread, which is the difference between the rates we earn on loans, securities and other earning assets and the interest rates we pay on deposits and other borrowings. These rates will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside of our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. While we have taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing rate environment, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. As market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our actual loan losses exceed our allowance for loan losses, our net income will decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance, which when combined, we refer to as the allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual credit losses, and future provisions for credit losses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our allowance for loan losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses. We cannot assure you that we will not further increase the allowance for loan losses or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 23 FDIC insurance premiums may increase materially, which could negatively affect our profitability. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including State Bank. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. During 2008 and 2009, there were higher levels of bank failures which dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the deposit insurance fund. The FDIC collected a special assessment in 2009 to replenish the Deposit Insurance Fund and also required a prepayment of an estimated amount of future deposit insurance premiums. If the costs of future bank failures increase, deposit insurance premiums may also increase. Legislative or regulatory changes could adversely impact our businesses. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. We are subject to state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations. Laws and regulations may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, and not to benefit our shareholders. The impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact us. In light of current conditions in the global financial markets and the global economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Most recently, the federal government has intervened on an unprecedented scale in responding to the stresses experienced in the global financial markets. Some of the laws enacted by Congress and regulations promulgated by the federal banking regulators subject us and other financial institutions to additional restrictions, oversight or costs that may have an impact on our business, results of operations or the price of our common shares. Changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance We are subject to extensive federal, state and local taxes, including income, exise, sales/use, payroll, franchise, withholding and ad valorem taxes. Changes to our taxes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our customers are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local taxes. Changes in taxes paid by our customers may adversely affect their ability to purchase homes or consumer products, which could adversely affect their demand for our loans and deposit products. In addition, such negative effects on our customers could result in defaults on the loans we have made. The Dodd-Frank Act may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States. There are a number of reform provisions that are likely to significantly impact the ways in which banks and bank holding companies, including the Corporation and the Bank, do business. Many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will not be implemented immediately and will require interpretation and rule making by federal regulators. The Company is closely monitoring all relevant sections of the Dodd-Frank Act to ensure continued compliance with laws and regulations. While the ultimate effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on the Company and its subsidiaries cannot currently be determined, the law and its implemented rules and regulations are likely to result in increased compliance costs and fees paid to regulators, along with possible restrictions on the operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, all of which may have a material adverse affect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. We may be a defendant from time to time in a variety of litigation and other actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Company and its subsidiaries may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation arising out of our businesses. The risk of litigation increases in times of increased troubled loan collection activity. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. 24 Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our success depends upon the continued service of our senior management team and upon our ability to attract and retain qualified financial services personnel. Competition for qualified employees is intense. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or attract additional qualified personnel. If we lose the services of our key personnel, or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend upon the accuracy and completeness of information about customers. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers, we may rely on information provided to us by customers, including financial statements and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of customers as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to a business, we may assume that the customer’s audited financial statements conform with generally accepted accounting principles and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer, and we may also rely on the audit report covering those financial statements. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we rely on financial statements that do not comply with generally accepted accounting principles or that are materially misleading. Our ability to pay cash dividends is limited, and we may be unable to pay cash dividends in the future even if we elect to do so. We are dependent primarily upon the earnings of our operating subsidiaries for funds to pay dividends on our common shares. The payment of dividends by us is also subject to regulatory restrictions. As a result, any payment of dividends in the future will be dependent, in large part, on our ability to satisfy these regulatory restrictions and our subsidiaries’ earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors. In January 2010, the Company announced the suspension of quarterly cash dividends. There can be no assurance as to if or when the Company might be able to pay dividends again or as to the amount of any dividends which may be declared and paid to shareholders in future periods. Our continued failure to pay dividends on our common shares could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. A limited trading market exists for our common shares which could lead to price volatility. Your ability to sell or purchase our common shares depends upon the existence of an active trading market for our common shares. While our stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market, it trades infrequently. As a result, you may be unable to sell or purchase our common shares at the volume, price and time you desire. The limited trading market for our common shares may cause fluctuations in the market value of our common shares to be exaggerated, leading to price volatility in excess of that which would occur in a more active trading market. The preparation of our financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. Two of our most critical estimates are the level of the allowance for loan losses and the accounting for goodwill and other intangibles. Because of the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide complete assurance that we will not be required to adjust earnings for significant unexpected loan losses, nor that we will not recognize a material provision for impairment of our goodwill. For additional information regarding these critical estimates, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations beginning on page 32 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 25 Changes in accounting standards could impact our results of operations. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially affect how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which would result in the restatement of our financial statements for prior periods. Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, federal banking agencies have proposed extensive changes to their capital requirements, including raising required amounts and eliminating the inclusion of certain instruments from the calculation of capital. The final form of such regulations and their impact on the Company is unknown at this time, but may require us to raise additional capital. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital if and when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The effect of changes to the healthcare laws in the United States may increase our healthcare costs and negatively impact our financial results. We offer healthcare coverage to our eligible employees with part of the cost subsidized by the Company. With recent changes to the healthcare laws in the United States becoming effective in 2014, more of our employees may choose to participate in our health insurance plans, which could increase our costs for such coverage and material adversely impact our costs of operations. The expiration of unlimited FDIC insurance coverage of non-interest bearing transaction accounts effective December 31, 2012, may have an adverse effect on our liquidity and cost of funds. The Dodd-Frank Act provided for unlimited FDIC insurance coverage of non-interest bearing transaction accounts through December 31, 2012. The end of such insurance may cause us to lose certain large deposits or may result in our needing to pledge additional securities to secure public funds deposits, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. In order to ensure adequate liquidity, we may need to raise rates we pay on deposits, resulting in a decrease in profitability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 26 