Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information Certain statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in other statements that we make from time to time in filings by the Company with the SEC, in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by or with the approval of the Company which are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include statements preceded by or that include the words or phrases “anticipates,” “believes,” “plans,” “intends,” “expects,” “projects,” “estimates,” “should,” “may,” “would be,” “will allow,” “will likely result,” “will continue,” “will remain,” or similar expressions. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a “safe harbor” for forward-looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective information so long as those statements are identified as forward-looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. We desire to take advantage of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Act. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those predicted by the forward-looking statements because of various factors and possible events, including those factors identified below. There is also the risk that the Company’s management or Board of Directors incorrectly analyzes these risks and forces, or that the strategies the Company develops to address them are unsuccessful. Forward-looking statements speak only as of that date on which they are made. Except as may be required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statement is made to reflect unanticipated events. All forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or any person acting on our behalf are qualified in their entirety by the following cautionary statements. Adverse economic conditions in our markets could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As a consequence of the current U.S. recession, businesses across a wide range of industries face serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the markets in which we do business could adversely affect our businesses by, among other things, decreasing the demand for loans and other products and services that we offer, causing impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill, and increasing the number of borrowers who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented and may adversely affect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year and have reached unprecedented levels in recent months. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. 24. Recent developments in the residential mortgage and related markets and the economy may adversely affect our business. The residential mortgage market in the United States, including Ohio, has been negatively impacted recently by increasing rates and payments on adjustable-rate mortgages, decreasing housing values, increased credit standards for borrowers and other economic factors. As a result, delinquencies, foreclosures and losses with respect to residential construction and mortgage loans have increased and may continue to increase. Additionally, the lower housing prices and appraisal values may result in additional delinquencies and loan losses. While the residential real estate loans held in our portfolio are typically originated using conservative underwriting standards and do not include sub-prime loans, we do originate and hold fixed- and adjustable-rate loans and residential construction loans. If the residential loan market continues to deteriorate, especially in our local markets, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our earnings depend substantially on our interest spread, which is the difference between the rates we earn on loans, securities and other earning assets and the interest rates we pay on deposits and other borrowings. These rates will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside of our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. While we have taken measures intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing rate environment, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective in avoiding undue interest rate risk. As market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits, which will result in a decrease in net interest income and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in an extremely competitive market, and our business will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. In our market area, we encounter significant competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies and other financial institutions. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. If we fail to adequately address each of the competitive pressures in the banking industry, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If our actual loan losses exceed our allowance for loan losses, our net income will decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance, which when combined, we refer to as the allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual credit losses, and future provisions for credit losses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our allowance for loan losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses. We cannot assure you that we will not further increase the allowance for loan losses or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 25. Our earnings are significantly affected by federal regulation and the monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. Any changes to state and federal banking laws and regulations may negatively impact our ability to expand our services and to increase the value of our business. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision, and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations. These laws may change from time to time and are mainly intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds. In addition, our earnings are affected by the monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. These policies, which include regulating the national supply of bank reserves and bank credit, can have a major effect upon the source and cost of funds and the rates of return earned on loans and investments. The Federal Reserve influences the size and distribution of bank reserves through its open market operations and changes in cash reserve requirements against member bank deposits. Future changes in laws or regulations or their interpretation or enforcement could be materially adverse to our business and shareholders. FDIC insurance premiums may increase materially, which could negatively affect our profitability. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including State Bank. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures and expectations for further failures, in which case the FDIC insures payment of deposits up to insured limits from the Deposit Insurance Fund. In late 2008, the FDIC announced an increase in insurance premium rates of seven basis points for the first quarter of 2009. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC announced its adoption of an interim final rule imposing a one-time special assessment of 20 basis points and a final rule adjusting the risk-based calculation used to determine the premiums due from each financial institution. Management of the Company expects that the special assessment and the changes to the premium calculation could significantly increase the Company’s insurance expense in 2009. Additional increases may be announced in the future, which could negatively affect our net income. Our business strategy includes significant growth plans. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. We are subject to state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations. Laws and regulations may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, and not to benefit our shareholders. The impact of any changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact us. In light of current conditions in the global financial markets and the global economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Most recently, government has intervened on an unprecedented scale in responding to the stresses experienced in the global financial markets. Some of the measures subject us and other financial institutions to additional restrictions, oversight or costs that may have an impact on our business, results of operations or the price of our common shares. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our success depends upon the continued service of our senior management team and upon our ability to attract and retain qualified financial services personnel. Competition for qualified employees is intense. We can not assure you that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or attract additional qualified personnel. If we lose the services of our key personnel, or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 26. We depend upon the accuracy and completeness of information about customers. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers, we may rely on information provided to us by customers, including financial statements and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of customers as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to a business, we may assume that the customer’s audited financial statements conform with generally accepted accounting principles and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer, and we may also rely on the audit report covering those financial statements. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we rely on financial statements that do not comply with generally accepted accounting principles or that are materially misleading. Our ability to pay cash dividends is limited, and we may be unable to pay cash dividends in the future even if we elect to do so. We are dependent primarily upon the earnings of our operating subsidiaries for funds to pay dividends on our common shares. The payment of dividends by us is also subject to regulatory restrictions. As a result, any payment of dividends in the future will be dependent, in large part, on our ability to satisfy these regulatory restrictions and our subsidiaries’ earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors. Although our financial earnings and financial condition have allowed us to declare and pay periodic cash dividends to our shareholders, there can be no assurance that our dividend policy or size of dividend distribution will continue in the future. Our failure to pay dividends on our common shares could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. RDSI relies on the continued functioning of its data center and the integrity of the data it processes. RDSI’s data center is an integral part of its business. Damage to RDSI’s data center due to acts of terrorism, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure and other disasters could have a material adverse effect on RDSI’s business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, RDSI relies on the integrity of the data it processes. If this data is incorrect or somewhat tainted, client relations and confidence in RDSI’s services could be impaired, which would harm RDSI’s business. A limited trading market exists for our common shares which could lead to price volatility. Your ability to sell or purchase our common shares depends upon the existence of an active trading market for our common shares. While our stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market, it trades infrequently. As a result, you may be unable to sell or purchase our common shares at the volume, price and time you desire. The limited trading market for our common shares may cause fluctuations in the market value of our common shares to be exaggerated, leading to price volatility in excess of that which would occur in a more active trading market. The preparation of our financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. Two of our most critical estimates are the level of the allowance for loan losses and the accounting for goodwill and other intangibles. Because of the inherent nature of these estimates, we cannot provide complete assurance that we will not be required to charge earnings for significant unexpected loan losses, nor that we will not recognize a material provision for impairment of our goodwill. For additional information regarding these critical estimates, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations beginning on page 35 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 27. Changes in accounting standards could impact our results of operations. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially affect how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which would result in the restatement of our financial statements for prior periods. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable Item 