Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider the following factors, together with other matters described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating us and our prospects. Any of the following risks could seriously harm our business and financial results. In such case, the trading price of our securities could decline. If we are unable to implement our growth strategy, the price of our securities may be adversely affected. Our strategy is to increase our sales and profitability thus increasing our rate of growth. We have historically achieved, and intend to continue to achieve, our growth primarily through the acquisition or internal development of new product lines, the expansion of our customer base and the addition of new businesses. However, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to expand successfully or that growth or expansion will result in continued profitability. Our ability to implement our growth strategy will depend upon a variety of factors that are not entirely within our control, including: · our ability to develop new products; · our ability to make profitable acquisitions; · integration of acquired companies and facilities into existing operations; · hiring, training and retention of qualified personnel; · establishment of new relationships or expansion of existing relationships with customers and suppliers; and · availability of capital. Our growth strategy includes growth by acquisitions. We compete for acquisition opportunities with companies that have significantly greater financial resources than we have. Therefore, there is a risk that we may be unable to complete an acquisition that we believe could be important to our growth strategy because one of our competitors may be willing to pay more for a potential acquisition candidate or may be 15 able to use its financial resources to acquire a potential acquisition candidate before we are able to obtain financing. Loss of key management or key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends to a significant extent on the members of our senior management team. Although we have written employment agreements with all of our senior management team, we may not be able to retain the services of our senior management team. If we were to lose a member of our senior management team, we would be required to incur significant costs in identifying, hiring and retaining replacements for the departing executive. No member of our senior management team has a significant equity-based performance incentive. The loss of any of our key management or employees could have a material adverse effect upon our business. If we implement our growth strategy but are unable to manage our growth, our sales and profitability might be adversely affected. The implementation of our growth strategy may place additional demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources and increase the demands on our financial systems and controls. Our ability to manage our growth successfully may require us to continue to improve and expand these resources, systems and controls. If our management is unable to manage growth effectively, our operating results could be adversely affected. If we are unable to manage our growth, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may not be able to raise the additional capital necessary to implement our growth strategy. Our growth strategy requires that we make expenditures in connection with new products and the acquisition of other companies. Although we believe we have sufficient resources to finance these expenditures, we may be required to seek additional sources of financing, which may include issuing additional debt or equity securities to finance potential acquisitions. We cannot predict the amount of our expenditures in connection with our growth strategy because opportunities for implementing our growth strategy arise unexpectedly. This is particularly the case for acquisition opportunities. In the past, when an acquisition opportunity arose, we were required to obtain financing simultaneously with our negotiation of the terms of the acquisition. Our dependence on additional financing may place us at a disadvantage in competing for acquisitions. When a future acquisition opportunity arises, we will be required to evaluate the sources of financing, which may be limited on short notice, and the terms of the financing available at the time. If we cannot find financing on acceptable terms, we may be unable to make the acquisition. Our competitors may increase the sales of their products in a way that results in decreased sales of our products and our loss of market share. The markets for many of our products, particularly our research products, are highly competitive. We believe that the following companies are our most significant competitors: · GE Healthcare, Inc. · Apogent Technologies, Inc. · Beckman Coulter, Inc. · Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc. · Cambrex Corporation · CSL Limited 16 · Fisher Scientific International, Inc. · Invitrogen Corporation · Merck KgaA · Millipore Corporation · Proliant, Inc. · Qiagen N.V. · Sigma-Aldrich Corp · Techne Corporation Some of our competitors have significant financial, operational, sales and marketing resources, and significant experience in research and development. Our competitors may develop new technologies that compete with our products or render our products obsolete. If a competitor develops superior technology or cost-effective alternatives to our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be negatively impacted. In addition, demand for our products may weaken due to reduction in research and development budgets, loss of distributors and other factors identified in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We believe that customers in our markets display a significant amount of loyalty to their initial supplier of a particular product. Therefore, it may be difficult to generate sales to potential customers who have purchased products from competitors. To the extent we are unable to be the first to develop and supply new products, our competitive position may suffer. We intend to compete in our industry by leveraging and expanding upon our business and operational structure. Among other things, we intend to leverage our expanded sales and marketing structure, to expand our investment in research and development and to continue to evaluate acquisitions of businesses and technologies that will further accelerate our growth in both revenue and profitability. However, we cannot assure you that our plans will be successful or that we will be able to maintain or increase our market share. If our supply of bovine serum or recombinant human insulin were interrupted or if the price of such materials increases and we are unable to pass the increases to our customers, our Bioprocessing segment would be materially adversely affected. Our Bioprocessing segment relies on the continued availability of bovine serum, which is the raw material from which our EX-CYTE® product is derived and which is a component used in the manufacture of other cell culture products and of recombinant human insulin, which we distribute to our cell-culture-product customers. The availability and price of bovine serum has been affected by scares or outbreaks of disease or similar health concerns or perceptions about the safety of bovine serum, government regulation and trade restrictions. Cows afflicted with BSE, or “mad-cow disease”, were discovered in Canada and the northwestern United States in 2003. These animals were the first known cases of mad-cow disease in North America. The discovery of mad-cow disease in North America caused disruptions in the production and sales of some of our cell culture products. As a result of both discoveries, we were forced to close our Canadian manufacturing facility for a period of time and to delay shipments of inventory to a number of international customers due to foreign government regulations during the first quarter of fiscal 2004. We were also unable to import raw material sourced in the United States into Canada and vice versa for a period of time following the discovery of BSE in each country. Similar scares or actual outbreaks of disease could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We now obtain most of the bovine serum we use to manufacture our cell culture products from a single privately held supplier who sources materials from two abattoirs in the Midwestern United States. 17 We also obtain relatively small quantities of bovine serum from a supplier in Australia, a country that is believed to be free of BSE. If we are unable to obtain bovine serum from our suppliers for any reason, including because of a future outbreak of BSE, we will contact other suppliers and attempt to find a source of supply. If we cannot find another source, our Bioprocessing segment could be materially adversely affected. We obtain the recombinant human insulin that we distribute to our cell-culture-supplement customers from a single supplier based in Europe. We recently entered into a four-year contract with this supplier. We do not have an alternate source of supply for recombinant human insulin that could provide the same volumes of the product that we purchase from our current supplier on terms competitive with those offered by our current supplier. We do not believe that we could readily obtain on competitive terms another source of the quantities of recombinant human insulin that we require, if our supply from this supplier were interrupted. If our supply were interrupted, our Bioprocessing segment and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our EX-CYTE® product sales are driven by market demand for therapeutic drugs that we do not manufacture or sell. If such drugs are not commercially successful, the companies that manufacture them will not purchase EX-CYTE®, and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. EX-CYTE® is one of our most significant cell culture products. The majority of our sales of EX-CYTE® are to companies with approved, marketed drugs, or with drugs in advanced phases of clinical trials. Reduced demand or acceptance, or delays or denial of approval of the underlying pharmaceutical product could adversely impact the demand for EX-CYTE® and adversely affect our results of operations. Concern about the transmission of BSE could reduce the demand for our cell culture products that are derived from bovine serum. The demand for several of our cell culture products, including EX-CYTE® and ProbuminÔ bovine serum albumin, could be adversely affected by concerns about some of their components being derived from bovine serum. The demand for IncelligentÔ, our recombinant human insulin product, could be adversely affected by concerns about the use of bovine material in the process by which it is manufactured. The concern arises from the risk that the agent causing BSE might be present in the raw materials used in the production process and that the agent might be introduced into a therapeutic substance manufactured by one of our customers. The regulatory authorities of certain countries, including Japan, have refused to approve pharmaceuticals that are manufactured using a product that was derived from bovine serum or that was manufactured by a process that uses bovine material. The regulatory authorities of other countries could adopt similar restrictions. We may incur costs in excess of amounts projected to close our manufacturing facilities in Toronto. We decided to close our manufacturing facilities in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, and to transfer production of the cell culture products manufactured there elsewhere. We recorded substantial one-time, non-cash charges in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 in connection with the closure. We expect to incur additional charges in the future. Our estimates regarding the closure costs may not be accurate because, among other things, they are based on our knowledge of environmental conditions at the facilities. If the environmental conditions are not as expected, the closure costs could exceed our estimates. Additional closure costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in fiscal 2006. 18 We may lose sales as a result of our decision to close our manufacturing facilities in Toronto and not to open our manufacturing facility in Lawrence, Kansas. We may loose sales as a result of our decision to transfer certain manufacturing operations of our Research segment from Lake Placid, New York, to Temecula, California. If we are unable to induce customers of our Toronto cell culture products to purchase such products manufactured elsewhere, the revenues of our Bioprocessing segment may be materially adversely affected. We may have to provide financial or other incentives to the customers of our Toronto cell culture products to induce them to purchase such products manufactured elsewhere. Incentives may be required because our customers may incur costs associated with the conversion of their manufacturing processes to our other products. We decided not to open our EX-CYTE® manufacturing facility in Lawrence, Kansas, because we believe that we can satisfy the demand for the product with the production of our Kankakee, Illinois, facility, which we have recently increased beyond our previous expectations. If we have underestimated the future demand for the product or if we have overestimated our ability to produce larger quantities of it in Kankakee, we may be unable to satisfy the demand for the product. Furthermore, if production at our Kankakee plant is interrupted, we will be unable to manufacture the product, and other significant cell culture products, at any other location. We are in the process of transferring certain manufacturing operations of our Research segment from Lake Placid, New York, to Temecula, California. If we are unable to transfer the operations on schedule, we may loose sales of the effected products. Furthermore, we could incur expenses in excess of amounts budgeted, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The outsourcing trend in the pre-clinical and non-clinical stages of drug discovery and development may decrease, which could slow our growth. Our Research segment derives a portion of its revenues from the provision of drug discovery services to its customers. This business has grown significantly over the past several years as a result of the increase in pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies outsourcing their pre-clinical and non-clinical research support activities. A substantial decline in pre-clinical and non-clinical outsourcing activity could result in a diminished growth rate in the revenues of our Research segment. Violation of government regulations or voluntary quality programs could result in loss of sales and customers and additional expense to attain compliance. Several of our facilities are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, primarily through the requirements of the Public Health Service Act and the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, and similar governmental bodies in other countries. The facilities are also subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and other similar governmental bodies to ensure their compliance with applicable laws and regulations. New facilities, products and operating procedures also must be approved by the FDA and/or similar governmental bodies in other countries. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could lead to sanctions by the governmental bodies, such as written observations of deficiencies made following inspections, warning letters, product recalls, fines, product seizures and consent decrees, which would be made available to the public. Such actions and publicity could affect our ability to sell our products and to provide our services. In the past, we have received notifications and warning letters from the FDA relating to deficiencies in our compliance with FDA requirements. We were required to take measures to respond to the deficiencies. There can be no assurance that the FDA will not request that we take additional steps to correct these deficiencies or other deficiencies in compliance raised by the FDA in the future. Correction of any such deficiencies could have a material adverse affect on our business. 19 We are also indirectly held accountable for complying with some of the regulations to which our customers are subject, even though we are not the regulated entity. For example, some of our customers use our products in the manufacturing process for their drug and medical device products. Such products are regulated by the FDA under the FDA’s QSR. Although the customer is ultimately responsible for QSR compliance for their products, the customers expect that the materials we sell to them will meet QSR requirements. We could lose sales and customers, and incur products liability claims, if our products do not meet QSR requirements, to the extent applicable. We are subject to USDA regulations and various foreign regulations for the sourcing, manufacturing and distribution of animal based proteins. Our failure to comply with these requirements could negatively impact our business and potentially cause the loss of customers and sales. ISO 9000:2000 quality standards are an internationally recognized set of voluntary quality standards that require compliance with a variety of quality requirements somewhat similar to the QSR requirements. The operations of our cell culture manufacturing facilities, as well as our manufacturing facility in Scotland and our research products facilities in California, Australia and the United Kingdom, are registered under the ISO standards. Failure to comply with this voluntary standard can lead to observations of non-compliance or even suspension of ISO certification by the certifying unit. Loss of ISO certification could cause some customers to purchase products from other suppliers. Our research and development efforts for new products may be unsuccessful. We incur research and development expenses to develop new products and technologies. There can be no assurance that any of these products or technologies will be successfully developed or that, if developed, will be commercially successful. If we are unable to develop and commercialize products from our research and development efforts or we are unable or unwilling to allocate amounts beyond our currently anticipated research and development investment, we could lose our entire investment in these new products and technologies. If we are not able to identify new licensing opportunities or to enter into licenses for new products on acceptable terms, we may be unable to offer new products, which would adversely affect our results of operations. A component of our business strategy is to increase the number of products we offer by licensing products developed by other biotechnology companies or academic research laboratories. We attempt to market such products to our customers. Often, we attempt to improve the licensed products using our technologies. Therefore, we depend on the success of our licensing efforts for a portion of our new products. There can be no assurance that our licensing efforts will be successful. We license technology that enables us to access proprietary biological materials that we use to manufacture our products. Some of the licenses do not provide guarantees that we will have all legal rights to sell products that are derived from the licensed technology. Therefore, we may be prevented from selling products produced with the licensed biological materials because of competing technologies owned by others, including patented technologies. If our products are found by a court to infringe intellectual property rights of a third party, we may be prevented from practicing that technology. Moreover, if found by a court to infringe the patent of the third party, we may be liable for compensatory damages, treble damages and attorney’s fees and subject to a royalty obligation or enjoined from practicing the technology altogether, notwithstanding the license from the licensor. Although we attempt to obtain indemnification from our licensors, we do not always receive indemnification against third party claims of patent infringement. In the ordinary course of business, we receive notices alleging that one or more of our approximately 11,000 research products violates a patent or other intellectual property right. Although we have not in the past incurred material liabilities as a result of infringement claims with respect to our research products, we have no assurance that we will not incur material liability as a result of an infringement claim in the future, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 20 If we fail to introduce new products, or our new products are not accepted by potential customers, we may lose market share. Our Research segment is highly dependent on frequent new product introductions. Our future success will depend in part on continuous, timely development and introduction of new products that address evolving market requirements. To the extent we fail to introduce new and innovative products, we may lose market share to our competitors, which could be difficult to regain. Any inability to develop and introduce new products successfully could reduce our growth rate or damage our business. If we do not protect our intellectual property, our business could be materially adversely affected. Many of our current products are not protected by patents that we own or license. We attempt to protect these products by maintaining our intellectual property related to them as trade secrets. Our products that are not patented may be susceptible to reverse engineering or parallel development efforts and sales by our competitors. We attempt to protect our trade secrets by entering into confidentiality agreements with third parties, our employees and consultants. In that regard, our policy is to require all of our current employees to sign confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements; however, it is possible that some employees have failed to do so or that these agreements are not enforceable. The agreements restrict the ability of our employees to disclose proprietary company data without our prior permission. We enforce these agreements when appropriate. However, if one of our current or former employees discloses proprietary company data in violation of these agreements, our business could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, confidentiality agreements with third parties may be breached by the third party. If so, we may not have an adequate remedy against the third party. If our trade secrets become known, we may lose our competitive position. To prevent competitors from using technologies and trademarks in which we hold intellectual property rights, it may be necessary for us to litigate against those competitors. Any litigation could result in substantial expense, may distract our management and may not adequately protect the proprietary technologies and trademarks. Furthermore, litigation may result in a finding of invalidity and unenforceability of our intellectual property rights. In any case in which we are unable to protect our proprietary technologies and trademarks, we may be subject to increased competition, resulting in lost sales and reduced profits, and even discontinuance of or non-entry into a product line. We own or have rights through licenses to many technologies used to manufacture and sell our products that have limited life spans due to patent or license term expiration. When patents expire or licenses are not renewed, we may lose our proprietary advantage over our competitors. We may not be able to obtain new licenses or to renew existing licenses on favorable terms or if at all due to expiration of the license term, failure in selling certain minimum quantities of products, or changes in the licensor’s licensing strategy. If we lose our licensed rights, we may be forced to stop making and selling the products that depend on the license. Furthermore, our competitors could license the rights, which could erode or eliminate our market share for such products and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to gain access to new products and new technologies required to perform services and manufacture new products is partly dependent on our ability to convince inventors, and the institutions that support them, that we will be successful in the commercialization of their inventions. We have no assurance that we will be able to continue to negotiate access for such new products or technologies on acceptable terms or if at all. We attempt to obtain patent protection for our inventions in appropriate cases. We have no assurance that patents will be granted pursuant to any of our pending patent applications. Furthermore, we have no assurance that the scope of our issued patents will be sufficiently broad to offer meaningful protection from our competitors. Accordingly, the possibility exists that our competitors or other third parties could make and sell products thought to be covered by our patents or patents pending. Further, our owned or exclusively licensed patents could be challenged, invalidated or rendered inapplicable so that such patent rights would not bar our competitors from selling competing products. 21 In the ordinary course of business we receive notices alleging that one or more of our products may violate the intellectual property rights of others. Although we have not in the past incurred material liabilities as a result of such infringement claims, we have no assurance that we will not incur material liability as a result of an infringement claim in the future, which could materially adversely affect our business. Reduction or delays in research and development budgets and in government funding may negatively impact sales in our Research segment. Our customers include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions and government and private laboratories. A significant portion of the revenues of our Research segment is attributable to sales to researchers, universities, government laboratories and private foundations whose funding is dependent upon grants from government agencies such as the NIH and similar domestic and international agencies. Fluctuations in the research and development budgets of these researchers and their organizations could affect the demand for our research products. Research and development budgets fluctuate due to numerous factors that are outside our control and are difficult to predict, including changes in available resources, spending priorities and institutional budgetary policies. Furthermore, funding for controversial areas of research, such as stem cell research, could be affected by political factors and could have an adverse impact on revenues. We rely on international sales, which are subject to additional risks. International sales accounted for approximately 34% of our revenues in fiscal 2005, 38% of our revenues in fiscal 2004 and 36% of our revenues in fiscal 2003. International sales can be subject to many inherent risks that are difficult or impossible for us to predict or control, including: · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs; · difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including foreign distributor relationships; · longer accounts receivable collection cycles in certain foreign countries; · adverse economic or political changes; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · more limited protection for intellectual property in some countries; · changes in our international distribution network and direct sales force; · changes in currency exchange rates; · potential trade restrictions, exchange controls and import and export licensing requirements; and · potentially adverse tax consequences of overlapping tax structures. Each of these risks might impact our cash flow or impair our ability to borrow funds, which ultimately could affect our business, financial condition or operating results. We have not attempted to mitigate the risk of fluctuations in currency exchange rates by entering into hedging financial arrangements. We have not entered into foreign exchange hedging financial arrangements because the foreign sales of our Research segment, which are frequently denominated in foreign currencies, have historically offset the U.S. sales of our MonoSera™ products, which are frequently denominated in U.S. dollars. Therefore, we currently believe that the risk to our results of operations posed by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates does not currently warrant a hedging arrangement. 22 Litigation may harm our business or otherwise distract our management. Substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur large expenditures and distract our management. For example, lawsuits by employees, stockholders, collaborators, distributors, competitors, customers, or end-users of our products or services, including liability claims and patent infringement claims based on our products and services, could be very costly and substantially disrupt our business. Disputes from time to time with such companies or individuals are not uncommon, and we cannot provide assurance that we will always be able to resolve such disputes out of court or on terms favorable to us. If we are sued for patent infringement, and a court agrees that we are infringing a third party’s patent, we may be forced to remove a product from the market or enter into a license agreement, which may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. Further, in such a circumstance, we could be exposed to significant attorneys’ fees and costs. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations governing the use of materials and chemicals used in our business. We use many chemicals that are classified as hazardous substances in our manufacturing operations, including organic solvents. We believe that our safety and environmental policies for handling and disposing of such materials comply with standards prescribed by state and federal agencies. There is a risk, however, that we might accidentally release a hazardous substance into the environment. In addition, we cannot give assurance that laws, rules and regulations or enforcement policies that are more restrictive than those with which we now comply will not be adopted in the future. If so, we would be required to change our compliance programs, which could make compliance more expensive or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales to our customers may depend, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. Third-party payors, such as NIH, government health administration authorities and other similar organizations, are continually challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, including the medical products that our customers manufacture using our products. There can be no assurance that pricing pressures that may be experienced by our customers will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations because of a determination that a customer’s products are not cost effective or because of inadequate third-party reimbursements levels to our customers. The sourcing, processing, manufacturing and sale of our products involve a risk of product and professional liability claims. There is a risk that we might be subject to product or professional liability in excess of our insurance coverage. We believe that we have obtained sufficient levels of product and professional liability insurance to insure against the risk of catastrophic claims. There can be no assurance that the coverage limits of our insurance policies will be sufficient to cover potential claims. A successful claim against us in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 