ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We wish to caution readers that in addition to the important factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following important factors, among others, sometimes have affected, or in the future could affect, our actual results or financial condition, and could cause our actual consolidated results or financial condition during fiscal 2006, and beyond, to differ materially from those experienced in prior periods or expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Risks Related to Our Business We are materially dependent upon Wal-Mart. Approximately 96.8% of our sales for fiscal 2005 were derived from sales in Wal-Mart stores. We are materially dependent upon our relationship with Wal-Mart, the continued goodwill of Wal-Mart and the integrity of the Wal-Mart brand name in the retail marketplace. Any deterioration in our Wal-Mart relationship would have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, because of the demands placed on us to open studios in new Wal-Mart Stores, we have not been able to diversify our business. In addition, our competitive posture could be weakened with negative changes in Wal-Mart’s competitive posture. We continued to experience a downturn in our results of operations in fiscal 2005. We had a net loss, deficiency of earnings to fixed charges and negative net worth. In fiscal 2005, our consolidated sales increased over the prior year by $1.9 million, $325.5 million versus $323.6 million in fiscal 2004 primarily due to increased Wal-Mart studio sales. However, we saw our income from operations decrease from $17.5 million in fiscal 2004 to $5.3 million in fiscal 2005 driven by the decrease in same store sales and less customer traffic spread over more studios than fiscal 2004. Net loss was 12 $34.4 million in fiscal 2005 compared to net loss of $29.7 million in fiscal 2004 (Note: The net loss in fiscal 2004 was $15.0 million before the impact of a valuation allowance on deferred taxes made in fiscal 2004. See Note 8 to The Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein for further information). Although we are implementing measures to improve our performance, external factors such as increases in gasoline prices and rising interest rates may continue to adversely impact our success. Therefore, we may be unable to improve our operating results and accordingly, can provide no assurance we will be able to remain in compliance with the covenants in our various debt agreements. In fiscal 2005, we had a net loss of $34.4 million and our fixed charges exceeded earnings by $34.4 million. We cannot give assurance that we will return to profitability or report earnings in excess of fixed charges in any future period. Future net losses and/or deficiencies of earnings to fixed charges may prevent us from pursuing our growth and diversification strategies and could cause us to be unable to meet our debt obligations, capital expenditure requirements or working capital needs. Additionally, as of January 29, 2006, our total assets were less than our total liabilities by $204.8 million, resulting in a negative net worth. If we are unable to fund our operations in the future, we may not be able to liquidate our assets to pay our liabilities. Substantial doubt has been raised about the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm, Eisner LLP, issued their report dated May 26, 2006 which expressed a substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, the Company at January 29, 2006 had a working capital deficiency and a capital deficiency, and has incurred a substantial net loss for the year ended January 29, 2006. The Company anticipates that such conditions will continue in 2006. In addition, as discussed in Note 2, the Company is in default of certain obligations which were due on June 15, 2006 and does not have sufficient liquidity to meet these obligations. These factors raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Management’s plans in regard to these matters are also described in Note 2. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if the Company is unable to continue as a going concern. See further discussion in connection with their audit of the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2006 in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity” and in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. Failure to pay interest on Notes On June 15, 2006, the Company did not make an interest payment in the amount of $687,500 due on its 133/4% Senior Subordinated Notes Due 2010 (the “Notes”). The 30-day grace period for payment of such interest expired on June 14, 2006. As a result, an event of default occurred with respect to the Notes, which default also causes a cross-default under the Company’s credit agreement with its senior lender. The Company is currently in discussions with the holders of the Notes and its senior lender regarding obtaining a forbearance or similar agreement with respect to this interest payment. In the event that an agreement is not reached with the holders of the Notes and the Company’s senior lender, such holders or senior lender will have the right to submit a notice to the Company declaring all principal and interest and other amounts due in respect of the Notes immediately due and payable. While the Company is hopeful that such discussions will be resolved favorably, no assurances can be given that any such agreement will be reached. If we fail to favorably resolve tax disputes with various taxing authorities our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company settled a tax claim against its Mexican subsidiary for $1.9 million. During fiscal 2005, Revenue Canada asserted a claim against our Canadian subsidiary relating to transfer pricing for goods and services rendered by our U.S. parent company. The claim relates to fiscal years 2000 through 2004, we are currently challenging this claim and have retained Canadian legal counsel and PriceWaterhouseCoopers to assist us in this process. 13 We were unable to timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2005 and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the thirteen weeks ended May 1, 2005 and the thirty-nine weeks ended October 30, 2005. We may not be able to accurately and timely file our periodic reports and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected as a result. Our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the thirteen weeks ended May 1, 2005 was delayed due to the uncertainty associated with the financial statements of our Mexican operations. Our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the thirty-nine weeks ended October 30, 2005 was delayed due to the turnover in the Company’s financial staff. Additionally, we failed to timely file Forms 8-K relating to: the hiring of David Alexander as Chairman and CEO; a personal services agreement with a principal of Jupiter Partners our majority shareholder; and our new 5 year agreement with Wal-Mart Canada. These failures to timely file reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) violate the covenants contained in the indenture agreements for the Company’s Senior Notes and Senior Secured Notes. We had a period of sixty (60) days following notice from either the Trustee of our 11.875% senior notes due 2009 (the “Senior Notes”), or our 14% senior secured notes due 2009 (the “Senior Secured Notes”), or the holders of 25% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes to cure the defaults. Notice was received with respect to the filing of the Company’s Form 10-Q for the period ended October 30, 2005. Such defaults relating to the filing of the Company’s Form 10-Qs and Form 8-K filings discussed above were cured. This Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended January 29, 2006 was delayed due to a turnover in the Company’s financial staff. We have received a 60 day notice relating to this timely filing default, discussed above. Additionally, we were in default of covenants contained in our Senior Notes and Senior Secured Notes requiring the delivery of our audited financial statements within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year, without an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. On June 20, 2006, the Company entered into the Third Amendment to Credit Agreement, Waiver, Consent and Forbearance Agreement with its Senior Lender. This agreement provides, among other things, that the Senior Lender waives certain requirements to deliver audited financial statements or that such statements will not contain “going concern” language. The Senior Lender has also agreed to forebear any action with regard to certain defaults under its credit agreements for a specified length of time. We may face similar default issues as a result of our recent failure to timely file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 2006. See Note 18 — Subsequent Events — Failure to File 10-Q for the Period Ended April 30, 2006 in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. See also “Failure to pay interest on Notes” discussed above and the ending of the standstill agreement with AgfaPhoto USA discussed below under “Our failure to maintain good relations with our major suppliers...”. Our business practices and operations need to be acceptable to Wal-Mart. Because of the importance of our Wal-Mart relationship, our business practices and procedures must at all times be acceptable to Wal-Mart. Consequently, in the future, we may make changes to our business practices and procedures, including advertising, promotions, pricing, product offerings, studio facilities, technology, management and employment practices in response to Wal-Mart’s requests that would not be in our best interests and could materially and adversely affect our sales, costs, margins, business development or other aspects of our business. In addition, under our license agreements Wal-Mart has substantial contractual rights, which it can exercise in a manner that can have a material adverse effect on us. Among other things, pursuant to our license agreements we must: - relocate any studio location in a Wal-Mart store at Wal-Mart’s request; 14 - obtain Wal-Mart’s prior written approval of all advertising; - maintain specified levels of worker’s compensation and liability insurance; - operate the studios for specified hours every day that the Wal-Mart store is open; - indemnify Wal-Mart from any claim by an employee, vendor or portrait studio customer relating to studio operation or for accident or injury anywhere in the Wal-Mart store; - observe all Wal-Mart policies relating to customer service; and - observe all Wal-Mart policies relating to the activities of our employees in the Wal-Mart store; and we are not permitted to - make improvements to our Wal-Mart studios without Wal-Mart’s prior written consent; - conduct any “fire,” “50% off” or similar sales; - issue a press release using the Wal-Mart name without Wal-Mart’s consent; and - advertise on radio or television without Wal-Mart’s consent. Wal-Mart may terminate, breach, otherwise limit or increase our expenses under our license or lease agreements. Our Wal-Mart permanent studios in the U.S. and Canada are operated pursuant to license agreements while our permanent studios in Mexico, Germany and the U.K. are operated pursuant to lease agreements. These license and lease agreements can be terminated or suspended by Wal-Mart for various reasons, some of which are beyond our control. These agreements are more fully described in “Item 1., Business—Licenses, Trademarks and Patents—Wal-Mart Licenses.” Wal-Mart is under no obligation to renew existing locations. Wal-Mart may also increase the expenses we are required to pay under our license or lease agreements upon renewal of the agreements. In addition, license fees under our Wal-Mart licenses may increase periodically if certain sales or other conditions are met. We do not have the right to close any poorly performing locations prior to the expiration of the term of the license or lease for such locations. Although our license and lease agreements prohibit Wal-Mart from licensing or leasing permanent portrait studios to any other person in the stores in which we operate, they do not make us the exclusive provider for all Wal-Mart stores. In addition, our license and lease agreements do not prohibit Wal-Mart from selling many of the tangible goods we sell, or from developing film, in other departments within its stores. Furthermore, there is always the risk that Wal-Mart might breach one or more of our license or lease agreements. The loss or breach of a substantial number of the licenses or leases from Wal-Mart could have a material adverse effect on us. An adverse change in any other aspects of our business relationship with Wal-Mart, the reduction of the number of studios operated pursuant to such arrangements, a decision by Wal-Mart to license or lease studios to other persons or changes in Wal-Mart’s expansion plans could have a material adverse effect on us. See “Item 1., Business—Licenses, Trademarks and Patents—Wal-Mart Licenses.” 15 An economic downturn, a reduction in consumer spending or decreased customer traffic in our host stores could materially adversely affect our business. Portrait photography services may be affected by negative trends in the general economy. The portrait studios in Wal-Mart stores rely largely on customer traffic generated by the host stores. The host stores may be affected by a downturn in the economy caused by increasing fuel costs and rising interest rates which decrease the discretionary income of potential customers. There is no assurance that Wal-Mart or any other host stores in which we may operate will not experience a reduction in host store traffic which could adversely affect us. In addition, we have substantial fixed costs associated with our three facilities in the Charlotte, North Carolina area. These fixed costs make us vulnerable to an economic downturn. We may not be able to finance the rapid growth we may experience. In April 2002, we executed a U.S. Master License Agreement with Wal-Mart. As part of this agreement, Wal-Mart committed to provide us a minimum of 150 new studios per year for four years and, thereafter, to use commercially reasonable efforts to provide 150 new studios per year. Further, Wal-Mart has agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to include a Wal-Mart Portrait Studio operated by us in the blueprint of each new Supercenter (except for new Supercenters of 145,000 square feet) and store of 100,000 square feet or larger. We anticipate opening a studio in all new Wal-Mart stores where our studios are incorporated into the blueprint. This will require us to make substantial capital expenditures. To open new studios, maintain and grow our sales base, respond to shifts in customer demand and changes in industry trends, as well as finance capital expenditures, infrastructure growth and acquisitions, we will need to generate sufficient cash flow and obtain sufficient capital. We can give no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to fund these activities or that financing will be available to us on acceptable terms and will be permitted to be incurred under the terms of our current and any future indebtedness. Our failure to generate sufficient cash flow or obtain sufficient financing to fund our future growth could materially adversely affect us. The rapid growth of portrait studios within Wal-Mart could limit our ability to fund growth outside of Wal-Mart. Our failure to maintain good relations with our major suppliers of photographic film, paper and processing chemistry could materially adversely affect our source of supply and our financial condition. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company agreed to purchase 100% of its North American requirements for color negative film from Kodak during the period beginning January 1, 2006 and ending June 30, 2007, except that the Company may purchase up to 1% of its North American requirements for film from other vendors for testing and evaluation. Effective December 8, 2005, the Company has agreed to purchase 100% of its North American requirements for photographic paper and chemicals from Fuji during the period beginning January 1, 2006 and ending June 30, 2007. Both agreements have payment terms of cash-in-advance and have provisions requiring annual minimum purchase quantities. Prior to the agreements with Kodak and Fuji, AgfaPhoto USA Corporation was our principal supplier of photographic film, paper and processing chemistry and had been our supplier for over 30 years. During fiscal 2004, we were unable to meet the payment terms of AgfaPhoto USA Corporation. The Company’s total indebtedness to AgfaPhoto is approximately $22.8 million. Approximately $2.1 million is on open account and is currently due and payable. Approximately $20.7 million is subject to a letter agreement dated June 15, 2005 in which AgfaPhoto agreed, under certain conditions, to defer any collection action until June 15, 2006. Further, AgfaPhoto has agreed to subordination terms with respect to other debt of the Company that effectively limits AgfaPhoto’s ability to collect any of the $22.8 million as a secured creditor. On June 15, 2006 the Company’s standstill agreement with AgfaPhoto USA ended. In that agreement, AgfaPhoto USA agreed that it would not take any action to collect certain amounts owed by us for photographic paper, film and chemicals 16 purchased from AgfaPhoto USA . The Company has asked AgfaPhoto USA to extend this agreement to September 30, 2006. While AgfaPhoto USA has stated that it would request such an extension from the bankruptcy trustee of its parent company in Germany, there can be no assurance that such an extension will be given. Also, to date, AgfaPhoto USA has been working with the Company to resolve amounts owed to them, but there can be no assurance that AgfaPhoto USA will not institute legal action to collect such amounts. If we fail to maintain adequate relations with Fuji and Kodak, we may be unable to obtain supplies at comparable terms. In such an event, our ability to secure additional suppliers and acceptable credit terms, or to obtain additional equity and/or debt financing would likely be limited in light of our recent operating performance and financial condition. In such an event, our financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. We can give no assurance we would be able to obtain new sources of funds on favorable terms or otherwise. Our inability to raise prices could limit our growth. Because of competitive pressures, we are unlikely to be able to increase profitability on a sustained basis by raising our prices. Rather, our ability to increase profitability over the longer term will depend on our ability to open new studios, increase customer traffic in existing studios and manage expanding operations effectively. If we lose our key personnel, our business may be adversely affected. Our continued success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key personnel. During fiscal 2005, Our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman resigned as well as the Chief Financial Officer. The Company has since hired a new President and Chief Executive Officer R. David Alexander. Additionally, in fiscal 2006, the Company’s Senior Vice President, Interim Chief Financial Officer and Controller; Vice President, Tax; Vice President, Manufacturing Controller; and Vice President Financial Controller resigned from their positions with the Company. The Chief Financial Officer role is being performed by Bob Wren, Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company. The Controller, Tax and Financial Controller functions have been filled and the Manufacturing Controller’s responsibilities have been spread among other employees. Our business may be adversely affected if we cannot manage the growth of our operations or generate sufficient cash flow or obtain sufficient capital to fund future growth. It is essential to our relationship with Wal-Mart that we open new studios in all stores in which Wal-Mart wants us to do so. It could be difficult or impossible for us to keep pace with Wal-Mart’s rapid expansion plans. Our future growth will require us to manage our expanding domestic and international operations and to adapt our operational, manufacturing, financial and management systems to support those efforts while controlling costs. Our business expansion will continue to place significant demands on us to further develop our field managers and supervisors, and continue to retain, train, motivate and effectively manage our employees. Our failure to manage growth effectively and to adequately expand these systems in response to such growth could materially adversely affect us by limiting our ability to maintain or expand our current level of service to customers in our existing studios. 17 We can give no assurances that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow or obtain funding from external sources to support our future growth. Our failure to generate sufficient cash flow or obtain sufficient funding to support our future growth could materially adversely affect us. Our expansion into geographic areas we already serve could adversely affect our business. We have experienced reduced sales at existing studios when we have opened new studios in close proximity to existing studios. Success of our growth strategy will depend somewhat on our ability to minimize this effect. In addition, our license agreement with Wal-Mart prohibits us from opening a new non-Wal-Mart studio within a certain distance of any store where we operate a Wal-Mart portrait studio. This prohibition could negatively impact our non-Wal-Mart expansion plans. Our fourth quarter sales and income are disproportionately high and we are vulnerable to downturns in consumer holiday spending that can adversely affect our business. Our business is highly seasonal. The holiday season accounts for a high percentage of our sales and operating income, and our fourth fiscal quarter, typically late October/early November through late January/early February, generally produces a large percentage of annual sales and operating income. The fourth quarters in fiscal 2005 and 2004 have accounted for approximately 33% of our annual sales and all of our annual operating income. Our operations can be adversely affected by inclement weather or other factors that reduce consumer holiday spending in our host stores, especially during the important fiscal fourth quarter. If our competitors initiate price-cutting or changes in package configurations or introduce new technology, we may experience lower sales or higher costs. The professional portrait photography industry is highly competitive. Evolving technology and business relationships may make it easier and less expensive for our competition to develop products or services similar to ours or to sell competing products or services in our markets. The companies in our industry compete on the basis of value, price, quality, access, service, package size, technology and convenience of retail distribution. The major professional portrait studio companies, including CPI Corporation and Olan Mills, operate permanent studios in retail chains and independent locations. To compete successfully, we must continue to remain competitive in areas of value, price, quality, access, service, package size, technology and convenience of distribution and we must do so on terms and prices compatible with the Wal-Mart philosophy. The evolution of digital portrait technology has introduced additional competition from companies which operate independent locations specializing in such portrait technology. We can give no assurance such technology, or companies specializing in such technology, will not take significant business from us, resulting in either lower sales or higher cost of operation for us. Furthermore, consumer products, particularly those that are value-priced, are subject to significant price competition. We can give no assurance that we will not be forced to engage in price-cutting initiatives to respond to competitive and consumer pressures. The failure of our sales volumes to grow sufficiently to improve overall sales and income as a result of a competitive price reduction could materially adversely affect us. Our international expansion may not be successful and may expose us to additional risks that could adversely affect our business. 18 International operations in Canada and Mexico accounted for approximately 12.2% of sales during fiscal 2005. Germany and the U.K accounted for .6%. We expect international sales to increase in the future as we continue to grow in Canada and Mexico and potentially, as we expand operations in Europe (we currently only operate European studios in Germany and the U.K.). To the extent our international operations increase, we will become more vulnerable to risks involving the geographic distance of operations, differences in language or culture, changes in business regulations, taxation and currency fluctuations and political instability. Further, there is no proven market for portrait photography services in retail studio locations in Europe. Therefore, our in-store studio model may not perform well in Europe. We may not be able to keep pace with the evolution of technology and develop and invest in new technologies as required to compete effectively. The evolution of digital portrait technology, computer technology, manufacturing technology and information technology may make it difficult for us to continue using our current technologies and remain competitive. We must continue to invest in new technologies. There can be no assurance we can generate sufficient capital from operations or outside funding sources to invest in such evolving technologies. To the extent we do invest in such technology, there is no assurance our investment will lead to increased sales or profits. In addition, our ability to develop digital technology, e-commerce capabilities and other new information and distribution technologies may affect our position in the marketplace. As digital photography and processing systems improve and the costs associated with such systems declines, it may impair our ability to compete in the marketplace as we may no longer be able to produce our products at competitive prices. A significant increase in piracy of our photographs could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We rely on copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights in our portrait photographs. However, our ability to prevent piracy and enforce our proprietary rights in our photographs is limited. We are aware that unauthorized copying of photographs occurs within our industry. A significant increase in the frequency of unauthorized copying of our photographs could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations by reducing revenues from photograph sales. Any disruption in our manufacturing process could have a material adverse impact on our business. We are dependent upon the efficient operation of our portrait processing facilities to maintain our portrait quality and timeliness of delivery. These facilities are located in a single metropolitan area, Charlotte, North Carolina, and serve primarily all of our operations worldwide. Any disruption of our processing systems for any reason could adversely impact us. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could materially adversely affect our business and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. We have outstanding a substantial amount of debt. As of January 29, 2006, this debt consisted of: - $50.0 million of 14% senior secured notes due 2009; - $20.0 million of letters of credit due 2009; - $10.0 million of senior secured revolving credit facility due 2009; 19 - $165.0 million of 11.875 % senior notes due 2009; - $10.0 million of 13.75% senior subordinated notes due 2010; - $30.0 million of 16.5% senior subordinated discount notes and $22.3 million of additional principal outstanding from capitalized interest on such notes due 2010; and - $22.8 million of extended vendor payables due June 2006, unless we are able to negotiate a further extension of this obligation. We do not expect to generate sufficient cash flow from future operations to repay our indebtedness or to meet current debt obligations. We will need to restructure and/or refinance our debt to do so. We can give no assurance we will be able to restructure or refinance our debt on favorable terms or otherwise. Our ability to continue operations is largely dependent on continued forbearance from our creditors and our ability to compromise or otherwise restructure our debt obligations to levels that can be supported by our existing cash flows from operations. If we are unable to do so, the Company could be forced to seek bankruptcy protection or could be forced to sell assets on unfavorable terms in exchange for proceeds that would likely be insufficient to satisfy our obligations. (See ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations “Liquidity and Capital Resources”). We incurred approximately $38.8 million in net interest expense in fiscal 2005. As of January 29, 2006, approximately 10.5% of our debt bears interest at floating rates and if interest rates rise, our debt service obligation will rise as well. See “Item 7., Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Item 7A., Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for more detail about our debt. The agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our business. The agreements governing our various credit facilities contain a number of covenants imposing significant restrictions on our business. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. These covenants place restrictions on our ability to, among other things: - incur more debt; - make acquisitions or investments; - merge or consolidate with others; - dispose of assets or use asset sale proceeds; - create liens on our assets; and - pledge capital stock of any subsidiary that is held by PCA LLC, PCA Finance Corp. or any of their domestic subsidiaries. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the agreements governing our debt. Such a default would permit some of our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, and the commitments of the senior lenders to make further extensions of credit under our new senior secured revolving credit facility and issue additional letters of credit under our new letters of credit facility could be terminated. If we are unable to repay debt to our senior lenders, these lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that debt. Forward Looking Statements 20 This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes “forward-looking statements,” as defined by federal securities laws, with respect to our financial condition, results of operations and business and our expectations or beliefs concerning future events. Words such as, but not limited to, “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,” “targets,” “likely,” “would,” “could,” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Many risks and uncertainties are inherent in the professional portrait photography industry, and others are more specific to our operations. The occurrence of the events described, and the achievement of the expected results, depend on many factors, some or all of which are not predictable or within our control. Actual results may differ materially from expected results. Factors that may cause actual results to differ from expected results include, among others - risks associated with substantial indebtedness, leverage, debt service, liquidity and the ability to obtain other sources of financing and/or restructure our debt; - risks associated with management’s ability to successfully design and implement a plan to improve results of operations; - risks associated with digital photographic technology; - risks associated with our ability to extend payment terms with our vendors; - risks associated with operating in countries outside the U.S.; - risks associated with our relationship with Wal-Mart, our principal business relationship; - performance of our new or existing studios and their future operating results; - risks of competition from companies including, but not limited to, those currently operating in other photography markets; - risks associated with the domestic professional portrait photography industry; and 21 - other risks and uncertainties affecting Portrait Corporation of America, Inc. and its subsidiaries referred to in this Form 10-K (see Part I, Item 1A., Risk Factors” and “Part II, Item 7., Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”) and in our other current and periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All future written and verbal forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation, and specifically decline any obligation, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the outcomes indicated or implied by forward-looking events discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K might not occur. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 