ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Our company is subject to a number of risks—some are normal to the fabless semiconductor industry, some are the same or similar to those disclosed in previous SEC filings, and some may be present in the future. You should carefully consider all of these risks and the other information in this report before investing in PMC. The fact that certain risks are endemic to the industry does not lessen the significance of the risk. As a result of the following risks, our business, financial condition, operating results and/or liquidity could be materially adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our securities to decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. Our global growth is subject to a number of economic risks. As widely reported, financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intended to address extreme market conditions that include severely restricted credit and declines in real estate values. We have experienced delays in redemptions of our money market funds and we have recognized an $11.8 million loss on investment securities on our shares 11 Table of Contents of the Reserve International Liquidity Fund, Ltd. (the “International Fund”) and the Reserve Primary Fund (the “Primary Fund”, together the “Reserve Funds”) during 2008. Changes in market conditions and the method and timing of the liquidation process of the Reserve Funds could result in further adjustments to the fair value and classification of these investments, and these changes could be material. Currently these conditions have not impaired our liquidity for operational purposes. There can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies, which may impair our liquidity in the future. The current tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products and services. Our global business is also adversely affected by decreases in the general level of economic activity, such as decreases in business and consumer spending, financial strength of our customers and suppliers. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries. Finally, our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to pursue additional expansion opportunities and maintain our desired level of revenue growth in the future. We are subject to rapid changes in demand for our products due to: • variations in our turns business; • short order lead time; • customer inventory levels; • production schedules; and • fluctuations in demand. As a result of this uncertainty in the demand for our products, our past operating results may not be indicative of our future operating results. Our revenues and profits may fluctuate because of factors that are beyond our control. As a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of security analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our ability to project revenues is limited because a significant portion of our quarterly revenues may be derived from orders placed and shipped in the same quarter, which we call our “turns business.” Our turns business varies widely from quarter to quarter. Our customers may delay product orders and reduce delivery lead-time expectations, which may reduce our ability to project revenues beyond the current quarter. While we regularly evaluate end users’ and contract manufacturers’ inventory levels of our products to assess the impact of their inventories on our projected turns business, we do not have complete information on their inventories. This could cause our projections of a quarter’s turns business to be inaccurate, leading to lower revenues than projected. We may fail to meet our forecasts if our customers cancel or delay the purchase of our products or if we are unable to meet their demand. We rely on customer forecasts in order to estimate the appropriate levels of inventory to build and to project our future revenues. Many of our customers have numerous product lines, numerous component requirements for each product, sizeable and complex supplier structures, and typically engage contract manufacturers for additional manufacturing capacity. This complex supply chain creates several variables that make it complicated 12 Table of Contents to accurately forecast our customers’ demand and accurately monitor their inventory levels of our products. If customer forecasts are not accurate, we may build too much inventory, potentially leaving us with excess and obsolete inventory, which would reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our operating results. Conversely, we may build too little inventory to meet customer demand causing us to miss revenue-generating opportunities. The cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products or overproduction due to the failure of anticipated orders to materialize could result in our holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in write-downs of inventory. This difficulty may be compounded when we sell to OEMs indirectly through distributors and other resellers or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand are then based on estimates provided by multiple parties. Our customers often shift buying patterns as they manage inventory levels, market different products, or change production schedules. This makes forecasting their production requirements difficult and can lead to an inventory surplus or shortage of certain of their components. In addition, our products vary in terms of profit margins they generate. If our customers purchase a greater proportion of our lower margin parts in a particular period, it would adversely impact our results of operations. Further, our distributors provide us with periodic reports of their backlog to end customers, sales to end customers and quantities of our products that they have on hand. If the data that is provided to us is inaccurate, it could lead to inaccurate forecasting of our revenues or errors in our reported revenues, gross profit and net income. While backlog is our best estimate of our next quarter’s revenues, it is industry practice to allow customers to cancel, change or defer orders with limited advance notice prior to shipment. As such, backlog may be an unreliable indicator of future revenue levels. Because a significant portion of our operating expenses are fixed, even a small revenue shortfall can have a disproportionately negative effect on our operating results. If the demand for our customers’ products declines, demand for our products will be similarly affected and our revenues, gross margins and operating performance will be adversely affected. Our customers are subject to their own business cycles, most of which are unpredictable in commencement, depth and duration. We cannot accurately predict the continued demand of our customers’ products and the demands of our customers for our products. In the past, networking customers have reduced capital spending without notice, adversely affecting our revenues. As a result of this uncertainty, our past operating results may not be indicative of our future operating results. It is possible that, in future periods, our results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. This could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We rely on a few customers for a major portion of our sales, any one of which could materially impact our revenues should they change their ordering pattern. The loss of a key customer could materially impact our results of operations. We depend on a limited number of customers for large portions of our revenues. In 2008, we did not have any end customers that accounted for more than 10% of our revenues, although we did in the past. In 2007, through direct, distributor and subcontractor purchases, Cisco Systems and EMC Corporation each accounted for more than 10% of our revenues. We do not have long-term volume purchase commitments from any of our major customers. We sell our products solely on the basis of purchase orders. Those customers could decide to cease purchasing products with little or no notice and without significant penalties. A number of factors could cause our customers to cancel or defer orders, including interruptions to their operations due to a downturn in their industries, delays in manufacturing their own product offerings into which our products are incorporated, and natural disasters. Accordingly, our future operating results will continue to depend on the success of our largest customers and on our ability to sell existing and new products to these customers in significant quantities. 13 Table of Contents The loss of a key customer, or a reduction in our sales to any major customer or our inability to attract new significant customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The loss of key personnel could delay us from designing new products. To succeed, we must retain and hire technical personnel highly skilled at the design and test functions needed to develop high-speed networking products. The competition for such employees is intense. We do not have employment agreements in place with many of our key personnel. As employee incentives, we issue common stock options and restricted stock grants that are subject to time vesting, and, in the case of options, have exercise prices at the market value on the grant date. As our stock price varies substantially, the equity awards to employees are effective as retention incentives only if they have economic value. Changes in the political and economic climate in the countries we do business may adversely affect our operating results. We earn a substantial portion of our revenues in Asia. We conduct an increasing portion of our research and development and manufacturing activities outside North America. We procure substantially all of our wafers from Taiwan and use assemblers and testers throughout Asia. Given the depth of our sales and operations in Asia, we face risks that could negatively impact our results of operations, including economic sanctions imposed by the U.S. government, imposition of tariffs and other potential trade barriers or regulations, uncertain protection for intellectual property rights and generally longer receivable collection periods. In addition, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect the revenues, net income, earnings per share and cash flow of our operations in affected markets. Similarly, fluctuations in exchange rates may affect demand for our products in foreign markets or our cost competitiveness and may adversely affect our profitability. Our results of operations are increasingly dependent on our sales in China, which accounted for 30% of our revenues in 2008. Government agencies in China have broad discretion and authority over all aspects of the telecommunications and information technology industry in China; accordingly their decisions may impact our ability to do business in China. Therefore, significant changes in China’s political and economic conditions and governmental policies could have a substantial impact on our business. The growth of Fibre-To-The-Home technology in China has continued to be strong, however, a slowdown in that growth would have an adverse impact on our operating results. In addition to selling our products in a number of countries, an increasing portion of our research and development and manufacturing is conducted outside North America, in particular, India and China. The geographic diversity of our business operations could hinder our ability to coordinate design, manufacturing and sales activities. If we are unable to develop systems and communication processes to support our geographic diversity, we may suffer product development delays or strained customer relationships. Hostilities in the Middle East and India may have a significant impact on our Israeli and India subsidiaries’ ability to conduct its business. We have research and development facilities located in Israel and India which employ approximately 170 and 69 people, respectively. A catastrophic event, such as a terrorist attack that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems in Israel or India could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and our operating results. 14 Table of Contents On an on-going basis, some of our Israeli employees are periodically called into active military duty. In the event of severe hostilities breaking out, a significant number of our Israeli employees may be called into active military duty, resulting in delays in various aspects of production, including product development schedules. Our revenues may decline if we do not maintain a competitive portfolio of products. We are experiencing significantly greater competition in the markets in which we participate. We are expanding into markets, such as the Enterprise Networking and Access Networks markets, which may have established incumbents with substantial financial and technological resources. We expect more intense competition than that which we have traditionally faced as some of these incumbents derive a majority of their earnings from these markets. We typically face competition at the design stage, where customers evaluate alternative design approaches requiring integrated circuits. The markets for our products are intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological advancement in design tools, wafer manufacturing techniques, process tools and alternate networking technologies. We may not be able to develop new products at competitive pricing and performance levels. Even if we are able to do so, we may not complete a new product and introduce it to market in a timely manner. Our customers may substitute use of our products in their next generation equipment with those of current or future competitors, reducing our future revenues. With the shortening product life and design-in cycles in many of our customers’ products, our competitors may have more opportunities to supplant our products in next generation systems. Our customers are increasingly price conscious, as semiconductors sourced from third party suppliers comprise a greater portion of the total materials cost in networking equipment. We continue to experience aggressive price competition from competitors that wish to enter into the market segments in which we participate. These circumstances may make some of our products less competitive, and we may be forced to decrease our prices significantly to win a design. We may lose design opportunities or may experience overall declines in gross margins as a result of increased price competition. Over the next few years, we expect additional competitors, some of which may also have greater financial and other resources, to enter these markets with new products. These companies, individually or collectively, could represent future competition for many design wins, and subsequent product sales. Design wins do not translate into near-term revenues and the timing of revenues from newly designed products is often uncertain. From time to time, we announce new products and design wins for existing and new products. While some industry analysts may use design wins as a metric for future revenues, many design wins have not, and will not, generate any revenues for us, as customer projects are cancelled or unsuccessful in their end market. In the event a design win generates revenues, the amount of revenues will vary greatly from one design win to another. In addition, most revenue-generating design wins do not translate into near-term revenues. Most revenue-generating design wins take more than two years to generate meaningful revenues. We may be unsuccessful in transitioning the design of our new products to new manufacturing processes. Many of our new products are designed to take advantage of new manufacturing processes offering smaller device geometries as they become available, since smaller geometries can provide a product with improved features such as lower power requirements, increased performance, more functionality and lower cost. We believe that the transition of our products to, and introduction of new products using, smaller device geometries is critical for us to remain competitive. We could experience difficulties in migrating to future smaller device geometries or manufacturing processes, which would result in the delay of the production of our products. Our products may become obsolete during these delays, or allow competitors’ parts to be chosen by customers during the design process. 15 Table of Contents Since many of the products we develop do not reach full production sales volumes for a number of years, we may incorrectly anticipate market demand and develop products that achieve little or no market acceptance. Our products generally take between 12 and 24 months from initial conceptualization to development of a viable prototype, and another three to 18 months to be designed into our customers’ equipment and sold in production quantities. We sell products whose characteristics include evolving industry standards, short product life spans and new manufacturing and design technologies. Our products often must be redesigned because manufacturing yields on prototypes are unacceptable or customers redefine their products to meet changing industry standards or customer specifications. As a result, we develop products many years before volume production and may inaccurately anticipate our customers’ needs. Redesigning our products is expensive and may delay production of our products. Our products may become obsolete during these delays, resulting in our inability to recoup our initial investments in product development. The final determination of our income tax liability may be materially different from our income tax provision. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and international jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Additionally our calculations of income taxes are based on our interpretations of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of our income tax liability will not be materially different than what is reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. Should additional taxes be assessed as a result of new legislation, an audit or litigation, if our effective tax rate should change as a result of changes in federal, international or state and local tax laws, or if we were to change the locations where we operate, there could be a material effect on our income tax provision and results of operations in the period or periods in which that determination is made, and potentially to future periods as well. During the second quarter of 2008, one of our foreign subsidiaries settled several ongoing tax matters for less than had been accrued as part of its liability for unrecognized tax benefits, resulting in the recognition of tax benefits of $124.1 million. As a result of this settlement, the Company agreed to pay $18.0 million in cash and utilize $31.6 million in investment tax credits. We have applied the guidance in the FASB issued interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, (“FIN 48”) in determining our accrued liability for unrecognized tax benefits, which totaled $26.8 million on a world-wide consolidated basis as at December 28, 2008. The ultimate resolution of outstanding tax matters could be for amounts in excess of our reserves established in accordance with FIN 48. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity or cash flows in the quarter in which an adjustment is recorded or the tax payment is due. If foreign exchange rates fluctuate significantly, our profitability may decline. We are exposed to foreign currency rate fluctuations because a significant part of our development, test, and selling and administrative costs are incurred in foreign currencies. The U.S. dollar has fluctuated significantly compared to other foreign currencies and this trend may continue. To protect against reductions in value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in foreign exchange rates, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts. The contracts reduce, but do not eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. In addition, this foreign currency risk management policy may not be effective in addressing long-term fluctuations since our contracts do not extend beyond a 12-month maturity. We regularly limit our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations from our foreign net asset or liability positions. We recorded a net $8.2 million foreign exchange gain on the revaluation of our income tax liability, net of deferred tax assets, in 2008 because of the fluctuations in the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies. A 5% shift in the foreign exchange rates between U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar would cause an approximately $1.2 million impact to our pre-tax net income. 16 Table of Contents We are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers. Many of our customers employ contract manufacturers to produce their products and manage their inventories. Many of these contract manufacturers represent greater credit risk than our OEM customers, who do not guarantee our credit receivables related to their contract manufacturers. In addition, a significant portion of our sales flows through our distribution channel, which generally represents a higher credit risk. Should these companies encounter financial difficulties, our revenues could decrease, and collection of our significant accounts receivables with these companies or other customers could be jeopardized. Our business strategy contemplates acquisition of other products, technologies, or businesses, which could adversely affect our operating performance. Acquiring products, intellectual property, technologies, and businesses from third parties is a core part of our business strategy. That strategy depends on the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at reasonable prices and our ability to resolve challenges associated with integrating acquired businesses into our existing business. These challenges include integration of product lines, sales forces, customer lists and manufacturing facilities, development of expertise outside our existing business, diversion of management time and resources, possible divestitures, inventory write-offs and other charges. We also may be forced to replace key personnel who may leave our Company as a result of an acquisition. We cannot be certain that we will find suitable acquisition candidates or that we will be able to meet these challenges successfully. Acquisitions could also result in customer dissatisfaction, performance problems with the acquired company, investment, or technology, the assumption of contingent liabilities, or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which could harm our business. Consequently, we might not be successful in integrating any acquired businesses, products or technologies and may not achieve anticipated revenues and cost benefits. An acquisition could absorb substantial cash resources, require us to incur or assume debt obligations, or issue additional equity. If we are not able to obtain financing, then we may not be in a position to consummate acquisitions. If we issue equity securities in connection with an acquisition, we may dilute our common stock with securities that have an equal or a senior interest in our Company. From time to time, we license, or acquire, technology from third parties to incorporate into our products. Incorporating technology into our products may be more costly or more difficult than expected, or require additional management attention to achieve the desired functionality. The complexity of our products could result in unforeseen or undetected defects or bugs, which could adversely affect the market acceptance of new products and damage our reputation with current or prospective customers. Our current product road map will, in part, be dependent on successful acquisition and integration of intellectual property cores developed by third parties. If we experience difficulties in obtaining or integrating intellectual property from these third parties, it could delay or prevent the development of our products in the future. Although our customers, our suppliers, and we rigorously test our products, our highly complex products may contain defects or bugs. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience defects and bugs in our products. If any of our products contain defects or bugs, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems that are significant to our customers, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy our products. This could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers or attract new customers. In addition, these defects or bugs could interrupt or delay sales to our customers. We may have to invest significant capital and other resources to alleviate problems with our products. If any of these problems are not found until after we have commenced commercial production of a new product, we may be required to incur additional development costs and product recall, repair or replacement costs. These 17 Table of Contents problems may also result in claims against us by our customers or others. In addition, these problems may divert our technical and other resources from other development efforts. Moreover, we would likely lose, or experience a delay in, market acceptance of the affected product or products, and we could lose credibility with our current and prospective customers. Our business may be adversely affected if our customers or suppliers cannot obtain sufficient supplies of other components needed in their product offerings to meet their production projections and target quantities. Some of our products are used by customers in conjunction with a number of other components, such as transceivers, microcontrollers and digital signal processors. If, for any reason, our customers experience a shortage of any component, their ability to produce the forecasted quantity of their product offerings may be affected adversely and our product sales would decline until the shortage is remedied. Such a situation could harm our operating results, cash flow and financial condition. We rely on limited sources of wafer fabrication, the loss of which could delay and limit our product shipments. We do not own or operate a wafer fabrication facility. Two outside wafer foundries supply more than 95% of our semiconductor wafer requirements. Our wafer foundry suppliers also make products for other companies and some make products for themselves, thus we may not have access to adequate capacity or certain process technologies. We have less control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs than competitors with their own fabrication facilities. If the wafer foundries we use are unable or unwilling to manufacture our products in required volumes, or at specified times, we may have to identify and qualify acceptable additional or alternative foundries. This qualification process could take six months or longer. We may not find sufficient capacity quickly enough, if ever, at an acceptable cost, to satisfy our production requirements. Some companies that supply our customers are similarly dependent on a limited number of suppliers to produce their products. These other companies’ products may be designed into the same networking equipment into which our products are designed. Our order levels could be reduced materially if these companies are unable to access sufficient production capacity to produce in volumes demanded by our customers because our customers may be forced to slow down or halt production on the equipment into which our products are designed. We depend on third parties for assembly and testing of our semiconductor products that could delay and limit our product shipments. We depend on third parties in Asia for the assembly and testing of our semiconductor products. In addition, subcontractors in Asia assemble all of our semiconductor products into a variety of packages. Raw material shortages, political and social instability, assembly and testing house service disruptions, currency fluctuations, or other circumstances in the region could force us to seek additional or alternative sources of supply, assembly or testing. This could lead to supply constraints or product delivery delays that, in turn, may result in the loss of revenues. At times, capacity in the assembly industry has become scarce and lead times have lengthened. This may become more severe, which could in turn adversely affect our revenues. We have less control over delivery schedules, assembly processes, testing processes, quality assurances, raw material supplies, and costs than competitors that do not outsource these tasks. Due to the amount of time that it usually takes us to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative assemblers or testers for our components. Any problems that we may encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of our products could damage our customer relationships and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are continuing to develop relationships with additional third-party subcontractors to assemble and test our products. However, even if we use these new subcontractors, we will continue to be subject to all of the risks described above. 18 Table of Contents Our business is vulnerable to interruption by earthquake, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist activity and other events beyond our control. We do not have sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for actual losses from interruption of our business that may occur, and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are vulnerable to a major earthquake and other calamities. We have operations in seismically active regions in British Columbia, Canada and California, and we rely on third-party wafer fabrication and testing facilities in seismically active regions in Asia. We have not undertaken a systematic analysis of the potential consequences to our business and financial results from a major earthquake in either region. We are unable to predict the effects of any such event, but the effects could be seriously harmful to our business. Our estimated restructuring accruals may not be adequate. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, we implemented restructuring plans to streamline production and reduce and reallocate operating costs. In 2001 and 2003, we implemented plans to restructure our operations in response to the decline in demand for our networking products. We reduced the workforce and consolidated or shut down excess facilities in an effort to bring our expenses into line with our revenue expectations. While management uses all available information to estimate these restructuring costs, particularly facilities costs, our estimated accruals may prove to be inadequate. If our actual sublease revenues or the results of our exiting negotiations differ from our assumptions, we may have to record additional charges, which could materially affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flow. From time to time, we become defendants in legal proceedings about which we are unable to assess our exposure and which could become significant liabilities upon judgment. We become defendants in legal proceedings from time to time. Companies in our industry have been subject to claims related to patent infringement and product liability, as well as contract and personal claims. We may not be able to accurately assess the risk related to these suits, and we may be unable to accurately assess our level of exposure. These proceedings may result in material charges to our operating results in the future if our exposure is material and if our ability to assess our exposure becomes clearer. If we cannot protect our proprietary technology, we may not be able to prevent competitors from copying or misappropriating our technology and selling similar products, which would harm our revenues. To compete effectively, we must protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. We hold numerous patents and have a number of pending patent applications. However some of our patents are expiring in 2009, which could have a negative affect on our ability to prevent competitors from duplicating certain of our products. We might not succeed in obtaining patents from any of our pending applications. Even if we are awarded patents, they may not provide any meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us, as they may not be of sufficient scope or strength, or may not be issued in all countries where our products can be sold. In addition, our competitors may be able to design around our patents. To protect our product technology, documentation and other proprietary information, we enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, consultants and strategic partners. We require our employees to acknowledge their obligation to maintain confidentiality with respect to PMC’s products. Despite these efforts, we cannot guarantee that these parties will maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information in the course of future employment or working with other business partners. We develop, 19 Table of Contents manufacture and sell our products in Asia and other countries that may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. This makes piracy of our technology and products more likely. Steps we take to protect our proprietary information may not be adequate to prevent theft of our technology. We may not be able to prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are similar to or better than ours. Our products employ technology that may infringe on the intellectual property and the proprietary rights of third parties, which may expose us to litigation and prevent us from selling our products. Vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions characterize the semiconductor industry. This often results in expensive and lengthy litigation. We, and our customers or suppliers, may be accused of infringing patents or other intellectual property rights owned by third parties in the future. An adverse result in any litigation could force us to pay substantial damages, stop manufacturing, using and selling the infringing products, spend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, discontinue using certain processes or obtain licenses to the infringing technology. In addition, we may not be able to develop non-infringing technology, or find appropriate licenses on reasonable terms or at all. Patent disputes in the semiconductor industry are often settled through cross-licensing arrangements. Our portfolio of patents may not have the breadth to enable us to settle an alleged patent infringement claim through a cross-licensing arrangement. We may therefore be more exposed to third party claims than some of our larger competitors and customers. The majority of our customers are required to obtain licenses from and pay royalties to third parties for the sale of systems incorporating our semiconductor devices. Customers may also make claims against us with respect to infringement. Furthermore, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringing our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. This could consume significant resources and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, regardless of the litigation’s outcome. We have significant debt in the form of senior convertible notes. We have $68.3 million of 2.25% senior convertible notes outstanding. Our debt could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes, and could make us vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. On October 15, 2025, we are obliged to repay the full remaining principal amount of the notes that have not been converted into our common stock, but we are also subject to certain triggering events that may cause the notes to be repaid earlier. Securities we issue to fund our operations could dilute your ownership. We may decide to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of current stockholders will be reduced and the new equity securities may have priority rights to your investment. We may not obtain sufficient financing on terms that are favorable to you or us. We may delay, limit or eliminate some or all of our proposed operations if adequate funds are not available. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. We expect that the price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate significantly, as it has in the past. In particular, fluctuations in our stock price and our price-to-earnings multiple may have made our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis. 20 Table of Contents Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against a company following periods of volatility and decline in the market price of their securities. If instituted against us, regardless of the outcome, such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention and resources and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, we could incur substantial punitive and other damages relating to such litigation. Provisions in Delaware law, our charter documents and our stockholder rights plan may delay or prevent another entity from acquiring us without the consent of our Board of Directors. We adopted a stockholder rights plan in 2001, pursuant to which we declared a dividend of one share purchase right for each outstanding share of common stock. If certain events occur, including if an investor tenders for or acquires more than 15% of our outstanding common stock, stockholders (other than the acquirer) may exercise their rights and receive $650 worth of our common stock in exchange for $325 per right, or we may, at our option, issue one share of common stock in exchange for each right, or we may redeem the rights for $0.001 per right. The issuance of the rights could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us. In addition, our Board of Directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. Delaware law imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Although we believe these provisions of our charter documents, Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan will provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 