RISK FACTORS We wish to caution readers that in addition to the important factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following important factors, among others, sometimes have affected, or in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause our actual consolidated results during fiscal 2005, and beyond, to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Risks Related to Our Business We are materially dependent upon Wal-Mart. Approximately 96% of our sales for fiscal 2004 were derived from sales in Wal-Mart stores. Therefore, we are materially dependent upon our relationship with Wal-Mart, the continued goodwill of Wal-Mart and the integrity of the Wal-Mart brand name in the retail marketplace. Any deterioration in our Wal-Mart relationship would have a material adverse effect on us. Because we represent only a small fraction of Wal-Mart’s sales, any deterioration of our relationship with Wal-Mart would have a far greater effect on us than on Wal-Mart. Furthermore, because of the demands on us from our current business model of opening studios in all new Wal-Mart supercenters and stores of 100,000 square feet or larger, we have not been able to diversify our business. This could adversely affect us in the event our Wal-Mart business declines. In addition, our competitive posture could be weakened with negative changes in Wal-Mart’s competitive posture. We experienced a significant downturn in our results of operations in fiscal 2004 were unable to comply with certain financial covenants in our prior senior secured credit facility. We had a net loss and a deficiency of earnings to fixed charges in fiscal 2004, and we have a negative net worth. In fiscal 2004, for the first time since fiscal 2000, our year over year consolidated sales decreased. Consolidated sales decreased from $324.8 million in fiscal 2003 to $323.6 million in fiscal 2004. Primarily as a result of these decreases in sales, we saw our income from operations decrease from $34.2 million in fiscal 2003 to $17.5 million in fiscal 2004. Net loss was $29.7 million in fiscal 2004 as compared to net income of $1.3 million in fiscal 2003. We experienced a 7.0% decline in year over year same studio sales in our Wal-Mart permanent studio operations in fiscal 2004, compared to an increase of 1.5% in fiscal 2003. As of October 31, 2004, the end of our fiscal third quarter, we were not in compliance with certain financial covenants contained in our prior senior secured credit facility agreement. Although on July 15, 2005, we refinanced our prior senior secured credit facility with a new senior secured revolving credit facility and a new letters of credit facility, there is no assurance we will be able to remain in compliance with the conditions to borrowing under our new senior secured revolving credit facility or our new letters of credit facility. - 14 - Although we are implementing measures to improve our performance and believe that the decline in results of operations was caused in part by external factors beyond our control, such as a reduction in disposable income due to increases in gasoline prices and rising interest rates and other economic pressures affecting U.S. customers, we may be unable to improve our results of operations and there can be no assurance we will be able to remain in compliance with the covenants in our various debt agreements. We had a net loss of $29.7 million and our fixed charges exceeded earnings by $15.0 million in fiscal 2004. There can be no assurance that we will report net income or earnings in excess of fixed charges in any future period. Future net losses and/or deficiencies of earnings to fixed charges may prevent us from pursuing our strategies for growth and could cause us to be unable to meet our debt obligations, capital expenditure requirements or working capital needs. Although we obtained financing in July 2005, our net loss in fiscal 2004 and potential future losses may impact our ability to obtain adequate financing on satisfactory terms or at all. In addition, as of January 30, 2005, our total assets were less than our total liabilities, resulting in a negative net worth. We may not be able to liquidate our assets to pay our liabilities if we are unable to fund our operations in the future. Substantial doubt was raised about PCA LLC’s, our wholly-owned operating subsidiary, ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte & Touche LLP, issued a report dated June 24, 2005 which expressed an unqualified opinion and included an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our operating subsidiary’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to continue as a going concern in connection with their audit of PCA LLC’s consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2005. We anticipate, based on our currently proposed plans and assumptions, that the additional liquidity we have obtained from the issuance of senior secured notes together with our new senior secured revolving credit facility and our new letters of credit facility and our obtaining waivers of existing defaults under our debt agreements, all of which occurred subsequent to the report issued in connection with PCA LLC’s consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2005, will be sufficient to satisfy our cash requirements in fiscal 2005. See further discussion in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity.” We were unable to timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2004 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the thirteen weeks ended May 1, 2005 because of the ineffectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting of our Mexican subsidiary. If we fail to improve and maintain the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting of our Mexican subsidiary, we may not be able to accurately and timely file our periodic reports and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. During fiscal 2004, we became aware of a tax claim for amounts due to SAT, the Mexican tax authority, from our Mexican subsidiary. The amounts alleged due to SAT consisted of $1.4 million for the fiscal years 1997 and 1998 and approximately $0.1 million for January through June of 2000. As a result of our delinquency in paying these amounts, fines, penalties and interest of $4.5 million were added by SAT to the outstanding claim. We conducted a preliminary investigation of this matter and subsequently engaged law firms in Mexico and the U.S. to assist in negotiating a settlement with SAT and an independent accounting firm (other than our independent registered public accounting firm) to perform forensic accounting work. We recorded a $1.5 million charge in the third quarter of fiscal 2004 reflecting management’s best estimate of the ultimate settlement of this claim. As a result of our investigation, we dismissed several employees who we suspect may have been engaged in fraudulent activities and hired new employees to replace those employees. As a result of our internal investigation, we discovered errors in the financial statements provided to us each period beginning in 1997 through the third quarter of fiscal 2004 by our Mexico accounting department. As a result, we concluded that certain adjustments were required to restate our historical financial statements. Such adjustments have been reflected as a restatement in our accompanying annual financial statements as of and for the years ended February 1, 2004 and February 2, 2003. The uncertainty of the impact of these activities on our financial reporting and other disclosures is one reason we did not file our annual report on Form 10-K for the 2004 fiscal year and our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of fiscal 2005 on a timely basis. Although we are acting to rectify these deficiencies and continuing to evaluate and improve our internal controls over financial reporting, we may be unsuccessful and other deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting could arise in the future. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls are effective in any future period, we may again be unable to accurately and timely file a periodic report. Failure to file a periodic report, if uncured within a specified time period, would result in an event of default under the terms of our indebtedness. - 15 - Our business practices and operations need to be acceptable to Wal-Mart. Because of the importance of our Wal-Mart relationship to us, our business practices and procedures must at all times be acceptable to Wal-Mart. Consequently, in the future, we may make changes to our business practices and procedures, including with regards to advertising and promotions, pricing, product offerings, studio facilities, technology, management and employment practices in response to Wal-Mart’s requests that would not be in our best interests and could materially and adversely affect our sales, costs, margins, business development or other aspects of our business. In addition, under our license agreements Wal-Mart has substantial contractual rights, which it can exercise in a manner that can have a material adverse effect on us. Among other things, pursuant to our license agreements we must - relocate any studio location in a Wal-Mart store at Wal-Mart's request, - obtain Wal-Mart's prior written approval of all advertising, - maintain specified levels of worker's compensation and liability insurance, - operate the studios every day that the Wal-Mart store is open for specified hours, - indemnify Wal-Mart from any claim by an employee, vendor or portrait studio customer relating to studio operation or for accident or injury anywhere in the Wal-Mart store, - observe all Wal-Mart policies relating to customer service, and - observe all Wal-Mart policies relating to the activities of our employees in the Wal-Mart store, and we are not permitted to - make improvements to our Wal-Mart studios without Wal-Mart's prior written consent, - conduct any “fire,”“50% off” or similar sales, - issue a press release using the Wal-Mart name without Wal-Mart’s consent, and - advertise on radio or television without Wal-Mart’s consent. - 16 - Wal-Mart may terminate, breach, otherwise limit or increase our expenses under our license or lease agreements. Our Wal-Mart permanent studios in the U.S. and Canada are operated pursuant to license agreements while our permanent studios in Mexico, Germany and the U.K. are operated pursuant to lease agreements. These license and lease agreements can be terminated or suspended by Wal-Mart for various reasons, some of which are beyond our control. As of January 30, 2005, our license and lease agreements with various Wal-Mart entities have the following expiration dates: (1) for our 1,564 U.S. Wal-Mart studios that were open when the U.S. Wal-Mart agreement was entered into, April 2012; for each of our 497 Wal-Mart studios opened subsequent to April 4, 2002, June 30 of the fifth year following the opening of that studio, in each case if no renewal option is exercised; (2) for each of our 226 Canadian Wal-Mart studios, various expiration dates, ranging from fiscal 2004 to 2010, depending upon the date the relevant studio commenced operations; (3) for each of our 89 Mexican Wal-Mart studios, terminable at will by either party following a studio’s first year of operation; (4) for each of our 20 German Wal-Mart studios, two years from its opening date with automatic renewals for successive periods of six months each if not terminated by either party (either party can terminate at the end of any term upon three months notice); and (5) for our five U.K. Wal-Mart studios, 2008 for two studios, 2009 for two studios and 2013 for one studio. These agreements are more fully described in “Business—Licenses, Trademarks and Patents—Wal-Mart Licenses.” Wal-Mart is under no obligation to renew existing locations. Wal-Mart may also increase the expenses we are required to pay under our license or lease agreements upon renewal of the agreements. In addition, license fees under our Wal-Mart licenses may increase periodically if certain sales or other conditions are met. We do not have the right to close any poorly performing locations prior to the expiration of the term of the license or lease for such locations. Although our license and lease agreements prohibit Wal-Mart from licensing or leasing permanent portrait studios to any other person in the stores in which we operate, they do not make us the exclusive provider for all Wal-Mart stores. In addition, our license and lease agreements do not prohibit Wal-Mart from selling many of the tangible goods we sell, or from developing film, in other departments within its stores. Furthermore, there is always the risk that Wal-Mart might breach one or more of our license or lease agreements. The loss or breach of a substantial number of the licenses or leases from Wal-Mart could have a material adverse effect on us. An adverse change in any other aspects of our business relationship with Wal-Mart, the reduction of the number of studios operated pursuant to such arrangements, a decision by Wal-Mart to license or lease studios to other persons or changes in Wal-Mart’s expansion plans could have a material adverse effect on us. See “Item 1. Business—Licenses, Trademarks and Patents—Wal-Mart Licenses.” An economic downturn, a reduction in consumer spending or decreased customer traffic in our host stores could materially adversely affect our business. Portrait photography services may be affected by negative trends in the general economy. Any reduction in consumer confidence or disposable income in general may affect companies in this specialty retail service industry. In addition, the portrait studios in Wal-Mart stores rely largely on customer traffic generated by the host stores. The host stores, as part of the retail industry, may be affected by a downturn in the economy and a decrease in discretionary income of potential customers. For example, we previously provided portrait photography services in Kmart host stores. During the term of our relationship with Kmart, Kmart’s business was not growing, and this negatively impacted our own performance. There is no assurance that Wal-Mart or any other host stores in which we may operate will not suffer similar financial difficulties. A reduction in host store traffic could adversely affect us. In addition, we have substantial fixed costs due to our three facilities in the Charlotte, North Carolina area. These fixed costs make us vulnerable in the event of an economic downturn or other inability to generate sufficient cash flow. - 17 - We may not be able to finance the rapid growth we may experience. In April 2002, we executed a U.S. Master License Agreement with Wal-Mart. As part of this agreement, Wal-Mart committed to provide us a minimum of 150 new studios per year for four years and, thereafter, to use commercially reasonable efforts to provide 150 new studios per year. Further, Wal-Mart has agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to include a Wal-Mart Portrait Studio operated by us in the blueprint of each new supercenter (except for new supercenters of 145,000 square feet) and store of 100,000 square feet or larger. We anticipate opening a studio in all new Wal-Mart stores where our studios are incorporated into the blueprint. This will require us to make substantial capital expenditures. To accomplish this, as well as to maintain and increase our sales base and to respond to shifts in customer demand and changes in industry trends, we will need to generate sufficient cash flow or obtain sufficient capital for purposes of, among other things, financing capital expenditures, infrastructure growth and acquisitions. There is no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow or that financing on acceptable terms will be available and permitted to be incurred under the terms of our current and any future indebtedness to fund our future growth. Our failure to generate sufficient cash flow or obtain sufficient financing to fund our future growth could materially adversely affect us. The rapid growth of portrait studios within Wal-Mart could limit our ability to fund growth outside of Wal-Mart. During fiscal 2004, we were unable to meet the payment terms of our key supplier of photographic film, paper and processing chemistry. Additionally, the German parent company of our key supplier recently filed a petition for insolvency. If our key supplier becomes unable to continue to provide us supplies under our current contract, we will need to obtain an alternative source of supplies. If we enter into an agreement to obtain such supplies at less desirable terms, we may be required to raise additional equity and/or debt financing and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. During fiscal 2004, we were unable to meet the payment terms of AgfaPhoto USA Corporation, our key supplier of photographic film, paper, and processing chemistry. We have negotiated payment terms with AgfaPhoto USA Corporation that extend the payment date for our outstanding payables (including interest which had been accrued at an annualized rate of 6%) as of June 15, 2005 until June 15, 2006 and we have agreed to pay for products purchased from AgfaPhoto USA Corporation on or after June 15, 2005 at or prior to their delivery. We are seeking to enter into a revised supply contract with AgfaPhoto USA Corporation within the next few months. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so. Our obligations to AgfaPhoto USA Corporation are secured by a lien on the products which we purchase from them. Additionally, on May 27, 2005, AgfaPhoto USA Corporation’s German parent company, AgfaPhoto GmbH, filed a petition for insolvency. While we have been informed that AgfaPhoto USA Corporation has sufficient funding to continue its normal operations in the foreseeable future, if AgfaPhoto USA Corporation becomes unable to continue to provide us supplies under our current contract, we will need to obtain an alternative source of supplies. Although management believes that the available alternative sources of supplies are adequate, there can be no assurance we would be able to obtain such supplies at the same or similar terms to those we have with AgfaPhoto USA Corporation. If we enter into an agreement to obtain such supplies at less desirable terms, we may be required to raise additional equity and/or debt financing and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. There is no assurance we will be able to obtain new sources of funds on favorable terms or otherwise. - 18 - Our inability to raise prices could limit our growth. Because of competitive pressures, we are unlikely to be able to increase profitability on a sustained basis by raising our prices. Rather, our ability to increase profitability over the longer term will depend on our ability to open new studios, to increase our customer volumes in our existing studios and to manage expanding operations effectively. If we lose our key personnel, our business may be adversely affected. Our continued success depends upon, to a large extent, the efforts and abilities of our key employees, particularly Barry J. Feld, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. Mr. Feld’s departure would result in a loss of leadership and a strong contact person with Wal-Mart. We cannot assure you of the continued employment of Mr. Feld or any other members of management. Competition for qualified management personnel is intense. Mr. Feld’s employment agreement is terminable at will by either party and, while he would forfeit certain stock option benefits if he chose to compete with us, he is not prohibited from doing so. The loss of the services of our key employees or the failure to retain qualified employees when needed could materially adversely affect us. Our business may be adversely affected if we cannot manage the growth of our operations or generate sufficient cash flow or obtain sufficient capital to fund future growth. It is essential to our relationship with Wal-Mart that we open new studios in all stores in which Wal-Mart wants us to do so. Our resources are not as great as Wal-Mart’s, however, and it could be difficult or impossible for us to keep pace with Wal-Mart’s rapid expansion plans. Our future growth will require us to manage our expanding domestic and international operations and to adapt our operational, manufacturing, financial and management systems to respond to changes in our business environment while maintaining a competitive cost structure. The expansion of our business will continue to place significant demands on us to improve our operational, manufacturing, financial and management systems, to develop further the management skills of our managers and supervisors, and to continue to retain, train, motivate and effectively manage our employees. Our failure to manage any future growth effectively and to adequately expand these systems in response to such growth could materially adversely affect us by limiting our ability to continue to expand or to continue our current level of service to customers in our existing studios. Additionally, our ability to maintain and increase our revenue base and to respond to shifts in customer demand and changes in industry trends will be partially dependent on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow or obtain sufficient capital for the purpose of, among other things, financing capital expenditures, infrastructure growth and acquisitions. There can be no assurances that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow or that financing will be available on acceptable terms, or permitted to be incurred under the terms of our new senior secured revolving credit facility, our new letters of credit facility or our other existing indebtedness or any future indebtedness, to fund our future growth. Our failure to generate sufficient cash flow or obtain sufficient financing to fund our future growth could materially adversely affect us. Our expansion into geographic areas we already serve could adversely affect our business. We have experienced reduced sales at existing studios when we have opened new studios in close proximity to existing studios. Success of our growth strategy will somewhat depend on our ability to minimize this effect. In addition, our license agreement with Wal-Mart prohibits us from opening a new non-Wal-Mart studio within a certain distance of any store where we operate a Wal-Mart portrait studio. This prohibition could negatively impact our non-Wal-Mart expansion plans. - 19 - Our fourth quarter sales and income are disproportionately high and we are vulnerable to downturns in consumer holiday spending that can adversely affect our business. Our business is highly seasonal. The holiday season accounts for a high percentage of our sales and operating income, and our fourth fiscal quarter, typically late October/early November through late January/early February, generally produces a large percentage of annual sales and operating income. The fourth quarters in fiscal 2004 and 2003 have accounted for approximately 33% of our annual sales and approximately 101% and 67%, respectively, of our annual operating income. Our operations can be adversely affected by inclement weather or other factors that reduce consumer holiday spending in our host stores, especially during the important fiscal fourth quarter. If our competitors initiate price-cutting or changes in package configurations or introduce new technology, we may experience lower sales or higher costs. The professional portrait photography industry is highly competitive. Certain of our competitors and potential competitors are more established, benefit from greater name recognition and have significantly greater capital and resources than we do. Moreover, evolving technology and business relationships may make it easier and cheaper for our competitors and potential competitors to develop products or services similar to ours or to sell competing products or services in our markets. The companies in our industry compete on the basis of value, price, quality, access, service, package size, technology and convenience of retail distribution channel. The major professional portrait studio companies, including CPI Corporation and Olan Mills, operate permanent studios in retail chains and independent locations. To compete successfully, we must continue to remain competitive in areas of value, price, quality, access, service, package size, technology and convenience of distribution and we must do so on terms and at prices compatible with the Wal-Mart philosophy. The evolution of digital portrait technology has introduced additional competition from companies, such as Picture People, which operate independent locations specializing in such portrait technology. Although we have not experienced a significant decline in the discount retail distribution channel due to such technology or companies, there is no assurance such technology, or companies specializing in such technology, will not take significant business from us, resulting in either lower sales or higher cost of operation for us. Furthermore, consumer products, particularly those that are value-priced, are subject to significant price competition. There is no assurance we will not be forced to engage in price-cutting initiatives to respond to competitive and consumer pressures. The failure of our sales volumes to grow sufficiently to improve overall sales and income as a result of a competitive price reduction could materially adversely affect us. Our international expansion may not be successful and may expose us to additional risks that could adversely affect our business. International operations in Canada, Mexico, Germany and the U.K. accounted for approximately 11% of sales during fiscal 2004. We expect international sales to increase in the future as we continue to grow in Canada and Mexico and, potentially, as we expand operations in Europe (we currently only operate European studios in Germany and the U.K.). To the extent our international operations increase, we will become more vulnerable to risks involving the geographic distance of operations, differences in language or culture, changes in business regulations, taxation and currency fluctuations and political instability. Further, there is no proven market for portrait photography services in retail studio locations in Europe. Therefore, our in-store studio model may not perform well in Europe. - 20 - We may not be able to keep pace with the evolution of technology and develop and invest in new technologies as required to compete effectively. The evolution of digital portrait technology, computer technology, manufacturing technology and information technology may make it difficult for us to continue using our current technologies and require us to invest in new technologies. There can be no assurance we can generate sufficient capital from operations or outside financing sources to invest in such evolving technologies. To the extent we do invest in such technology, there is no assurance our investment will lead to increased sales or profits. In addition, our ability to develop digital technology, e-commerce capabilities and other new information and distribution technologies may affect our position in the marketplace. As digital photography and processing systems evolve and the costs associated with such systems continue to decline, it may impair our ability to compete in the marketplace as we may no longer be able to produce our products at low costs. A significant increase in piracy of our photographs could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We rely on copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights in our portrait photographs. However, our ability to prevent piracy and enforce our proprietary rights in our photographs is limited. We are aware that unauthorized copying of photographs occurs within our industry. A significant increase in the frequency of unauthorized copying of our photographs could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations by reducing revenues from photograph sales. Any disruption in our manufacturing process could have a material adverse impact on our business. We are dependent upon the efficient operation of our portrait processing facilities to maintain our portrait quality, timeliness of delivery and low cost operation. These facilities are located in a single metropolitan area, Charlotte, North Carolina, and serve primarily all of our operations worldwide. Any disruption of our processing systems for any reason could adversely impact us. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could materially adversely affect our business and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. We have outstanding a substantial amount of debt. As of July 15, 2005, this debt consisted of: - $50.0 million of senior secured notes due 2009, - $18.0 million of letters of credit issued under our new $20.0 million letters of credit facility, - $165.0 million of senior notes, - $10.0 million of senior subordinated notes, - $30.0 million of senior subordinated discount notes and $14.6 million of additional principal outstanding from capitalized interest on such notes, and - $20.7 million of interest bearing extended vendor payables due in June 2006 if we are unable to renegotiate the supply contract. We will need to refinance our $50.0 million senior secured notes, our new $10.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility, our new $20.0 million letters of credit facility and our $165.0 million of senior notes by 2009, and our $30.0 million of senior subordinated discount notes and our $10.0 million of senior subordinated notes by 2010. We do not expect to generate sufficient cash flow from future operations to repay our indebtedness and will need to refinance to do so. There is no assurance we will be able to obtain new sources of credit on favorable terms or otherwise. If we are unable to refinance our debt when due, we could be deemed in default by our lenders, which could lead to foreclosure on our assets and perhaps insolvency. - 21 - We incurred approximately $32.5 million in net interest expense in fiscal 2004, which represented approximately 186% of our operating income for the year. As of January 30, 2005, approximately 11.7% of our debt bears interest at floating rates and if interest rates rise, our debt service obligation will rise as well, except to the extent we are able to enter into hedging contracts on favorable terms to mitigate our exposure to interest rate movements. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for more detail about our debt. Our substantial amount of debt, as well as the guarantees of our guarantors and the security interests in our assets and the assets of our guarantors, could adversely impact our business and us by, including but not limited to: - increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; - limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; - requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be used for interest payments on our debt and annual revolver pay downs required by our new senior secured revolving credit facility, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our studio expansion program and capital expenditures; - limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and - placing us at a disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt or greater resources. The agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our business. The agreements governing our new senior secured revolving credit facility, our new letters of credit facility, our senior secured notes, our senior notes, our senior subordinated notes and our senior subordinated discount notes contain a number of covenants imposing significant restrictions on our business. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. These covenants place restrictions on our ability to, among other things: - incur more debt; - pay dividends, redeem or repurchase our stock or make other distributions; - make acquisitions or investments; - enter into transactions with affiliates; - merge or consolidate with others; - dispose of assets or use asset sale proceeds; - create liens on our assets; and - pledge capital stock of any subsidiary that is held by PCA LLC, PCA Finance Corp. or any of their domestic subsidiaries. - 22 - Our new senior secured revolving credit facility and our new letters of credit facility each also require us to meet a number of financial ratios and tests on a regular basis. We describe certain of these requirements in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions, as well as any failure to make a payment of interest or principal when due, could result in a default under the agreements governing our debt. Such a default would permit some of our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, and the commitments of the senior lenders to make further extensions of credit under our new senior secured revolving credit facility and issue additional letters of credit under our new letters of credit facility could be terminated. If we are unable to repay debt to our senior lenders, these lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that debt. Forward Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes “forward-looking statements,” as defined by federal securities laws, with respect to our financial condition, results of operations and business and our expectations or beliefs concerning future events. Words such as, but not limited to, “believes,”“expects,”“anticipates,”“estimates,”“intends,”“plans,”“targets,”“likely,”“would,”“could,” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Many risks and uncertainties are inherent in the professional portrait photography industry. Others are more specific to our operations. The occurrence of the events described, and the achievement of the expected results, depend on many events, some or all of which are not predictable or within our control. Actual results may differ materially from expected results. Factors that may cause actual results to differ from expected results include, among others - risks associated with substantial indebtedness, leverage, debt service and liquidity; - risks associated with our relationship with Wal-Mart, our principal business relationship; - performance of our new studios and their future operating results; - risks of competition from companies including, but not limited to, those currently operating in other photography markets; - risks associated with the domestic professional portrait photography industry; and - 23 - - other risks and uncertainties affecting Portrait Corporation of America, Inc. and its subsidiaries referred to in this Form 10-K (see “Item 1. Business—Risk Factors” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”) and in our other current and periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, all of which are difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of which are beyond our control. All future written and verbal forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. We undertake no obligation, and specifically decline any obligation, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K might not occur. ITEM 