Risk Factors — Future Operating Results — Industry consolidation and other competitive pressures could affect prices or demand for our products and services, and our business may be adversely affected,” Part I, Item 1(A). EMPLOYEES As of February 1, 2009, Sybase and its subsidiaries had approximately 3,995 regular employees. For information regarding our executive officers, see “Directors, Executive Officers of Registrant and Corporate Governance,” Part III, Item 10. ITEM 1 (A): RISK FACTORS Future Operating Results Our future operating results may vary substantially from period to period due to a variety of significant risks, some of which are discussed below and elsewhere in this report on Form 10-K. We strongly urge current and prospective investors to carefully consider the cautionary statements and risks contained in this report including those regarding forward-looking statements described on page 3. Significant variation in the timing and amount of our revenues may cause fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and an accurate estimation of our revenues is difficult. Our operating results have varied from quarter to quarter in the past and may vary in the future depending upon a number of factors described below, including many that are beyond our control. Our revenues, and particularly our new software license revenues, are difficult to forecast, and as a result our quarterly operating results can fluctuate substantially. As a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our financial results should not be relied on to indicate our future performance. We operate with little or no software license backlog, and quarterly license revenues for our IPG and iAS businesses depend largely on orders booked and shipped in a quarter. Historically, we have recorded a majority of our quarterly license revenues in the last month of each quarter, particularly during the final two weeks. In the past we have experienced fluctuations in the purchasing patterns of our customers. Although many of our customers are larger enterprises, a trend toward more conservative IT spending and continued weakness in the economic and capital markets could result in fewer of these customers making substantial investments in our products and services in any given period. Therefore, if one or more significant orders do not close in a particular quarter, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, as was the case in the second quarter of 2007 when we refused to accept certain terms in a large transaction, which delayed the closing of this transaction from the second quarter of 2007 to the third quarter of 2007, but resulted in better terms for us. Our operating expenses are based on projected annual and quarterly revenue levels, and are generally incurred ratably throughout each quarter. Since our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, failure to realize projected revenues for a specified period could adversely impact operating results, reducing net income or causing an operating loss for that period. The deferral or non-occurrence of such revenues would materially adversely affect our operating results for that quarter and could impair our business in future periods. Because we do not know when, or if, our potential customers will place orders and finalize contracts, we cannot accurately predict our revenue and operating results for future quarters. - 10 - Table of Contents In addition to the above factors, the timing and amount of our revenues are subject to a number of factors that make it difficult to accurately estimate revenues and operating results on a quarterly or annual basis. Or financial forecasts are based on aggregated internal sales forecasts which may incorrectly assess our ability to complete sales within the forecast period, due to competitive pressures, economic conditions or reduced information technology spending. In our past experience IPG and iAS revenues in the fourth quarter benefit from the annual renewal of contracts by large enterprise customers or such customers placing orders before the expiration of budgets tied to the calendar year. This typically results in revenues from license fees declining from the fourth quarter of one year to the first quarter of the next year. In the past, this seasonality has contributed to lower total revenues and earnings in the first quarter compared to the prior fourth quarter. In the fourth quarter of 2008 we experienced a minimal amount of transactions attributable to large enterprise customers placing orders before budgets expired. We cannot assure you that estimates of our revenues and operating results can be made with certain accuracy or predictability. Fluctuations in our operating results may contribute to volatility in our stock price. Economic and credit market conditions in the U.S. and worldwide could adversely affect our revenues. Our revenues and operating results depend on the overall demand for our products and services. Our revenues for the quarter ending December 31, 2008 exceeded revenues for the quarter ending December 31, 2007 by 3 percent. If the U.S. and worldwide economies continue to weaken, either alone or in tandem with other factors beyond our control (including war, political unrest, shifts in market demand for our products, actions by competitors, etc.), we may not be able to maintain revenue growth. The ongoing worldwide recession, weakness in the credit markets and significant liquidity problems for the financial services industry may also impact our revenues. While we have not noted significant change in buying patterns by financial services customers, the financial services industry is one of the largest markets for our products and services and decreased demand from this industry, including from consolidation in the financial services industry, would adversely affect our revenues and operating results. In light of the difficult economic and business environment, we are acting to conservatively manage our expenses in an effort to maintain or expand our financial performance. If the worldwide recession continues or worsens, these efforts many not be successful and our financial results could be materially weaker than forecast. If we fail to maintain or expand our relationships with strategic partners and indirect distribution channels our license revenues could decline. We currently derive a significant portion of our license revenues from sales of our IPG and iAS products and services through non-exclusive distribution channels, including strategic partners, systems integrators (SIs), original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and value-added resellers (VARs). We generally anticipate that sales of our products through these channels will account for a substantial portion of our software license revenues in the foreseeable future. Because most of our channel relationships are non-exclusive, there is a risk that some or all of them could promote or sell our competitors’ products instead of ours, or that they will be unwilling or unable to effectively sell new products that we may introduce. Additionally, if we are unable to expand our indirect channels, or these indirect channels fail to generate significant revenues in the future, our business could be harmed. Our development, marketing and distribution strategies also depend in part on our ability to form strategic relationships with other technology companies. If these companies change their business focus, enter into strategic alliances with other companies or are acquired by our competitors or others, support for our products could be reduced or eliminated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. System failures, delays, insufficient capacity and other problems could harm our reputation and business, cause us to lose customers and expose us to customer liability. - 11 - Table of Contents The success of Sybase 365 is highly dependent on its ability to provide reliable services to customers. These operations could be interrupted by any damage to or failure of, or insufficient capacity of, computer hardware, software or networks utilized or maintained by us, our customers, or suppliers. Additionally, the failure of, or insufficient capacity of our connections and outsourced service arrangements with third parties could interrupt our services and materially adversely impact our financial performance and relations with customers, including causing liability to our customers. Sybase 365’s systems and operations may also be vulnerable to damage or interruption from power loss, transmission cable cuts and other telecommunications failures, natural disasters, interruption of service due to potential facility migrations, computer viruses or software defects, physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events and errors by our employees or third-party service providers. As use of Sybase 365’s services increases, we must continue to expand and upgrade our systems and operations. If we do not accurately project the need for expansions and upgrades to our operations and perform such expansions and upgrades in a timely manner, our services could fail or be interrupted. Because many of our services play a mission-critical role for our customers, any damage to or failure of the infrastructure we rely on, including that of our customers and vendors, could disrupt the operation of our network and the provision of our services, result in the loss of current and potential customers and expose us to potential contractual performance and other liabilities. Industry consolidation and other competitive pressures could affect prices or demand for our products and services, and our business may be adversely affected. The IT industry and the market for our core database infrastructure products and services is becoming increasingly competitive due to a variety of factors including a maturing enterprise infrastructure software market and changes in customer IT spending habits. There is also a growing trend toward consolidation in the software industry. Continued consolidation within the software industry could create opportunities for larger technology companies, such as IBM, Microsoft and Oracle, to increase their market share through the acquisition of companies that dominate certain lucrative market niches or that have loyal installed customer bases. Continued consolidation activity could pose a significant competitive disadvantage to us. The significant purchasing and market power of larger companies may also subject us to increased pricing pressures. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources, and a larger installed customer base than us. In addition, our competitors’ advertising and marketing efforts could overshadow our own and/or adversely influence customer perception of our products and services, and harm our business and prospects as a result. To remain competitive, we must develop and promote new products and solutions, enhance existing products and retain competitive pricing policies, all in a timely manner. Our failure to compete successfully with new or existing competitors in these and other areas could have a material adverse impact on our ability to generate new revenues or sustain existing revenue levels. We may encounter difficulties in completing acquisitions or strategic relationships and we may incur acquisition-related charges that could adversely affect our operating results. We regularly explore possible acquisitions and other strategic ventures to expand and enhance our business. We have recently acquired a number of companies. For example, in December 2008 we acquired paybox Solutions AG, a mobile payments solutions provider. In July 2008 we acquired Cable & Wireless’ international inter-operator MMS hubbing service (MMX) and obtained the exclusive rights to market and sell mobile data roaming services. In November 2006 we acquired Mobile 365, Inc. In addition, in October 2005 we acquired Extended Systems Incorporated, a NASDAQ listed company. We expect to continue to pursue acquisitions of complimentary or strategic business product lines, assets and technologies. - 12 - Table of Contents We may not achieve the desired benefits of our acquisitions and investments. Acquisitions may not further our business strategy or we may pay more for acquired companies or assets than they may prove to be worth. Further, such companies may have limited infrastructure and systems of internal controls. In addition, for portions of the first year after acquisition, acquired companies may not be subject to our established system of internal control or subject to internal control testing by internal and external auditors. We may be unable to successfully assimilate an acquired company’s management team, employees, business infrastructure or data centers and related systems, capacity requirements, customer mandated requirements, and third party communication provider relationships or implement and maintain effective internal controls. Our acquisition due diligence may not identify technical, legal, financial, internal control or other problems associated with an acquired entity and our ability to seek indemnification may be limited by the acquisition structure or agreement. Also, dedication of resources to execute acquisitions and handle integration tasks and management changes accompanying acquisitions could divert attention from other important business. Acquisitions may also result in costs, liabilities, additional expenses or internal control weaknesses that could harm our results of operations, financial condition or internal control assessment. In addition, we may not be able to maintain customer, supplier, employee or other favorable business relationships of ours, or of our acquired operations, or be able to terminate or restructure unfavorable relationships, any of which might reduce our revenue or limit the benefits of an acquisition. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 142 we do not amortize goodwill but evaluate goodwill recorded in connection with acquisitions at least annually for impairment. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $527.2 million of goodwill recorded on our balance sheet, none of which was determined to be impaired as of that date. Goodwill impairments are based on the value of our reporting units, and reporting units that previously recognized impairment charges are prone to additional impairment charges if future revenue and expense forecasts or market conditions worsen after an impairment is recognized. We test the impairment of goodwill annually in our fourth fiscal quarter or more frequently if indicators of impairment arise. The timing of the formal annual test may result in charges to our statement of operations in our fourth fiscal quarter that could not have been reasonably foreseen in prior periods. New acquisitions, and any impairment of the value of purchased assets, could have a significant negative impact on our future operating results. Acquisitions may also result in other charges, including stock-based compensation charges for assumed stock awards and restructuring charges. The timing and amount of such charges will be dependent on future acquisition and integration activities. With respect to our investments in other companies, we may not realize a return on our investments, or the value of our investments may decline if the businesses in which we invest are not successful. Future acquisitions may also result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, restructuring charges relating to the consolidation of operations and the creation of other intangible assets that could result in amortization expense or impairment charges, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. The ability to rapidly develop and bring to market advanced products and services that are successful is crucial to maintaining our competitive position. Widespread use of the Internet and growing market demand for mobile and wireless solutions may significantly alter the manner in which business is conducted in the future. In light of these developments, our ability to timely meet the demand for new or enhanced products and services to support wireless and mobile business operations at competitive prices could significantly impact our ability to generate future revenues. If the market for unwired solutions does not continue to develop as we anticipate, if our solutions and services do not successfully compete in the relevant markets, or our new products, either internally developed or resulting from acquisitions, are not widely adopted and successful, our competitive position and our operating results could be adversely affected. - 13 - Table of Contents If our existing customers cancel or fail to renew their technical support agreements, our technical support revenues could be adversely affected. We currently derive a significant portion of our overall revenues from technical support services, which are included in service revenues. The terms of our standard software license arrangements provide for the payment of license fees and prepayment of first-year technical support fees. Support is renewable annually at the option of the end user. We have experienced increasing pricing pressure from customers when purchasing or renewing technical support agreements and the current economic and credit environment may cause further increased pricing pressure from customers. This pressure may result in our reducing support fees or in lost support fees if we refuse to reduce our pricing, either of which could result in reduced revenue. If our existing customers cancel or fail to renew their technical support agreements, or if we are unable to generate additional support fees through the license of new products to existing or new customers, our business and future operating results could be adversely affected. Pricing pressure in the mobile messaging market could adversely affect our operating results. Competition and industry consolidation in the mobile messaging market have resulted in pricing pressure, which we expect to continue in the future. This pricing pressure could cause large reductions in the selling price of our services. For example, consolidation in the wireless services industry could give our customers increased transaction volume leverage in pricing negotiations. Our competitors or our customers’ in-house solutions may also provide services at a lower cost, significantly increasing pricing pressures on us. Pricing pressure may also arise from wireless carriers increasing the cost of access to their services and networks, if we are unable to pass these costs on to our customers. While historically pricing pressure has been largely offset by volume increases and the introduction of new services, in the future we may not be able to offset the effects of any price reductions. Unanticipated delays or accelerations in our sales cycles could result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. The length of our sales cycles varies significantly from product to product. The sales cycle for some of our IPG and iAS products can take up to 18 months to complete. Any delay or unanticipated acceleration in the closing of a large license or a number of smaller licenses could result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. For example, in the second quarter of 2007 we refused to accept certain terms in a large transaction, which delayed the closing of this transaction from the second quarter of 2007 to the third quarter of 2007, but resulted in better terms for us. The length of the sales cycle may vary depending on a number of factors over which we may have little or no control, including the size and complexity of a potential transaction; our customers’ financial condition, liquidity or ability to access credit markets; the level of competition that we encounter in our selling activities; and our potential customers’ internal budgeting process. Our sales cycle can be further extended for product sales made through third party distributors. As a result of the lengthy sales cycle, we may expend significant efforts over a long period of time in an attempt to obtain an order, but ultimately not complete the sale, or the order ultimately received may be smaller than anticipated. Our mobile messaging customer contracts may not continue to generate revenues and margins at or near our historical levels of revenues and margins from these customers and we rely on a limited number of customers for most of our messaging revenue. If our customers decide for any reason not to continue to purchase services from us at current levels or at current prices, to terminate their contracts with us or not to renew their contracts with us, our messaging revenues and margins would decline. Additionally, a limited number of customers provide most of our messaging revenue and if they terminate their contracts with us, do no renew their contracts or renegotiate their contracts in a way that is unfavorable to us, our messaging revenue and/or margin could be adversely impacted. - 14 - Table of Contents If we do not adapt to rapid technological change in the telecommunications industry, we could lose customers or market share. The mobile market is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new service introductions and changing customer demands. Significant technological changes could make our technology and services obsolete. Our success depends in part on our ability to adapt to our rapidly changing market by continually improving the features, functionality, reliability and responsiveness of our existing services and by successfully developing, introducing and marketing new features, services and applications to meet changing customer needs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt to these challenges or respond successfully or in a cost-effective way to adequately meet them. Our failure to do so would impair our ability to compete, retain customers or maintain our financial performance. Our future revenues and profits will depend, in part, on our ability to sell to new market participants. Impairments in our investment portfolio may result in temporary and/or realized losses. As of December 31, 2008 we had an aggregate par value of $28.9 million invested in six auction rate securities (ARS). The underlying collateral of the ARS we hold consists primarily of corporate bonds, commercial paper, debt instruments issued by the U.S. Treasury and governmental agencies, money market funds, asset backed securities, collateralized debt obligations, similar assets, and in one instance, preferred stock in a bond insurance company. Certain of the ARS may have direct or indirect investments in mortgages, mortgage related securities, or credit default swaps. As of December 31, 2008, the other-than-temporary impairment associated with these ARS totaled $13.4 million The credit and capital markets have continued to deteriorate in 2008. If uncertainties in these markets continue, these markets deteriorate further or we experience any additional ratings downgrades on any investments in our portfolio (including on ARS), we may incur additional impairments to our investment portfolio, which could negatively affect our financial condition, cash flow and reported earnings. Restructuring activities and reorganizations in our sales model or business units may not succeed in increasing revenues and operating results. Since 2000, we have implemented several restructuring plans in an effort to align our expense structure to our expected revenue. As a result of these restructuring activities, we have recorded gross restructuring charges totaling approximately $120 million through December 31, 2008. Our ability to significantly reduce our current cost structure in any material respects through future restructurings may be difficult without fundamentally changing elements of our current business. If we are unable to generate increased revenues or control our operating expenses going forward, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Our sales model has evolved significantly during the past few years to keep pace with new and developing markets and changing business environments. If we have overestimated demand for our products and services in our target markets, or if we are unable to coordinate our sales efforts in a focused and efficient way, our business and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. For example, in the second quarter of 2005, our FFI business was integrated into IPG in an effort to better support the FFI product line and promote synergies between FFI and IPG technical resources. In the second quarter of 2006 IPG’s International and North American sales organizations were combined to form Worldwide Field Operations. In January 2009 we integrated the product marketing groups for IPG, iAS and Sybase 365 into our Worldwide Marketing Operations under the leadership of Raj Nathan. At that time we commenced the integration of certain back office functions in order to reduce overlap between business operations. Other organizational changes in our sales or divisional model could have a direct effect on our results of operations depending on whether and how quickly and effectively our employees and management are able to adapt to and maximize the advantages these changes are intended to create. We cannot assure that these or other organizational changes in our sales or divisional model will result in any increase in revenues or profitability, and they could adversely affect our business. - 15 - Table of Contents Our results of operations may depend on the compatibility of our products with other software developed by third parties. Our future results may be affected if our products cannot interoperate and perform well with software products of other companies. Certain leading applications currently are not, and may never be, interoperable with our products. In addition, many of our principal products are designed for use with products offered by competitors. In the future, vendors of non-Sybase products may become less willing to provide us with access to their products, technical information, and marketing and sales support, which could harm our business and prospects. We are subject to risks arising from our international operations. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets in the future. In the fourth quarter of 2008, revenues outside North America represented 52 percent of our total revenues. As a result of our international operations, we are affected by economic, regulatory and political conditions in foreign countries, including changes in IT spending, the imposition of government controls, changes or limitations in trade protection laws, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, natural disasters, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, acts of terrorism, continued unrest and war in the Middle East and other factors, which could have a material impact on our international revenues and operations. Our international operations also require that we comply with, and could have liabilities due to, US laws that may not apply to companies that operate only in the United States, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and export control laws. Our revenues outside North America could also fluctuate due to the relative immaturity of some markets, growth or contraction in other markets, the strength or weakness of local economies, the general volatility of worldwide software markets and organizational changes we have made to accommodate these conditions. We may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. Developing and localizing software is expensive and the investment in product development often involves a long payback cycle. We have and expect to continue making significant investments in software research and development and related product opportunities. Accelerated product introductions and short product life cycles require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. Revenues may not be realized from particular research and development expenditures and revenues which are generated may occur significantly later than when the associated research and development costs were incurred. We might experience significant errors or security flaws in our products and services. Despite testing prior to their release, software products may contain errors or security flaws, particularly when first introduced or when new versions are released. Errors in our software products could affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. If we experience errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products, we could lose revenues. Our customers rely on our products and services for critical parts of their businesses and they may have a greater sensitivity to product errors and security vulnerabilities than customers for software products generally. Software product errors and security flaws in our products or services could expose us to product liability, performance and/or warranty claims as well as harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. The detection and correction of any security flaws can be time consuming and costly. - 16 - Table of Contents We are subject to risks related to the terms of our 1.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes. In February 2005 we issued $460 million in convertible subordinated notes (“notes”) in a private offering to qualified institutional buyers. The notes bear interest at 1.75% and are subordinated to all of our future senior indebtedness. The notes mature in February 2025 unless earlier redeemed by us at our option, or converted or put to us by the holders of the notes. We may redeem all or a portion of the notes at par on and after March 1, 2010. The holders may require that we repurchase notes at par on February 22, 2010, February 22, 2015 and February 22, 2020. Recent changes in applicable accounting rules for convertible notes require interest expense to be imputed at fair value as of the debt issuance date. This will result in increases in previously reported and future interest expense and reductions in our net income in prior and future years. See “Future Operating Results — Changes in accounting and legal standards could adversely affect our future operating results” for a discussion of the impact of changes in GAAP on our accounting for the notes. The holders may convert the notes into the right to receive the conversion value (described below) (i) when our stock price exceeds 130% of the $24.99 per share adjusted conversion price (equal to $32.49 per share) for at least 20 trading days in the period of the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the previous fiscal quarter, (ii) in certain change in control transactions, (iii) if the notes are redeemed by us, (iv) in certain specified corporate transactions, and (v) when the trading price of the notes does not exceed a minimum price level. During the three months ended December 31, 2008, our stock price did not exceed 130% of the $24.99 per share adjusted conversion price for the required specified time. As such, the notes did not become convertible during this period. For each $1,000 principal amount of notes, the conversion value represents the amount equal to 40.02 shares multiplied by the per share price of our common stock at the time of conversion. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000 per $1,000 in principal of notes, we will pay $1,000 in cash and may pay the amount exceeding $1,000 in cash, stock or a combination of cash and stock, at our election. If our stock price exceeds 130% of the $24.99 per share adjusted conversion price for the specified period in any subsequent fiscal quarter or the notes are otherwise convertible under the notes’ terms, and the holders of the notes elect to convert the notes, we will be required to repay up to all of the notes’ $460 million in principal amount in cash and must pay cash, stock or a combination of cash and stock, the amount by which the converted notes exceed the principal amount of the notes. At the time of such conversion we may have insufficient financial resources or may be unable to arrange financing to pay for the conversion value of all notes tendered for conversion. Additionally, if the holders of the notes exercise their right to have us repurchase the notes at par on February 22, 2010, at that time we may have insufficient financial resources or may be unable to arrange financing to pay for par value of all notes tendered for repurchase. The conversion feature of the notes also serves to reduce our diluted net income per share. In periods when our stock price exceeds the notes’ $24.99 per share adjusted conversion price, we must include the shares that may be issued to the holders of the notes in the shares included in our diluted net income per share. The reduction in our diluted earnings per share attributable to shares associated with the conversion of the notes may adversely impact the market price of our common stock Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future financial results. Our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by unanticipated changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, the geographic mix of our revenue, or by changes in tax laws or their interpretation. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. - 17 - Table of Contents We face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. We experience foreign exchange translation exposure on our net assets and transactions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We do not utilize foreign currency hedging contracts to smooth the impact of converting non-U.S. dollar denominated revenues into U.S. dollars for financial reporting. Because we do not anticipate entering into currency hedges for non-U.S. dollar revenues, our future results will fluctuate based on the appreciation or depreciation of the U.S. dollar against major foreign currencies. Due to the significance of our business conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, even though we take into account changes in exchange rates over time in our pricing strategy. Recently, in connection with disruptions in the worldwide credit markets, the U.S. dollar rapidly strengthened against certain currencies, including the Euro and British Pound. Continued rapid fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may materially and adversely affect our operating results. As of December 31, 2008, we had identified net assets totaling $268.9 million associated with our EMEA operations, and $51.6 million associated with our Asia Pacific and Latin America operations. Accordingly, we may experience fluctuations in operating results as a result of translation gains and losses associated with these asset and liability values. In order to reduce the effect of foreign currency fluctuations on our and certain of our subsidiaries’ balance sheets, we utilize foreign currency forward exchange contracts (forward contracts) to hedge certain foreign currency transaction exposures. Specifically, we enter into forward contracts with a maturity of approximately 30 days to hedge against the foreign exchange exposure created by certain balances that are denominated in a currency other than the principal reporting currency of the entity recording the transaction. The gains and losses on the forward contracts are intended to mitigate the gains and losses on these outstanding foreign currency transactions and we do not enter into forward contracts for trading purposes. However, our efforts to manage these risks may not be successful. Failure to adequately manage our currency exchange rate exposure could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Growing market acceptance of “open source” software could cause a decline in our revenues and operating margins. Growing market acceptance of open source software has presented both benefits and challenges to the commercial software industry in recent years. “Open source” software is made widely available by its authors and is licensed “as is” without charge for the license itself (there may be a charge for related services or rights). We have developed certain products to operate on the Linux platform, which has created additional sources of revenues. Additionally, we have incorporated other types of open source software into our products, allowing us to enhance certain solutions without incurring substantial additional research and development costs. Thus far, we have encountered no unanticipated material problems arising from our use of open source software. However, as the use of open source software becomes more widespread, certain open source technology could become competitive with our proprietary technology, which could cause sales of our products to decline or force us to reduce the fees we charge for our products, which could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and operating margins. Insufficient protection for our intellectual property rights may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or our ability to compete. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights in the United States and in selected foreign countries through a combination of reliance on intellectual property laws (including copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws) and registrations of selected patent, trademark and copyright rights in selected jurisdictions, as well as licensing and other agreements preventing the unauthorized disclosure and use of our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that these protections will be adequate to prevent third parties from copying or reverse engineering our products, from engaging in other unauthorized use of our technology, or from independently developing and marketing products or services that are substantially equivalent to or superior to our own. Moreover, third parties may be able to successfully challenge, - 18 - Table of Contents oppose, invalidate or circumvent our patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secret rights. We may elect or be unable to obtain or maintain certain protections for certain of our intellectual property in certain jurisdictions, and our intellectual property rights may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the United States because of the differences in foreign laws concerning intellectual property rights. Lack of protection of certain intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, monitoring and protecting our intellectual property rights is difficult and costly. From time to time, we may be required to initiate litigation or other action to enforce our intellectual property rights or to establish their validity. As an example, Sybase filed a complaint against Vertica Systems, Inc., on January 30, 2008 in the Eastern District of Texas, alleging infringement of Sybase’s patent #5,794,229 (“Database System with Methodology for Storing a Database Table by Vertically Partitioning All Columns of the Table”). Such action could result in substantial cost and diversion of resources and management attention and we cannot assure you that any such action will be successful. If third parties claim that we are in violation of their intellectual property rights, it could have a negative impact on our results of operations or ability to compete. Patent litigation involving software and telecom companies has increased significantly in recent years as the number of software and telecom patents has increased and as the number of patent holding companies has increased. We face the risk of claims that products or services that we provide have infringed the intellectual property rights of third parties. We are currently litigating with different parties regarding claims that our products or services violate their patents, we have in the past received similar claims and it is likely that such claims will be asserted in the future. See Note Twelve to Consolidated Financial Statements, Part II, Item 8, for a discussion of our patent litigation with Telecommunications Systems, Inc. In May 2005, we received a claim from TeliaSonera alleging that iAnywhere’s product now known as Answers Anywhere Mobile Edition infringes a TeliaSonera patent issued in Finland. We are currently involved in litigation in Finland regarding the ownership of the patent. No trial date has been set. Additionally, in February 2006, two Financial Fusion product customers received claims from a patent licensing company, Ablaise, Ltd., alleging that the customers’ websites are infringing (although Ablaise later withdrew that charge as to one of the two). Financial Fusion filed a declaratory judgment action against Ablaise in the Northern District of California which is ongoing. The customers’ websites are or were based in part on our products and the customers tendered defense of the claims to us under their contractual indemnification provisions. In August 2007 Sybase (along with 20 other defendants, including Microsoft and IBM) was sued by JuxtaComm Technologies, a Canadian company, for infringement of its US patent 6,195,662 (“System for Transforming and Exchanging Data Between Distributed Heterogeneous Computer Systems”) and the matter is ongoing. In November 2008, we were sued by Data Retrieval LLC, along with co-defendant Informatica Corporation, for alleged infringement of U.S. Patents number 6,026,392 and 6,631,382, both entitled “Data Retrieval Method and Apparatus with Multiple Source Capability.” We are in the process of assessing the claims and potential defenses for the matter raised by Data Retrieval. We believe that our positions in each of the matters noted above are meritorious and we intend to pursue our positions vigorously. In addition, Sybase from time to time receives indemnity demands from customers involved in litigation. Regardless of whether patent or other intellectual property claims have merit, they can be time consuming and expensive to defend or settle, and can harm our business and reputation. In particular, such claims may cause us to redesign our products or services, if feasible, or cause us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use the necessary intellectual property. Patent claimants may seek to obtain injunctions or other permanent or temporary remedies that prevent us from offering our products or services, and such injunctions could be granted by a court before the final resolution of the merits of a claim. Our competitors in both the U.S. and foreign countries, many of which have substantially greater resources than we have and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our products and services. We have not conducted an independent review of patents issued to third parties. The large - 19 - Table of Contents number of patents, the rapid rate of new patent issuances, the complexities of the technology involved and uncertainty of results and expense of potential litigation increase the risk of business assets and management’s attention being diverted to patent issues. Laws and regulations affecting our customers and us and future laws and regulations to which they or we may become subject may harm our business. When Sybase 365 delivers mobile messages on behalf of content owners into our network of wireless carriers, we are subject to legal, regulatory and wireless carrier requirements governing, among other things, the nature of content delivered, as well as necessary notice and disclosure to, and consent from, consumers receiving mobile messages. Even though we don’t create or control the content delivered over our network, if we are unable to effectively prevent or detect violations of legal, regulatory or wireless carrier requirements, or otherwise unable to mitigate the effect of these violations, we may be subject to fines or the suspension or termination of some or all of our wireless carrier connections or telecommunications licenses in one or more territories which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operation. Such suspension or termination may also result in loss of current and potential customers and expose us to potential customer liability. Also, we cannot predict when, or upon what terms and conditions, future regulation might occur or the effect regulation may have on our business or our markets. Our key personnel are critical to our business, and we cannot assure that they will remain with us. Our success depends on the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel. In recent years, we have made additions and changes to our executive management team. For example, in connection with our acquisition of Mobile 365, Marty Beard was appointed to be the President of Sybase 365 in November 2006. In January 2007, Raj Nathan, formerly the head of IPG was named our Chief Marketing Officer, Billy Ho was promoted to head IPG’s technology operations and Mark Westover was promoted to head Corporate Development. In November 2007, Pieter Van der Vorst, formerly our Chief Financial Officer relocated to London to be our Senior Vice President and General Manager for the EMEA region and Jeff Ross, formerly our Corporate Controller became our Chief Financial Officer. Additionally, Keith Jensen, formerly our senior director became our Corporate Controller at that time. Further changes involving executives and managers resulting from acquisitions, mergers and other events could increase the current rate of employee turnover, particularly in consulting, engineering and sales. We cannot be certain that we will retain our officers and key employees. In particular, if we are unable to hire and retain qualified technical, managerial, sales, finance and other employees it could adversely affect our product development and sales efforts, other aspects of our operations, and our financial results. Competition for highly skilled personnel in the software industry is intense. Our financial and stock price performance relative to the companies with whom we compete for employees, and the high cost of living in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters is located, could also impact the degree of future employee turnover. Our sales to government clients subject us to risks including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. We derive revenues from contracts with the United States government, state and local governments and their respective agencies, which may terminate most of these contracts at any time, without cause. Federal Government contracts may be affected by political pressure to reduce government spending. Our federal government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations being made by the United States Congress to fund the expenditures under these contracts. Similarly, our contracts at the state and local levels are subject to government funding authorizations. Additionally, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations which could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. - 20 - Table of Contents Changes in accounting and legal standards could adversely affect our future operating results. During the past several years, various accounting guidance has been issued with respect to revenue recognition rules in the software industry. However, much of this guidance addresses software revenue recognition primarily from a conceptual level, and is silent as to specific implementation requirements. As a consequence, we have been required to make assumptions and judgments, in certain circumstances, regarding application of the rules to transactions not addressed by the existing rules. We believe our current business arrangements and contract terms have been properly reported under the current rules. However, if final interpretations of, or changes to, these rules necessitate a change in our current revenue recognition practices, our results of operations, financial condition and business could be materially and adversely affected. In May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued FSP No. APB 14-1, “Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments that May be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)” (FSP APB 14-1). FSP APB 14-1 requires issuers of convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion (including partial cash settlement) to separately account for the liability and equity (conversion feature) components of the instruments and became effective January 1, 2009. Retrospective adoption is required. As a result, interest expense should be retrospectively imputed and recognized based upon the issuer’s nonconvertible debt borrowing rate, which retrospectively will result in lower net income. Our 1 3/4% convertible subordinated notes (“Notes”) due 2025 issued in February 2005 are subject to FSP APB 14-1. Prior to FSP APB 14-1, Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 14, “Accounting for Convertible Debt and Debt Issued with Stock Purchase Warrants” (APB 14), provided that no portion of the proceeds from the issuance of the instruments should be attributable to the conversion feature. Upon adoption of FSP APB 14-1 in 2009, we will record a debt discount, which will be amortized to interest expense through February 22, 2010, representing the first date on which holders of the Notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes. In addition, we will retrospectively record a non cash increase in interest expense for 2007 and 2008 of $16.8 million and $17.8 million, respectively. This will result in a retrospective noncash after tax reduction in diluted earnings per common share of approximately $0.10 and $0.12 in 2007 and 2008, respectively. In addition, the carrying amount of the Notes will be retrospectively adjusted to reflect a discount of $85.0 million on the date of issuance, with an offsetting increase in additional paid-in capital of $51.0 million and deferred tax liability of $34.0 million. The Notes are our only instrument which fall under FSP APB 14-1. FSP APB 14-1 will be applied to our Notes from their issuance date, and the cumulative effect of such application will be captured with an adjustment to our opening 2007 retained earnings balance. The cumulative effect of this change will total approximately $16.5 million on periods prior to 2007. In 2009 interest expense will increase approximately $18.9 million due to this change. In 2009 after tax diluted earnings per common share will be reduced correspondingly by $0.13. If future interpretations of, or changes to, the FSP APB 14-1 rules necessitate a further change in these reporting practices, our previously reported and future results of operations could be adversely affected. In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“FAS”) No. 141 (Revised 2007), “Business Combinations” (“FAS 141(R)”). FAS 141(R) establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer in a business combination recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interests in the acquiree, as well as the goodwill acquired. Significant changes from current practice resulting from FAS 141(R) include the expansion of the definitions of a “business” and a “business combination.” For all business combinations (whether partial, full or step acquisitions), the acquirer will record 100% of all assets and liabilities of the acquired business, including goodwill, generally at their fair values; contingent consideration will be recognized at its fair value on the acquisition date and, for certain arrangements, changes in fair value will be recognized in earnings until settlement; and acquisition-related transaction and restructuring costs will be expensed rather than treated as part of the cost of the acquisition. FAS 141(R) also establishes disclosure requirements to enable users to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. FAS - 21 - Table of Contents 141(R) applies prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. Earlier adoption is not permitted. In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes: An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, or FIN No. 48. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition and measurement threshold for a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. We adopted FIN No. 48 on January 1, 2007. In addition to the changes discussed above, the U.S. Congress enacted the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in July 2002, providing for or mandating the implementation of extensive corporate governance reforms relating to public company financial reporting, internal controls, corporate ethics, and oversight of the accounting profession, among other areas. We are also subject to additional rules and regulations, including those enacted by the New York Stock Exchange where our common stock is traded. Compliance with existing or new rules that influence significant adjustments to our business practices and procedures could result in significant expense and may adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to comply with these rules could result in delayed financial statements and might adversely impact the price of our common stock. The unfavorable outcome of litigation and other claims against us could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits from time to time, some of which arise in the ordinary course of our business. Adverse outcomes in some or all of such pending cases may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us. While management currently believes that resolution of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations, the ultimate outcome of litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties, and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. It is possible that our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected in any period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. Our operations and financial results could be severely harmed by certain natural disasters. Our headquarters, some of our offices, and some of our major customers’ facilities are located near major earthquake faults. We have not been able to maintain earthquake insurance coverage at reasonable costs. Instead, we rely on self-insurance and preventative safety measures. We currently ship most of our products that are delivered in physical and not electronic form from our Dublin, California corporate headquarters. If a major earthquake or other natural disaster occurs, disruption of operations at that facility could directly harm our ability to record revenues for such quarter. This could, in turn, have an adverse impact on operating results. Provisions of our corporate documents have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, stockholder rights plan and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include authorizing the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval, prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, prohibiting the stockholders from calling stockholders meetings and prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent. ITEM 1 (B): UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. - 22 - Table of Contents 