ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may effect our financial results, our accounting, and the accuracy of the forward looking statements we make in this Form 10-K. We make statements regarding anticipated product introductions and performance, changes in markets, customers and customer order rates, expenditures in research and development, growth in revenue and improvement in profits, taxation levels, the effects of pricing, and competition, all of which represent our expectations and beliefs about future events. Our actual results may vary from these expectations because of a number of factors that affect our business, the most important of which include the following: • Our business has been and may continue to be significantly impacted by the worldwide recession, and the current uncertainty in the outlook for the global economy makes it more likely that our actual results will differ materially from expectations. In 2009, the world economy experienced the worst economic recession since the great depression of the 1930’s. The severe economic conditions were brought about by extreme disruptions in global credit and financial markets including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. Although the world economy is starting to show signs of a tentative recovery, there can be no assurance as to the length and strength of the recovery, that it will continue or that the economy will not slide back into another period of recession. These economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. Any tightening of credit in financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders with us. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. The original equipment manufacturers to which we sell our sensors supply SMT manufacturers, and those manufacturers, as well as the circuit board manufacturers that purchase our SMT systems products directly, are largely dependent on continued demand for consumer and commercial electronics, including cell phones, smart phones and computers. Demand for electronics is a function of the health of the economies in the United States and around the world and as these economies have moved into a recession, the demand for overall electronics has been adversely affected and therefore, demand for our products and our operating results has been adversely affected. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic disruption or subsequent economic recovery, worldwide, in the United States, in our industry, or in the electronics market. These and other economic factors have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. • Sales to our two largest customers have historically constituted a significant portion of our revenue and loss of either of these customers, or a decline in the customer’s business, would have a materially adverse impact on our results of operation. Sales to our two largest customers constituted 24% of our total revenue in 2009 and 36% of our total revenue in 2008. Although we believe our relationship with these customers are good and we continue to pursue joint development projects with them, like most suppliers to the electronics manufacturing markets, their businesses have been impacted by the global economic downturn. One of these customers had tentatively determined to develop its own sensor technology, but has since reconsidered. If the order rates of these customers do not return to their historical levels or if they are unsuccessful in selling the products into which our sensors are incorporated, or if they design their products to function without our sensors, purchase sensors from other suppliers, or otherwise terminate their relationship with us, our long-term results of operations would be significantly adversely affected. • The move of stand alone systems product development and manufacturing operations to Singapore could prove costly or result in reduced control and efficiency of systems operations. Our move to Singapore presents a number of risks related to the retention of personnel, management of development and manufacturing, control over administrative, manufacturing and business processes, regulatory and legal issues we may encounter and other matters relating to foreign operations. We cannot be certain that we will be able to retain software development personnel in Singapore of the caliber required for our products, we will be able to retain management on whom we can rely, or that these personnel, or manufacturing personnel, can be retained at attractive rates. Although we anticipate that components for our systems products may be more readily available there, we cannot be certain that we will be able to import the hardware components used in our systems products necessary for manufacture in Singapore at efficient rates. Our future financial performance, ability to serve our customers and manufacture products could be negatively impacted if we are unable to retain our Singapore based employees, or if it costs more than expected to retain these employees or hire experienced employees in a timely manner, or if we are unable to locate suitable sources of supply for our products manufactured in Asia. 14 Table of Contents • The market for capital equipment for the electronics industry in which we operate is cyclical and we cannot predict with precision when market downturns will occur. We operate in a very cyclical market–the electronics capital equipment market-that periodically adjusts independent of global economic conditions. We have been unable to predict with accuracy the timing or magnitude of periodic downturns in this market. These downturns, particularly the severe downturns in electronics production markets from 2001 through 2003, and the current downturn from 2008 through 2009, have severely affected our operations and generated several years of unprofitable operations. Although we are starting to see signs of recovery in our markets, we often have difficulty determining the duration or severity of any downturn in our markets, the strength of subsequent recovery and the long-term impact that it may have on our business. • World events beyond our control may effect our operations. Our operations and markets could be negatively affected by world events that effect economies and commerce in countries, such as China, Singapore and Japan, in which we do business. Natural disasters, such as the SARS outbreak, have affected travel patterns and accessibility in these countries in the past and other natural occurrences, such as a bird flu outbreak, could affect the business we do in these countries in the future. Further, these countries may be affected by economic forces that are different from the forces that affect the United States and change the amount of business we conduct. • We are dependent upon a single product line in our systems business for approximately a quarter of our revenue. During 2009, approximately 30% of our total revenue was generated by sales of stand alone SE 300 Ultra and SE500 SMT solder paste inspection systems. Sales of these products have been subject to increasing competition in world markets, particularly in Asia, negatively impacting our market share and sales prices for our products. If we are not successful in continuing to sell and differentiate this product line relative to our competition, our results of operations would be negatively affected. • We generate more than three quarters of our revenue (approximately 78% in 2009) from export sales that are subject to risks of international operations. Our export sales are subject to many of the risks of international operations including: • currency controls and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • changes in local market business requirements and increased cost and development time required to modify and translate our products for local markets; • inability to recruit qualified personnel in a specific country or region; • difficulty in establishing and maintaining relationships with local vendors; • differing foreign technical standards; • differing regulatory requirements; • export restrictions and controls, tariffs and other trade barriers; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights; • changes in political and economic conditions; • seasonal reductions in business activity; • potentially adverse tax assessments; and • terrorism, disease, or other events that may affect local economies and access. • Because we price our products in US dollars, our products may have difficulty competing in periods of increasing strength of the dollar. Virtually all of our international export sales are negotiated, invoiced and paid in U.S. dollars, and accordingly, currency fluctuations do not affect our revenue and income per unit. However, significant fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies could have an impact on the price competitiveness of our products relative to foreign competitors, which could impact the willingness of customers to purchase our products and have an impact on our results of operations. • Our products could become obsolete. Our current products, as well as the products we have under development, are designed to operate with the technology we believe currently exists or may exist for electronic components, printed circuit boards and memory modules. The technology for these components changes rapidly and, because it takes considerable time to develop new products, we must anticipate technological developments in order to effectively compete. Further, because we do not have unlimited development resources, we might choose to forgo the pursuit of what becomes a leading technology and devote our resources to technology that is less successful. If we incorrectly anticipate technology developments, or have inadequate resources to develop our products to deal with changes in technology, our products could become obsolete. 15 Table of Contents • We compete in the electronics assembly alignment sensor market with larger companies. Our electronic assembly alignment sensor products compete with products made by larger machine vision companies, other optical sensor companies, and by solutions internally developed by our customers. Advances in machine vision technology in recent years have eliminated some, but not all, of the features that have differentiated our products from some of these competitors. • The market for surface mount capital equipment has become very price competitive. The electronics capital equipment market for surface mount technologies is becoming more mature, resulting in increased price pressure on suppliers of equipment. Consequently, our electronic assembly stand alone system and alignment sensor products have become subject to increased levels of price competition and competition from other suppliers and technologies, including suppliers in Asia who have specifically designed their products to compete favorably against our products. • Our stand alone system products carry lower margins. We use a different distribution network to sell our stand alone end-user systems products, and generate lower margins from these products, than the distribution system and margins from our electronic assembly alignment sensors and semiconductor products. Our profit margins may be negatively affected to the extent our stand alone end-user systems products constitute a larger portion of our business. • We are exposed to credit risk through sales to our OEM customers and distributors of our stand alone system products. We sell our products through three key OEM customers, and usually have significant credit exposure with respect to two of these customers. In addition, we sell our stand alone inspection systems products through a network of international distributors. These distributors tend to be smaller in size with limited financial resources and access to capital. Although these distributors do not hold our products in inventory for re-sale, we are exposed to credit risk and would incur losses if they are unable to pay for the products they have purchased from us. • Competitors in Asia may be able to compete favorably with us based on lower production and employee costs. We compete with large multinational systems companies in sales of stand alone end-user systems products, many of which are able to take advantage of greater financial resources and larger sales distribution networks. We also compete with new Asian based suppliers of stand alone end-user systems products, many of which may have lower overall production and employee costs and are willing to offer their products at lower selling prices to customers. • We are dependent upon outside suppliers for components of our products, and delays in or unavailability of those components would adversely affect our results. We use outside contractors to manufacture the components used in many of our products and some of the components we order require significant lead times that could affect our ability to sell our products if not available. In addition, if these components do not meet stringent quality requirements or become subject to obsolescence, there could be delays in product availability, and we could be required to make significant investments in designing replacement components. • We have experienced significant management turnover in the past twelve months and our results of operation could be materially adversely impacted by the loss of other management personnel. Both our Vice President of Operations and our Vice President and General Manager of Systems Operations resigned effective in May 2009 and our Chairman and Chief Technology Officer died in a plane crash in June 2009. Although we believe that our current management personnel have compensated well, the loss of additional management personnel and the loss of continuity in experience with our operations that would result could be very disruptive to our operations. • Much of our growth is dependent upon the commercial success of products we have recently, or will shortly, introduce. We plan to commence commercial sale of several new products during 2010 on which we have completed development or are currently nearing completion of development, including the QX500 automated optical inspection (AOI) systems, additional stand alone solder paste and AOI systems, our Embedded Process Verification (EPV®) system for Juki, our new solution for DEK offering 100% 2D solder paste inspection, and a new solar wafer alignment camera. We have not generated revenue from these products, and the first sale of these and other new products could be delayed by economic conditions affecting our customers, enhancements required by our OEM or end user customers, or technology issues encountered during final testing. Further, we have no assurances that these new products will generate substantial commercial sales. 16 Table of Contents • Our growth has been dependent on technical innovation, some of which was generated by our founder, and our growth could be impacted if we are unable to innovate in the future. Although our results are cyclical, our longer-term growth has been in the past, and we anticipate will be in the future, dependent upon our ability to introduce new and innovative products. Many of our product innovations were generated by our founder, Dr. Steven K. Case, who died this past summer. Although we have devoted and continue to devote significant resources to research and development to support this innovation and believe we have talented scientists who have and will continue significant new inventions, if we fail to create significant new product innovations, our market position would be negatively impacted. • The absence of significant market liquidity in our common stock could impact the ability of our shareholders to purchase and sell larger blocks, the attractiveness of our stock to institutional shareholders, and the market value of our common stock. There were 6,845,391 shares of our common stock outstanding as of February 28, 2010. Although our common stock is traded in the NASDAQ Global Market, in part because of the number of shares we have outstanding and available for trading, the daily trading volume in our stock is low, averaging only approximately 9,000 shares per day during the first two months of 2010. Shareholders wishing to purchase or sell larger blocks of stock may not be able to do so quickly, and disposal by any shareholder of a significant block of stock could adversely affect the sale price in the marketplace. Further, institutional investors often have policies against investment in stock that is illiquid, and many institutional investors may elect not to purchase or hold our stock because of the inability to dispose of it. The reduced institutional interest, as well as the lack of current evaluations by securities analysts, has had and can be expected to continue to have a further adverse impact on the market price and liquidity of our common stock. ITEM 