Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below which we believe are significant but not the only ones we face. Any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. You should also refer to the other information contained in this report, including our financial statements and the related notes. The nutritional products industry is extremely competitive. Many of our significant competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, and one or more of these competitors could use their greater resources to gain market share at our expense. The nutritional products market includes international, national, regional and local producers and distributors, many of whom have substantially greater production, financial, research and development, personnel and marketing resources than we do, and many of whom offer a greater variety of products. As a result, each of these companies could compete more aggressively and sustain that competition over a longer period of time than we could. Our lack of resources relative to our significant competitors may cause us to fail to anticipate or respond adequately to development of new products and changing consumer demands and preferences, or may cause us to experience significant delays in obtaining or introducing new or enhanced products. These failures or delays could reduce our competitiveness and 10 Table of Contents cause a decline in our market share and sales. Increased competition in our industry could result in price reductions, reduced gross profit margin or loss of market share, any of which could have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend heavily on the unique abilities and knowledge of our officers and key personnel. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Scientific Officer have knowledge and experience critical to the ongoing operations of the Company. We also depend on the unique knowledge of our Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Finance and Administration, Vice President of Operations and Vice President of Sales and Marketing. Cyanotech is a small company and the loss of any such personnel or the delay in the replacement of one could significantly delay the achievement of our business objectives and could adversely affect our ability to do business or could hinder our ability to provide needed management. Our success depends, to a significant extent, upon the services of such personnel. For example, the Chief Executive Officer has industry knowledge, experience and operating discipline vital to the management of the Company and consistent delivery of our products. The Chief Scientific Officer and founder of the Company is the Company's primary scientific resource, continuing to improve production and cultivation technology and to investigate new microalgal products. Our Chief Financial Officer has a unique understanding of the company's financial systems and needs. Our Vice President Operations has years of experience with the mechanical operation of the production facility and continues to improve our production process. Our Vice President Sales and Marketing has developed valuable personal relationships with domestic and foreign customers. Our production of algae involves an agricultural process, subject to such risks as weather, disease, and contamination. The production of our algae products involves complex agricultural systems with inherent risks including weather, disease, and contamination. These risks are unpredictable and also include such elements as the control and balance of necessary nutrients and other factors. The efficient and effective cultivation of microalgae requires consistent light, warm temperatures, low rainfall and proper chemical balance in a very nutrient-rich environment. If the chemical composition of a pond changes from its required balance, unusually high levels of contamination due to the growth of unwanted organisms or other biological problems may occur. These often arise without warning and sometimes there are few or no clear indicators as to appropriate remediation or corrective measures. We believe that our technology, systems, processes and favorable growing location generally permit year-round harvest of our microalgal products in a cost-effective manner. However, environmental factors cannot be controlled in an open air environment, therefore, we cannot, and do not attempt to, provide any form of assurance with regard to our systems, processes, location, or cost-effectiveness. There is risk in operating entirely in one business segment such as the cultivation and production of microalgae at a single production facility. Single location agricultural and production facilities do not provide the protections and assurances afforded by operations in two or more widely separated locations. Our single location in Hawaii is susceptible to increased energy and transportation costs, and energy and transportation disruptions with either limited alternatives or no alternatives. The Company's most significant operating expenditures are for electricity, related water pumping and nutrient and supply costs. These costs are directly or substantially affected by the price of fuel oil since Hawaii has virtually no hydroelectric power resources and only limited alternative electrical energy resources. Also, a single agricultural facility provides limited biologic diversity protection against invasive, mutant, or harmful organisms. 11 Table of Contents Our operations are vulnerable because we have limited personnel and redundancy and backup systems in our data management function. Our internal order, inventory and product data management system is an electronic system through which orders are placed for our products and through which we manage product pricing, shipment, returns and other matters. This system's continued and uninterrupted performance is critical to our day-to-day business operations. Despite our precautions, unanticipated interruptions in our computer and telecommunications systems have, in the past, caused problems or stoppages in this electronic system. These interruptions, and resulting problems, could occur again in the future. We also have limited personnel available to process purchase orders and to manage product pricing and other matters in any manner other than through this electronic system. Any significant interruption or delay in the operation of this electronic management system could cause a decline in our sales and profitability. A Significant or Prolonged Economic Downturn Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations Our results of operations are affected by the business activity of our customers who in turn are affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. A decline in the level of business activity of our clients or the economy as a whole could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profit margin. The global cost of oil derived energy impacts Cyanotech in several ways, and it may hinder our efforts to achieve profitability. Oil prices primarily impact Cyanotech through the costs of electricity, transportation, materials and supplies which are tied to the cost of oil either directly or indirectly. The return of last years high cost of oil on a global basis may signal a prolonged economic downturn resulting in a material adverse effect on our business. Our Quarterly Operating Results May Vary From Quarter to Quarter, Which May Result in Increased Volatility of Our Share Price We have experienced, and may in the future continue to experience, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. These fluctuations could reduce the market price of our Common Stock. Factors that may cause our quarterly operating results to vary include, but are not limited to: •business decisions of our customers regarding orders for our products; •increased energy costs; •increased raw material costs; •production problems which we cannot solve technically or economically; •weather-related cultivation difficulties; •contamination of our cultivation and production facilities; •effects of weather on customer demand patterns; •the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; •changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; •changes in seasonal and other trends in our customers' buying patterns; •changes in government regulation, both domestic and foreign; •fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates, although our exposure is currently not material; •global economic and political conditions and related risks, including acts of terrorism; and 12 Table of Contents •other factors beyond our control. A significant portion of our expense levels are relatively fixed, and the timing of increases in expense levels is based in large part on our forecasts of future sales. If net sales are below expectations in any given period, the adverse impact on results of operations may be magnified by our inability to adjust expenses quickly enough to compensate for the sales shortfall. Our Global Operations Expose Us to Complex Management, Foreign Currency, Legal, Tax and Economic Risks, Which We May Not Be Able to Address Quickly and Adequately Our products are marketed in a number of countries around the world. For the year ended March 31, 2009, approximately 47% of our net sales were from sales to foreign customers. As a result, we are subject to a number of risks which include, but are not limited to: •the burden of complying with a wide variety of national and local laws; •potentially longer payment cycles for foreign sales; •restrictions (government and otherwise) on the movement of cash; •the absence in some jurisdictions of effective laws protecting our intellectual property rights; •changes in government regulations, both domestic and foreign; •global economic and political conditions and related risks, including acts of terrorism; and •fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, although our exposure is currently not material. If We Are Unable to Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights or if We Infringe Upon the Intellectual Property Rights of Others Our Business May Be Harmed Cyanotech has received five United States patents: two on aspects of our production methods and three for use of our BioAstin® products. Although we regard our proprietary technology, trade secrets, trademarks and similar intellectual property as important, we rely on a combination of trade secret, contract, patent, copyright and trademark law to establish and protect our rights in our products and technology. There can be no assurance that we will be able to protect our technology adequately or that competitors will not be able to develop similar technology independently. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect the Company's intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Litigation in the United States or abroad may be necessary to enforce our patent or other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement. Such litigation, even if successful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, if any such claims are asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license under the third party's intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance, however, that a license would be available on terms acceptable or favorable to us, if at all. Insurance Liability Coverage is Limited In the ordinary course of business, the Company purchases insurance coverage (e.g., property and liability coverage) to protect itself against loss of or damage to its properties and claims made by third parties and employees for property damage or personal injuries. However, the protection provided by such insurance is limited in significant respects and, in some instances, the Company has no coverage and certain of the Company's insurance has substantial "deductibles" or has limits on the maximum amounts that may be recovered. For example, if a hurricane or other uninsured catastrophic natural disaster should occur, the Company may not be able to recover all facility restoration costs and revenues lost from business interruption. In addition, the Company maintains product liability insurance in limited amounts for all of 13 Table of Contents its products involving human consumption; however, broader product liability coverage is prohibitively expensive. Insurers have also introduced new exclusions or limitations of coverage for claims related to certain perils including, but not limited to, mold and terrorism. If a series of losses occurred, such as from a series of lawsuits in the ordinary course of business each of which were subject to the deductible amount, or if the maximum limit of the available insurance were substantially exceeded, the Company could incur losses in amounts that would have a material adverse effect on its result of operations and financial condition. Our Ability to Develop and Market New Products or Modify Existing Products and Production Methods May be Adversely Affected If We Lose the Services of or Cannot Replace Certain Employees Knowledgeable in Advanced Scientific and Other Fields The Company's products are derived from and depend on proprietary and non-proprietary processes and methods founded on advanced scientific knowledge, skills, and expertise. If the services of employees knowledgeable in these fields are lost and cannot be replaced in a reasonable time frame at reasonable costs, the Company's ability to develop and market new products or modify existing products and production methods would be adversely impacted. At the same time, regulatory compliance surrounding the Company's products and financial matters generally requires minimum levels of knowledge and expertise related to production, quality assurance, and financial control. If the Company loses the services or cannot reasonably replace employees who have the necessary knowledge and expertise the Company's ability to remain in regulatory compliance could be adversely affected. We May Need to Raise Additional Capital in the Future Which May Not Be Available At March 31, 2009, our working capital was $3,892,000. Cash and cash equivalents at the same date totaled $977,000. Our cash requirements will depend on numerous factors, including demand for products; normal requirements to maintain and upgrade facilities and equipment, whether opportunities emerge in either new markets or in research and development activities, or in the event we need to expand or contract our production or distribution infrastructure. On February 19, 2008 Cyanotech Corporation entered into an additional Senior Debt direct financial obligation term loan (the "Term Loan A") with Bridgeview Capital Solutions, LLC ("Bridgeview") under the provisions of a United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development (RD) Guarantee program. Term Loan proceeds, remaining after deducting closing costs, statutory fees, and other customary borrowing costs, will be used for working capital purposes. The full amount of the obligation assumed February 19, 2008 was $1,078,000, payable in monthly installments to Bridgeview. The obligation fully amortizes over seven (7) years at an interest rate of Prime Rate plus one percent (1%) per annum, initially an effective rate of seven percent (7%) per annum, adjustable on the first day of each calendar quarter for the term of the obligation. Repayment may be accelerated under specified conditions of default if the Company is not able to remedy such default within the terms and conditions of the Loan. The Term Loan is fully secured by all of the assets of Cyanotech. Also, because the Loan is under a USDA Rural Development Guarantee program, Bridgeview has certain rights of recourse to the Rural Development Guaranty program to recover up to eighty percent (80%) of Bridgeview loss on the Term Loan. The Term Loan contains certain restrictive covenants requiring the consent of Bridgeview prior to taking action. The obligation is similar to and in addition to Cyanotech Corporation's previously reported Senior Debt obligation payable to Bridgeview under the USDA Rural Development Guarantee program originally incurred April 21, 2000. The amount of such previously reported Senior Debt at March 31, 2009, was $551,000 plus accrued interest of $2,021. As of March 31, 2009, Cyanotech Corporation's combined obligations to Bridgeview Capital Solutions, LLC under the USDA Rural Development Guarantee program total approximately $1,501,000 plus accrued interest of $5,500. We believe our cash and cash equivalents to be provided from operations will be sufficient to meet our capital and operating requirements for at least the next 12 months, but we may need to raise additional 14 Table of Contents funds and we may not be able to secure funding on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our then current stockholders may be reduced. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of convertible debt securities, or through additional debt or similar instruments, such securities, debt, or similar instruments could have rights senior to those of our common stockholders and such instruments could contain provisions restricting our operations. If adequate funds are not available to satisfy either short-term or long-term capital requirements, we may be required to limit operations with adverse results. We have incurred significant losses in the past. If we incur significant losses in the future, we will experience negative cash flow which may hamper current operations and prevent us from sustaining or expanding our business. We have incurred net losses in three of the last five fiscal years. As of March 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $19.9 million. Net income for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 was $1,142,000. During fiscal years 2008 and 2007, we incurred net losses in the amounts of approximately: $1.1 million and $7.4 million, of which $4.5 million was due to a non-cash impairment loss on equipment and leasehold improvements, respectively. These account for approximately 43% of our accumulated deficit since our inception. Historically, we have relied upon cash from operations and financing activities to fund all of the cash requirements of our business. However, extended periods of net income do not assure positive cash flows. Future periods of net losses from operations could result in negative cash flow, and may hamper ongoing operations and prevent us from sustaining or expanding our business. We cannot assure you that we will sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If we do not achieve, sustain or increase profitability, our business will be adversely affected and our stock price may decline. The global cost of oil derived energy impacts Cyanotech in several ways, and it may hinder our efforts to achieve profitability. Oil prices primarily impact Cyanotech through the costs of electricity, transportation, materials and supplies which are tied to the cost of oil either directly or indirectly. Our stock price is volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. During the first two months of fiscal 2010, the high and low closing bid prices of a share of our common stock were $2.10 and $1.88, respectively. During fiscal 2009, the high and low closing bid prices of a share of our common stock were $2.12 and $1.12, respectively. During fiscal 2008, the high and low closing bid prices of a share of our common stock were $1.90 and $0.79, respectively. During fiscal 2007, the high and low closing bid prices of a share of our common stock were $3.40 and $1.61, respectively. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate in response to one or more of the following factors, many of which are beyond our control: •volatility resulting from minimal trading activity; •changes in market valuations of similar companies; •stock market price and volume fluctuations generally; •economic conditions specific to the nutritional products industry; •economic conditions tied to global resource markets, such as fuel costs; •announcements by us or our competitors of new or enhanced products or of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; •fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; •changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; 15 Table of Contents •changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting our product costs, pricing or our customers markets; •regulatory developments effecting our specific products or industry; and •additions or departures of key personnel. The price at which you purchase shares of our common stock may not be indicative of the price that will prevail later in the trading market. You may be unable to sell your shares of common stock at or above your purchase price, which may result in substantial losses to you. As of March 31, 2009, there were approximately 5.2 million shares of our common stock outstanding. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of our common stock into the public market will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of stock options, or in anticipation of such sales, may materially and adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. 