ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may affect our financial results, our accounting, and the accuracy of the forward looking statements we make in this Form 10-K. We make statements regarding anticipated product introductions and performance, changes in markets, customers and customer order rates, expenditures in research and development, growth in revenue and improvement in profits, taxation levels, the effects of pricing, and competition, all of which represent our expectations and beliefs about future events. Our actual results may vary from these expectations because of a number of factors that affect our business, the most important of which include the following: • Our business has been and will continue to be significantly impacted by the global economy, and the current uncertainty in the outlook for the global economy makes it more likely that our actual results will differ materially from expectations. In 2009, the world economy experienced the worst economic recession since the great depression of the 1930’s. The severe economic conditions were brought about by extreme disruptions in global credit and financial markets including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. Although the world economy has started to recover, there can be no assurance as to the length and strength of the recovery, that it will continue or that the economy will not slide back into another period of recession. These economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. Any tightening of credit in financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders with us. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. The original equipment manufacturers to which we sell our sensors supply SMT manufacturers, and those manufacturers, as well as the circuit board manufacturers that purchase our SMT systems products directly, are largely dependent on continued demand for consumer and commercial electronics, including cell phones, smart phones and computers. Demand for electronics is a function of the health of the economies in the United States and around the world. Our results would be adversely affected in the future, when or if these economies move into periods of recession, thereby negatively impacting the demand for overall electronics and adversely affecting demand for our products. • Sales to our four largest customers constituted a significant portion of our revenue in 2011 and loss of any of these customers, or a decline in the customer’s business, would have a materially adverse impact on our results of operation. Sales to our four largest customers, including our two principal OEM sensor customers, and two original design manufacturers, constituted 46% of our total revenue in 2011. We believe our relationships with these customers are good and we continue to pursue new projects with them. However, like most manufactures in and suppliers to the global electronics markets, their businesses were adversely impacted by recession, and would most likely again be impacted in the future when or if the global economy moves into another recessionary period. If the order rates of these customers are negatively impacted by global economic events beyond their control, or if they choose sensors of inspections systems manufactured by other suppliers, or otherwise terminate their relationships with us, our long-term results of operations would be significantly adversely affected. •The market for capital equipment for the electronics industry in which we operate is cyclical and we cannot predict with precision when market downturns will occur. We operate in a cyclical market–the electronics capital equipment market–that periodically adjusts independent of global economic conditions. We have been unable to predict with accuracy the timing or magnitude of periodic downturns in this market. These downturns, particularly the severe downturns in electronics production markets from 2001 through 2003, and from 2008 through 2009, have severely affected our operations and generated several years of unprofitable operations. Ultimately, we have difficulty determining the duration or severity of any market downturns, the strength of any subsequent recoveries, and the long-term impact that the market may have on our business. •With our Solar Wafer Alignment camera, we have entered a new market where capital equipment purchases are dependent upon market factors that differ from our typical markets and may be more difficult to project. Sales of our Solar Wafer Alignment Camera are dependent upon the ability of DEK (a division of Dover Corporation) to design and sell photovoltaic cell equipment which is competitive in the marketplace. DEK’s success in turn is also dependent upon the commercial success of the solar energy market. Solar energy is currently not as economical as other more conventional energy sources, including those based on fossil fuels and its use is dependent upon significant government subsidies in many markets. Our future revenue from this product and ability to sell existing inventory may be impacted if DEK’s equipment is not competitive or if government subsidies for solar energy are reduced or eliminated, or if the technology related to solar energy does not continue to advance and become competitive with other more conventional sources of energy. 13 Table of Contents •World events beyond our control may affect our operations. Our operations and markets could be negatively affected by world events that effect economies and commerce in countries, such as China, Singapore and Japan, in which we do business. Natural disasters, such as the SARS outbreak, have affected travel patterns and accessibility in these countries in the past and other natural occurrences, such as a bird flu outbreak, could affect the business we do in these countries in the future. Other natural disasters, such as the tsunami and earthquake that hit Japan and the floods that hit Thailand in 2011, could also affect the business we do in the affected regions. Further, these countries may be affected by economic forces that are different from the forces that affect the United States and change the amount of business we conduct. •We generate more than three quarters of our revenue (approximately 85% in 2011) from export sales that are subject to risks of international operations. Our export sales are subject to many of the risks of international operations including: •currency controls and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; •changes in local market business requirements and increased cost and development time required to modify and translate our products for local markets; •inability to recruit qualified personnel in a specific country or region; •difficulty in establishing and maintaining relationships with local vendors; •differing foreign technical standards; •differing regulatory requirements; •export restrictions and controls, tariffs and other trade barriers; •reduced protection for intellectual property rights; •changes in political and economic conditions; •seasonal reductions in business activity; •potentially adverse tax assessments; and •terrorism, disease, or other events that may affect local economies and access. •We conduct platform and software development and final assembly and integration for our stand-alone system products in Singapore which are subject to unique risks due to the remote nature of the operations. Our Singapore development and manufacturing operations present a number of risks related to the retention of personnel, management of product development and operations, control over administrative and business processes, regulatory and legal issues we may encounter and other matters relating to foreign operations. We cannot be certain that we will be able to retain software development and management personnel in Singapore at attractive rates. Although most components for our system products are more readily available in Singapore, some of the hardware components used in our system products necessary for manufacture in Singapore may be difficult to import at efficient rates. Our financial performance, ability to serve our customers and ability to manufacture products could be negatively impacted if we are unable to retain our Singapore based employees, or if it costs more than expected to retain these employees or hire experienced employees in a timely manner, or if we are unable to locate suitable sources of supply for our products manufactured in Asia. •We price our products in US dollars, and as a result, our products may have difficulty competing in periods of increasing strength of the dollar. Virtually all of our international export sales are negotiated, invoiced and paid in U.S. dollars, and accordingly, currency fluctuations do not affect our revenue per unit. However, significant fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies could have an impact on the price competitiveness of our products relative to foreign competitors, which could impact the willingness of customers to purchase our products and have an impact on our results of operations. •Because of our significant operations in Singapore, our costs are negatively impacted when the U.S. dollar weakens relative to the Singapore dollar. A significant portion of our cost of goods, research and development and sales and marketing costs are denominated in the Singapore dollar. In addition, other sales and marketing costs are denominated in British Pounds Sterling and the Chinese Yuan, resulting from our sales offices located in the UK and China. Our costs will increase, and our results will be negatively impacted in future periods, if the U.S. dollar weakens relative to the currencies of these countries. 14 Table of Contents •We enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash flows denominated in foreign currencies associated with our subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and Singapore, which may result in unrealized, pre-tax losses. At December 31, 2011, the dollar equivalent gross notional amount of our foreign exchange forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges was approximately $11.0 million. At December 31, 2011, our open foreign exchange forward contracts were in an unrealized loss position equal to $493,000 on a pre-tax basis due to a significant strengthening of the U.S. dollar in relation to the Singapore dollar in the later part of 2011. If the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Singapore dollar were to remain unchanged over the next twelve months, we would realize this loss through our statement of operations. However, because we do not fully hedge all of our future anticipated cash flows in Singapore dollars, the portion of our costs that we do not hedge would be lower in relation to recent quarters. If the U.S. dollar were to weaken in future periods in relation to the Singapore dollar, the unrealized loss on our open foreign exchange forward contracts would be reduced, but costs that are not hedged would increase. For example, the unrealized pre-tax loss on our open foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding as of January 31, 2012 had been reduced to approximately $139,000, due to a weaker U.S. dollar. The ultimate impact of any fluctuation in the relationship between the U.S. dollar and Singapore dollar is dependent on the level of Singapore denominated cash flows in future periods. •Our products could become obsolete. Our current products, as well as the products we have under development, are designed to operate with the technology we believe currently exists or may exist for electronic components, printed circuit boards, memory modules, photovoltaic wafers and semiconductor manufacturing. The technology for these components changes rapidly and, because it takes considerable time to develop new products, we must anticipate technological developments in order to effectively compete. Further, because we do not have unlimited development resources, we might choose to forgo the pursuit of what becomes a leading technology and devote our resources to technology that is less successful. If we incorrectly anticipate technology developments, or have inadequate resources to develop our products to deal with changes in technology, our products could become obsolete. •We compete in the electronics assembly alignment sensor market with larger companies. Our electronic assembly alignment sensor products compete with products made by larger machine vision companies, other optical sensor companies, and by solutions internally developed by our customers. Advances in machine vision technology in recent years have eliminated some, but not all, of the features that have differentiated our products from some of these competitors, and advances in other technologies could eliminate other advantages. •The market for surface mount capital equipment has become very price competitive. The electronics capital equipment market for surface mount technologies is becoming more mature, resulting in increased price pressure on suppliers of equipment. Consequently, our electronic assembly stand-alone system and alignment sensor products have become subject to increased levels of price competition and competition from other suppliers and technologies, including suppliers in Asia who have specifically designed their products to compete favorably against our products. •We are dependent upon our systems business for approximately one-half of our revenue. During 2011, approximately 52% of our total revenue was generated by sales of stand-alone SPI and AOI systems. Sales of these products have been subject to increasing competition in world markets, particularly in Asia, negatively impacting sales prices for our products. If we are not successful in continuing to sell and differentiate this product line relative to our competition, our results of operations would be negatively affected. •Competitors in Asia may be able to compete favorably with us based on lower production and employee costs. We compete with large multinational systems companies in sales of stand-alone end-user system products, many of which are able to take advantage of greater financial resources and larger sales distribution networks. We also compete with new Asian based suppliers of stand-alone end-user systems products, many of which may have lower overall production and employee costs and are willing to offer their products at lower selling prices to customers. •We are exposed to credit risk through sales to our OEM customers and distributors of our stand-alone system products. We sell our products through three key OEM customers, and usually have significant credit exposure with respect to these customers. In addition, we sell our stand-alone inspection system products through a network of international distributors. These distributors tend to be smaller in size with limited financial resources and access to capital. Although these distributors do not hold our products in inventory for re-sale, we are exposed to credit risk and would incur losses if they are unable to pay for the products they have purchased from us. 15 Table of Contents •We are dependent upon outside suppliers for components of our products, and delays in or unavailability of those components would adversely affect our results. We use outside contractors to manufacture the components used in many of our products and some of the components we order require significant lead times that could affect our ability to sell our products if not available. In addition, if these components do not meet stringent quality requirements or become subject to obsolescence, there could be delays in product availability, and we could be required to make significant investments in designing replacement components. •Our growth has been dependent on technical innovation, some of which was generated by our founder, and our growth could be impacted if we are unable to innovate in the future. Although our results are cyclical, our longer-term growth has been in the past, and we anticipate will be in the future, dependent upon our ability to introduce new and innovative products. Many of our product innovations were generated by our founder, Dr. Steven K. Case, who died in June 2009. Although we have devoted and continue to devote significant resources to research and development to support this innovation and believe we have talented scientists who have and will continue to develop significant new inventions, if we fail to create significant new product innovations, our market position would be negatively impacted. •Our ability to gain share in our current markets and to identify, focus on and achieve success in new markets is dependent on our ability to identify the customer requirements in segments of our current market or new markets where we lack familiarity. Our ability to grow share in our current markets and achieve success in new markets is subject to a number of risks, including hiring and retaining key sales and marketing personnel, identifying new markets where our technology may have applicability, and our ability to identify the requirements to successfully compete in those markets, including sales channels, product development and other market specific requirements. •The absence of significant market liquidity in our common stock could impact the ability of our shareholders to purchase and sell larger blocks, the attractiveness of our stock to institutional shareholders, and the market value of our common stock. There were 6,933,029 shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2011. Although our common stock is traded in the NASDAQ Global Market, in part because of the number of shares we have outstanding and available for trading, the daily trading volume in our stock is low, averaging less than 15,000 shares per day. Shareholders wishing to purchase or sell larger blocks of stock may not be able to do so quickly, and disposal by any shareholder of a significant block of stock could adversely affect the sale price in the marketplace. Further, institutional investors often have policies against investment in stock that is illiquid, and many institutional investors may elect not to purchase or hold our stock because of the inability to dispose of it. The reduced institutional interest, as well as the lack of current evaluations by securities analysts, has had and can be expected to continue to have a further adverse impact on the market price and liquidity of our common stock. 