Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below which we believe are significant but not the only ones we face. Any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. You should also refer to the other information contained in this report, including our financial statements and the related notes. We May Need to Raise Additional Capital in the Future Which May Not Be Available At March 31, 2007, our working capital was $3,361,000. Cash and cash equivalents at the same date totaled $1,444,000. Our cash requirements will depend on numerous factors, including demand for products; normal requirements to maintain and upgrade facilities and equipment; whether opportunities emerge in either new markets or in research and development activities; or, in the event we need to expand or contract our production or distribution infrastructure. We believe our cash and cash equivalents to be provided from operations will be sufficient to meet our capital and operating requirements for at least the next 12 months, but we may need to raise additional funds and we may not be able to secure funding on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our then current stockholders may be reduced. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of convertible debt securities, or through additional debt or similar instruments, such securities, debt, or similar instruments could have rights senior to those of our common stockholders and such instruments could contain provisions restricting our operations. If adequate funds are not available to satisfy either short-term or long-term capital requirements, we may be required to limit operations with adverse results. We have incurred significant losses in the past, and we may continue to incur significant losses in the future. If we continue to incur losses, we will experience negative cash flow which may hamper current operations and prevent us from sustaining or expanding our business. We have incurred net losses in three of the last five fiscal years. As of March 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $19.9 million. During fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2003, we incurred net losses in the amounts of approximately $7.4 million, $391,000 and $1.8 million, respectively, accounting for approximately one half of our accumulated deficit since our inception. Historically, we have relied upon cash from operations and financing activities to fund all of the cash requirements of our business. If an extended period of net losses continues, our negative cash flow will likewise, and may hamper current operations and prevent us from sustaining or expanding our business. We cannot assure you that we will attain, sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If we do not achieve, sustain or increase profitability, our business will be adversely affected and our stock price may decline. 11 Our stock price is volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. During the first three months of fiscal 2008, the high and low closing bid prices of a share of our common stock were $1.90 and $1.43, respectively. During fiscal 2007, the high and low closing bid prices of a share of our common stock were $3.40 and $1.61, respectively. During fiscal 2006, the high and low closing bid prices of a share of our common stock were $4.92 and $2.20, respectively. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate in response to one or more of the following factors, many of which are beyond our control: · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · stock market price and volume fluctuations generally; · economic conditions specific to the nutritional products industry; · announcements by us or our competitors of new or enhanced products or of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · the loss of one or more of our top retailers or the cancellation or postponement of orders from any of those retailers; · problems in the functioning of new products or innovations; · changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; · changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting our product costs and pricing; · regulatory developments or increased enforcement; · fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; and · additions or departures of key personnel. The price at which you purchase shares of our common stock may not be indicative of the price that will prevail later in the trading market. You may be unable to sell your shares of common stock at or above your purchase price, which may result in substantial losses to you. As of March 31, 2007, there were approximately 5.2 million shares of our common stock outstanding. Our common stock has a large public float, and as a group, our executive officers, directors and 5% stockholders, beneficially own less than 20% of our common stock. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of our common stock into the public market will have on the market price of our common stock. Even though we have a large public float, sales of substantial amounts of common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of stock options, or in anticipation of such sales, may materially and adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. The nutritional products industry is extremely competitive. Many of our significant competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, and one or more of these competitors could use their greater resources to gain market share at our expense. The nutritional products market includes international, national, regional and local producers and distributors, many of whom have substantially greater production, financial, research and development, personnel and marketing resources than we do, and many of whom offer a greater variety of products. As a result, each of these companies could compete more aggressively and sustain that competition over a longer period of time than we could. Our lack of resources relative to our significant competitors may cause us to fail to anticipate or respond adequately to development of new products and changing consumer demands and preferences, or may cause us to experience significant delays in obtaining or 12 introducing new or enhanced products. These failures or delays could reduce our competitiveness and cause a decline in our market share and sales. Increased competition in our industry could result in price reductions, reduced gross profit margin or loss of market share, any of which could have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Revenues Could Be Adversely Affected By the Loss of a Significant Customer or the Failure to Collect a Large Accounts Receivable We have in the past derived, and may continue in the future to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a relatively limited number of major customers. From quarter to quarter, revenues from one or more individual customers may exceed 10% of our revenues for the quarter. During each of the three years ended March 31, 2007, sales to one customer, a European distributor of natural products, were approximately 10%, 12% and 10% of net sales, respectively. If sales to this customer or other such major customer decrease significantly, this may materially affect our results of operations. In addition, if we fail to collect one or more accounts receivable from major customers, we could be subject to significant financial exposure. We depend heavily on the unique abilities and knowledge of our officers and key personnel which include the President and Chief Executive Officer who is also the Company’s primary scientific resource, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Finance and Administration, Vice President of Operations and Vice President of Sales and Marketing. Cyanotech is a small company and the loss of any such personnel or the delay in the replacement of one could significantly delay the achievement of our business objectives, and could adversely affect our ability to do business or could hinder our ability to provide needed management. Our success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued services of such personnel. For example, the Chief Executive Officer, as the Company’s primary scientific resource, has developed and continues to improve production and cultivation technology and to investigate new microalgal products. Our Chief Financial Officer has a unique understanding of the company’s financial systems and needs. Our Vice President Operations has years of experience with the mechanical operation of the production facility and continues to improve our production process. Our Vice President Sales and Marketing has developed valuable personal relationships with domestic and foreign customers. Our production of algae involves an agricultural process, subject to such risks as weather, disease, and contamination. The production of our algae products involves complex agricultural systems with inherent risks including weather, disease, and contamination. These risks are unpredictable, and also include such elements as the control and balance of necessary nutrients and other factors. Our operations are vulnerable because we have limited personnel and redundancy and backup systems in our data management function. Our internal order, inventory and product data management system is an electronic system through which orders are placed for our products and through which we manage product pricing, shipment, returns and other matters. This system’s continued and uninterrupted performance is critical to our day-to-day business operations. Despite our precautions, unanticipated interruptions in our computer and telecommunications systems have, in the past, caused problems or stoppages in this electronic system. These interruptions, and resulting problems, could occur in the future. We also have limited personnel available to process purchase orders and to manage product pricing and other matters in any manner other than through this electronic system. Any significant interruption or delay in the operation of this electronic system could cause a decline in our sales and profitability. 13 A Significant or Prolonged Economic Downturn Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations Our results of operations are affected by the business activity of our customers who in turn are affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. A decline in the level of business activity of our clients could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profit margin. Our Quarterly Operating Results May Vary From Quarter to Quarter, Which May Result in Increased Volatility of Our Share Price We have experienced, and may in the future continue to experience, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. These fluctuations could reduce the market price of our Common Stock. Factors that may cause our quarterly operating results to vary include, but are not limited to: · the business decisions of our customers regarding orders for our products; · increased energy costs; · increased raw material costs; · production difficulties; · weather-related cultivation difficulties; · contamination of our cultivation and production facilities; · the effect of weather on customer demand patterns; · the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; · changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; · changes in seasonal and other trends in our customers’ buying patterns; · changes in government regulation, both domestic and foreign; · fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates, although our exposure is currently not material; · global economic and political conditions and related risks, including acts of terrorism; and · other factors beyond our control. A significant portion of our expense levels are relatively fixed and the timing of increases in expense levels is based in large part on our forecasts of future sales. If net sales are below expectations in any given period, the adverse impact on results of operations may be magnified by our inability to adjust expenses quickly enough to compensate for the sales shortfall. Our Global Operations Expose Us to Complex Management, Foreign Currency, Legal, Tax and Economic Risks, Which We May Not Be Able to Address Quickly and Adequately We conduct business in a number of countries around the world. For the year ended March 31, 2007, approximately 46% of our net sales were from sales to foreign customers. As a result, we are subject to a number of risks which include, but are not limited to: · the burden of complying with a wide variety of national and local laws; · potentially longer payment cycles for foreign sales; · multiple and possibly overlapping and conflicting tax laws; 14 · coordinating geographically separated locations; · restrictions (government and otherwise) on the movement of cash; · the absence in some jurisdictions of effective laws protecting our intellectual property rights; · changes in government regulations, both domestic and foreign; · global economic and political conditions and related risks, including acts of terrorism; and · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates although our exposure is currently not material. If We Are Unable to Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights or if We Infringe Upon the Intellectual Property Rights of Others Our Business May Be Harmed Cyanotech has received five United States patents: two on aspects of our production methods and three for use of our BioAstinâ products. Although we regard our proprietary technology, trade secrets, trademarks and similar intellectual property as important, we rely on a combination of trade secret, contract, patent, copyright and trademark law to establish and protect our rights in our products and technology. There can be no assurance that we will be able to protect our technology adequately or that competitors will not be able to develop similar technology independently. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect the Company’s intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Litigation in the United States or abroad may be necessary to enforce our patent or other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement. Such litigation, even if successful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, if any such claims are asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license under the third party’s intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance, however, that a license would be available on terms acceptable or favorable to us, if at all. Our Insurance Liability Coverage is Limited In the ordinary course of business, the Company purchases insurance coverages (e.g., property and liability coverages) to protect itself against loss of or damage to its properties and claims made by third parties and employees for property damage or personal injuries. However, the protection provided by such insurance is limited in significant respects and, in some instances, the Company has no coverage and certain of the Company’s insurance has substantial “deductibles” or has limits on the maximum amounts that may be recovered. For example, if a hurricane or other uninsured catastrophic natural disaster should occur, the Company may not be able to recover all facility restoration costs and revenues lost from business interruption. In addition, the Company maintains product liability insurance in limited amounts for all of its products involving human consumption; however, broader product liability coverage is prohibitively expensive. Insurers have also introduced new exclusions or limitations of coverage for claims related to certain perils including, but not limited to, mold and terrorism. If a series of losses occurred, such as from a series of lawsuits in the ordinary course of business each of which were subject to the deductible amount, or if the maximum limit of the available insurance were substantially exceeded, the Company could incur losses in amounts that would have a material adverse effect on its result of operations and financial condition. Our Ability to Develop and Market New Products or Modify Existing Products and Production Methods May be Adversely Affected If we Lose the Services of or Cannot Replace Certain Employees Knowledgeable in Advanced Scientific and Other Fields The Company’s products are derived from and depend on proprietary and non-proprietary processes and methods founded on advanced scientific knowledge, skills, and expertise. If the services of employees 15 knowledgeable in these fields are lost and cannot be replaced in a reasonable time frame at reasonable costs, the Company’s ability to develop and market new products or modify existing products and production methods would be adversely impacted. At the same time, regulatory compliance surrounding the Company’s products and financial matters generally requires minimum levels of knowledge and expertise related to production, quality assurance, and financial control. If the Company loses the services or cannot reasonably replace employees who have the necessary knowledge and expertise the Company’s ability to remain in regulatory compliance could be adversely affected. By March 31, 2008 the Company is required to be in full compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and Rules issued thereunder by the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Section 404 Compliance Standards established by the Public Companies Accounting Oversight Board. The cost of attaining and maintaining such compliance could materially decrease reported net income or increase reported net losses in future periods. Although the Company has previously taken steps toward what is generally referred to as Sarbanes-Oxley Act compliance, the process of preparing and filing the Company’s Form 10-K/A filed February 14, 2007 and subsequent delayed filings of the Company’s Forms 10-Q for fiscal year 2007, coupled with the lack of resources discussed in Item 9A of this report, have delayed the Company’s efforts toward implementing full Sarbanes-Oxley compliance. Such compliance must be achieved by March 31, 2008. To do so could require significant expenditures and effort between this date and March 31, 2008. Such expenditures and effort are not subject to reasonable estimation at this time. 