ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may effect our financial results, our accounting, and the accuracy of the forward looking statements we make in this Form 10-K. We make statements regarding anticipated product introductions, changes in markets, customers and customer order rates, expenditures in research and development, growth in revenue, taxation levels, the effects of pricing, and the ability to continue to price foreign transactions in U.S. currency, all of which represent our expectations and beliefs about future events. Our actual results may vary from these expectations because of a number of factors that affect our business, the most important of which include the following: Ÿ Our business has been and may continue to be significantly impacted by the recent deterioration in worldwide economic conditions, and the current uncertainty in the outlook for the global economy makes it more likely that our actual results will differ materially from expectations. Global credit and financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruptions in recent months, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. There can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions. These economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. The current tightening of credit in financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders with us. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. The original equipment manufacturers to which we sell our sensors supply SMT manufacturers, and those manufacturers, as well as the circuit board manufacturers that purchase our SMT systems products directly, are largely dependent on continued demand for consumer and commercial electronics, including cell phones and computers. Demand for electronics is a function of the health of the economies in the United States and around the world and as these economies have moved into a recession, the demand for overall electronics has been adversely affected and therefore, demand for our products and our operating results has been adversely affected. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic disruption or subsequent economic recovery, worldwide, in the United States, in our industry, or in the electronics market. These and other economic factors have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. Ÿ Pending loss of significant customer for our electronic assembly sensors. Historically, we have been dependent on two customers for a significant amount of our revenue. Sales to Assembleon constituted 15% of our total revenue in 2008 and 20% of our total revenue in 2007. Assembleon has informed us that they plan to start transitioning away from our sensor products in the third quarter of 2009, with the transition continuing into the second quarter of 2010. Although we expect to continue to generate some repair revenue from Assembleon and its customers, we expect that the 10% of our revenue that was generated from new product sales to Assembleon will be eliminated by the end of 2010. Our results of operations and cash flows would be further negatively impacted if Assembleon transitions away from our products sooner than expected. Ÿ Sales to one customer constitute a significant portion of our revenue and loss of that customer, or a decline in the customer’s business, would have a materially adverse impact on our results of operation. Sales to our largest customer constituted 21% of our total revenue in 2008 and 28% of our total revenue in 2007. Although we believe our relationship with this customer is excellent and we continue to pursue joint development projects with them, like most suppliers to the electronics manufacturing markets, their business has been impacted by the global economic downturn and they have advised us that their orders for additional sensor products from us during the first and second quarters of 2009 well be unusually low due to the difficult global economic conditions. If their order rate does not return to its historical level or if they are unsuccessful in selling the products into which our sensors are incorporated, or if they design their products to function without our sensors, purchase sensors from other suppliers, or otherwise terminate their relationship with us, our long-term results of operations would be significantly adversely affected. Ÿ Although our move of systems product development and manufacturing operations to Singapore is intended to save cost, increase responsiveness to Asian systems customers and free US development staff for sensor development, we might not achieve these objectives and the move could prove costly or result in reduced control and efficiency of systems operations. Our move to Singapore presents a number of risks related to the retention of personnel, management of development and manufacturing, control over administrative, manufacturing and business processes, regulatory and legal issues we may encounter and other matters relating to foreign operations. We cannot be certain that we will be able to retain software development personnel in Singapore of the caliber required for our products, we will be able to retain management on whom we can rely, or that these personnel, or manufacturing personnel, can be retained at attractive rates. Although we anticipate that components for our systems products may be more readily available there, we cannot be certain that we will be able to import the hardware components used in our systems products necessary for manufacture in Singapore at efficient rates. Our future financial performance, ability to serve our customers and manufacture products could be negatively impacted if the move of our systems related manufacturing operations to Singapore takes longer than intended, costs more than expected to hire experienced employees in a timely manner, or if we are unable to locate suitable sources of supply for our products manufactured in Asia. 13 Table of Contents Ÿ The market for capital equipment for the electronics industry in which we operate is cyclical and we cannot predict with precision when market downturns will occur. We operate in a very cyclical market–the electronics capital equipment market-that periodically adjusts independent of global economic conditions. We have been unable to predict with accuracy the timing or magnitude of periodic downturns in this market. These downturns, particularly the severe downturn in electronics production markets from 2001 through 2003, have severely affected our operations in the past and generated several years of unprofitable operations. We are currently experiencing another significant downturn in our markets due to the current severe global economic recession. We are presently unable to determine the duration or severity of the downturn in our markets, and the long-term impact that it may have on our business. Ÿ World events beyond our control may effect our operations. Our operations and markets could be negatively affected by world events that effect economies and commerce in countries, such as China, Singapore and Japan, in which we do business. Natural disasters, such as the SARS outbreak, have affected travel patterns and accessibility in these countries in the past and other natural occurrences, such as a bird flu outbreak, could affect the business we do in these countries in the future. Further, these countries may be affected by economic forces that are different from the forces that affect the United States and change the amount of business we conduct. Ÿ We are dependent upon a single product line in our systems business for approximately a quarter of our revenue. During 2008, approximately 24% of our total revenue was generated by sales of a single SMT systems product line, the SE 300 Ultra. Sales of this product have been subject to increasing competition in the Asian markets, negatively impacting our market share and sales prices for our products. If we are not successful in continuing to sell and differentiate this product line relative to our competition, our results of operations would be negatively affected. In addition, we will be introducing a next generation solder paste inspection system to replace the SE 300 Ultra during the second quarter of 2009. Our revenue could be negatively affected if we encounter unanticipated product quality or performance issues with this new product, if we experience further delays in its introduction, or if the product is not accepted by the marketplace in the manner we currently expect. Ÿ We generate more than three quarters of our revenue (approximately 86% in 2008) from export sales that are subject to risks of international operations. Our export sales are subject to many of the risks of international operations including: • currency controls and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • changes in local market business requirements and increased cost and development time required to modify and translate our products for local markets; • inability to recruit qualified personnel in a specific country or region; • difficulty in establishing and maintaining relationships with local vendors; • differing foreign technical standards; • differing regulatory requirements; • export restrictions and controls, tariffs and other trade barriers; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights; • changes in political and economic conditions; • seasonal reductions in business activity; • potentially adverse tax assessments; and • terrorism, disease, or other events that may affect local economies and access. Ÿ Because we price our products in US dollars, our products may have difficulty competing in periods of increasing strength of the dollar. All of our international export sales are negotiated, invoiced and paid in U.S. dollars, and accordingly, currency fluctuations do not affect our revenue and income per unit. However, significant fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies could have an impact on the price competitiveness of our products relative to foreign competitors, which could impact the willingness of customers to purchase our products and have an impact on our results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Ÿ Our products could become obsolete. Our current products, as well as the products we have under development, are designed to operate with the technology we believe currently exists or may exist for electronic components, printed circuit boards and memory modules. The technology for these components changes rapidly and, because it takes considerable time to develop new products, we must anticipate technological developments in order to effectively compete. Further, because we do not have unlimited development resources, we might choose to forgo the pursuit of what becomes a leading technology and devote our resources to technology that is less successful. If we incorrectly anticipate technology developments, or have inadequate resources to develop our products to deal with changes in technology, our products could become obsolete. Ÿ We compete in the electronics assembly sensor market with larger companies. Our electronic assembly sensor products compete with products made by larger machine vision companies, other optical sensor companies, and by solutions internally developed by our customers. Advances in machine vision technology in recent years have eliminated some, but not all, of the features that have differentiated our products from some of these competitors. Ÿ The market for surface mount capital equipment has become very price competitive. The electronics capital equipment market for surface mount technologies is becoming more mature, resulting in increased price pressure on suppliers of equipment. Consequently, our electronic assembly system and sensor products have become subject to increased levels of price competition and competition from other suppliers and technologies, including suppliers in Asia who have specifically designed their products to compete favorably against our products. Ÿ Our systems products carry lower margins. We use a different distribution network to sell our end-user systems products, and generate lower margins from these products, than the distribution system and margins from our electronic assembly sensor and semiconductor products. To the extent our end-user systems constitute a larger portion of our business, our profit margins may be affected. Ÿ Competitors in Asia may be able to compete favorably with us based on lower production and employee costs. We compete with large multinational systems companies in sales of end-user systems products, many of which are able to take advantage of greater financial resources and larger sales distribution networks. We also compete with new Asian based suppliers of end-user systems products, many of which may have lower overall production and employee costs and are willing to offer their products at lower selling prices to customers. Ÿ We are dependent upon outside suppliers for components of our products, and delays in or unavailability of those components would adversely affect our results. We use outside contractors to manufacture the components used in many of our products and some of the components we order require significant lead times that could affect our ability to sell our products if not available. In addition, if these components do not meet stringent quality requirements or become subject to obsolescence, there could be delays in product availability, and we could be required to make significant investments in designing replacement components. Ÿ Our operations could be effected by lead-free regulations. New regulations have been enacted in various countries requiring the reduction of hazardous substances in electronics products and capital equipment in future years. New regulations are also increasing the obligations of manufacturers of electronics products and capital equipment to ensure proper disposal of their products when they are no longer being used by the customer. When effective, these regulations will impact production processes of our customers and require us to incorporate lead-free components into our products. If the production processes of our customers are interrupted, or we are not able to complete the transition to lead-free components in our products by the effective date of these regulations, our results of operations could be negatively affected. In addition the new regulations requiring us to ensure proper disposal of our products will increase our costs, and our results of operations could be negatively affected. Ÿ Our growth has been dependent on technical innovation and is affected by the timing and success of product introductions. Although our results are cyclical, our objective is to grow revenue and profitability over the long term. Our growth has been in the past, and we anticipate that it will be in the future, dependent upon our ability to introduce new and innovative products. We plan to continue to introduce new products during 2009 and beyond. If those introductions are delayed, our revenue and profitability could be negatively affected. We have devoted and continue to devote significant resources to our SMT system products, including enhancements to SE 300 Ultra, Flex Ultra, Flex Ultra HR, next generation system products and also our WaferSense family of products. In addition, we have devoted and continue to devote significant resources to complete development and commence sale of our embedded process verification (EPV) products. The introduction of these and other new products could be delayed because of economic conditions affecting our customers, required adaptations for OEM requirements and other issues and these products have yet to generate substantial commercial sales. 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 