Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below which we believe are significant but not the only ones we face. Any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. You should also refer to the other information contained in this report, including our financial statements and the related notes. A Significant or Prolonged Economic Downturn Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations Our results of operations are affected by the business activity of our customers who in turn are affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. A decline in the level of business activity of our clients could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profit margin. 10 Our Quarterly Operating Results May Vary From Quarter to Quarter, Which May Result in Increased Volatility of Our Share Price We have experienced, and may in the future continue to experience, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. These fluctuations could reduce the market price of our Common Stock. Factors that may cause our quarterly operating results to vary include, but are not limited to: · the business decisions of our customers regarding orders for our products; · increased energy costs; · increased raw material costs; · production difficulties; · weather-related cultivation difficulties; · contamination of our cultivation and production facilities; · the effect of weather on customer demand patterns; · the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; · changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; · seasonal trends in our customers’ buying patterns · changes in government regulation, both domestic and foreign; · fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates; · global economic and political conditions and related risks, including acts of terrorism; and · other factors beyond our control. A significant portion of our expense levels are relatively fixed and the timing of increases in expense levels is based in large part on our forecasts of future sales. If net sales are below expectations in any given period, the adverse impact on results of operations may be magnified by our inability to adjust expenses quickly enough to compensate for the sales shortfall. Market Price for Our Common Stock Has Been Unpredictable; Potential Delisting. On December 1, 2005 the Company received notice from Nasdaq that the bid price of the Company’s stock closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for the last 30 consecutive business days as required by NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4). However, the Company was provided 180 calendar days, or until May 30, 2006, to regain compliance by virtue of the bid price closing at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 days. Compliance was not demonstrated by May 30, 2006, but the Nasdaq staff determined and communicated to the Company in a letter dated May 31, 2006 that the Company: “ met all initial inclusion criteria for The Nasdaq Capital Market set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c) (except for the bid price). As a result, the Company has been provided an additional 180 calendar day compliance period or until November 27, 2006 to regain compliance with respect to the bid price deficiency. Marketplace rule 4310(c)(8)(E) states that: Nasdaq may, in its discretion, require an issuer to maintain a bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a period in excess of ten consecutive business days, but generally no more than 20 consecutive business days, before determining that the issuer has demonstrated an ability to maintain long-term compliance. In determining whether to monitor bid price beyond ten business days, Nasdaq will consider the following four factors: (i) margin of compliance (the amount by which the price is above the $1.00 minimum standard); (ii) trading volume (a lack of trading volume may indicate a lack of bona fide market interest in the security at the 11 posted bid price); (iii) the market maker montage (the number of market makers quoting at or above $1.00 and the size of their quotes); and, (iv) the trend of the stock price (is it up or down).” Our Global Operations Expose Us to Complex Management, Foreign Currency, Legal, Tax and Economic Risks, Which We May Not Be Able to Address Adequately We conduct business in a number of countries around the world. For the year ended March 31, 2006, approximately 52% of our net sales were from sales to foreign customers. As a result, we are subject to a number of risks which include, but are not limited to: · the burden of complying with a wide variety of national and local laws; · potentially longer payment cycles for foreign sales; · multiple and possibly overlapping and conflicting tax laws; · coordinating geographically separated locations; · restrictions (government and otherwise) on the movement of cash; · the absence in some jurisdictions of effective laws protecting our intellectual property rights; · changes in government regulations, both domestic and foreign; · global economic and political conditions and related risks, including acts of terrorism; and · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Competition in Our Industry is Intense The nutritional products market is highly competitive. In includes international, national, regional and local producers and distributors, many of whom have greater resources than Cyanotech and many of whom offer a greater variety of products. Increased competition in our industry could result in price reductions, reduced gross profit margin or loss of market share, any of which could have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Revenues Could Be Adversely Affected By the Loss of a Significant Customer or the Failure to Collect a Large Accounts Receivable We have in the past derived, and may continue in the future to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a relatively limited number of major customers. From quarter to quarter, revenues from one or more individual customers may exceed 10% of our revenues for the quarter. During the year ended March 31, 2006, sales to one customer, a European distributor of natural products, were approximately 12% of net sales. If sales to this customer or other such major customer decrease significantly, this may materially affect our results of operations. In addition, if we fail to collect large accounts receivable from such major customers, we could be subject to significant financial exposure. 12 If We Are Unable to Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights or if We Infringe Upon the Intellectual Property Rights of Others Our Business May Be Harmed Cyanotech has received five United States patents: two on aspects of our production methods and three for use of our BioAstinâ products. Although we regard our proprietary technology, trade secrets, trademarks and similar intellectual property as important, we rely on a combination of trade secret, contract, patent, copyright and trademark law to establish and protect our rights in our products and technology. There can be no assurance that we will be able to protect our technology adequately or that competitors will not be able to develop similar technology independently. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect the Company’s intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Litigation in the United States or abroad may be necessary to enforce our patent or other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement. Such litigation, even if successful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, if any such claims are asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license under the third party’s intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance, however, that a license would be available on terms acceptable or favorable to us, if at all. We May Need to Raise Additional Capital in the Future Which May Not Be Available At March 31, 2006, the Company’s working capital was $5,525,000. Cash equivalents and short-term investments at March 31, 2006 totaled $2,535,000. Our cash requirements will depend on numerous factors, including: demand for products; normal requirements to maintain and upgrade facilities and equipment; whether opportunities emerge in either new markets or in research and development activities; or, in the event we need to expand or contract our production or distribution infrastructure. We believe our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, and cash provided from operations will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. If we need to raise additional funds, we may not be able to secure funding on acceptable terms, or not at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our then current stockholders may be reduced. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of convertible debt securities, or through additional debt or similar instruments, such securities, debt, or similar instruments could have rights senior to those of our common stockholders and such instruments could contain provisions restricting our operations. If adequate funds are not available to satisfy either short-term or long-term capital requirements, we may be required to limit operations with adverse results. Our Insurance Liability Coverage is Limited In the ordinary course of business, the Company purchases insurance coverages (e.g., property and liability coverages) to protect itself against loss of or damage to its properties and claims made by third parties and employees for property damage or personal injuries. However, the protection provided by such insurance is limited in significant respects and, in some instances, the Company has no coverage and certain of the Company’s insurance has substantial “deductibles” or has limits on the maximum amounts that may be recovered. For example, if a hurricane or other uninsured catastrophic natural disaster should occur, the Company may not be able to recover all facility restoration costs and revenues lost from business interruption. In addition, the Company maintains product liability insurance in limited amounts for all of its products involving human consumption; however, broader product liability coverage is prohibitively expensive. Insurers have also introduced new exclusions or limitations of coverage for claims related to certain perils including, but not limited to, mold and terrorism. If a series of losses occurred, such as from a series of lawsuits in the ordinary course of business each of which were subject to the deductible amount, or if the maximum limit of the available insurance were substantially exceeded, the Company could incur 13 losses in amounts that would have a material adverse effect on its result of operations and financial condition. Our Ability to Develop and Market New Products or Modify Existing Products and Production Methods May be Adversely Affected If we Lose the Services of or Cannot Replace Certain Employees Knowledgeable in Advanced Scientific and Other Fields The Company’s products are derived from and depend on proprietary and non-proprietary processes and methods founded on advanced scientific knowledge, skills, and expertise. If the services of employees knowledgeable in these fields are lost and cannot be replaced in a reasonable time frame at reasonable costs, the Company’s ability to develop and market new products or modify existing products and production methods would be adversely impacted. At the same time, regulatory compliance surrounding the Company’s products and financial matters generally requires minimum levels of knowledge and expertise related to production, quality assurance, and financial control. If the Company loses the services or cannot reasonably replace employees who have the necessary knowledge and expertise the Company’s ability to remain in regulatory compliance could be adversely affected. 