Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below which we believe are significant but not the only ones we face. Any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. You should also refer to the other information contained in this report, including our financial statements and the related notes. 8 Our production of algae involves an agricultural process, subject to such risks as weather, disease and contamination. The production of our algae products involves complex agricultural systems with inherent risks including weather, disease, and contamination. These risks are unpredictable and also include such elements as the control and balance of necessary nutrients and other factors. The efficient and effective cultivation of microalgae requires consistent light, warm temperatures, low rainfall and proper chemical balance in a very nutrient-rich environment. If the chemical composition of a pond changes from its required balance, unusually high levels of contamination due to the growth of unwanted organisms or other biological problems may occur and would result in a loss of harvestable output. These often arise without warning and sometimes there are few or no clear indicators as to appropriate remediation or corrective measures. We believe that our technology, systems, processes and favorable growing location generally permit year-round harvest of our microalgal products in a cost-effective manner. However, environmental factors cannot be controlled in an open air environment, therefore, we cannot, and do not attempt to, provide any form of assurance with regard to our systems, processes, location, or cost-effectiveness. To the extent that our production is negatively impacted by environmental factors, we may be unable to fill large orders for one or more months until such time that production improves. There is risk in operating entirely in one business segment such as the cultivation and production of microalgae at a single production facility. Single location agricultural and production facilities do not provide the protections and assurances afforded by operations in two or more widely separated locations. Our single location in Hawaii is susceptible to catastrophic natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes and volcanic eruptions. In the event of a natural disaster or localized extended outages of critical utilities or transportation systems, we could experience a significant business interruption. In addition, Hawaii from time to time has experienced shortages of water, electric power and fuels. Future shortages could disrupt our operations and could result in additional expense. Also, a single agricultural facility provides limited biologic diversity protection against invasive, mutant, or harmful organisms. Our facilities in Hawaii are located adjacent to a major airport, and an aircraft disaster could disrupt our operations. Our production facility and corporate headquarters in Hawaii are located adjacent to the Keahole International airport. In the event of an aircraft disaster, we could experience a significant business interruption, including loss of water, electrical and communication services as well as inability to access our facilities. Unfavorable publicity or consumer perception of our products and any similar products distributed by other companies could have a material adverse effect on our business. The nutritional supplements market is highly dependent upon consumer perception regarding the safety, efficacy and quality of nutritional supplements. Consumer perception of our products can be significantly influenced by scientific research and findings, as well as by national media attention and other publicity regarding the consumption of nutritional supplements. There can be no assurance that future research or publicity will be favorable to the nutritional supplements market or any product in particular, or consistent with earlier publicity. Our dependence on consumer perception means that any adverse reports, findings or publicity, whether or not accurate or with merit, could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and on our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Litigation could adversely impact our business by distracting our management from the operation of our business and by increasing our expenses. We are a party to various litigation, claims and legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business. Even when such matters in our judgment have little or no merit, the Company’s defense of these may be costly and may divert our management’s attention. The costs of litigation can vary from quarter to quarter based on the status of the proceedings and could have a material impact on our results in any given quarter. The nutritional products industry is extremely competitive. Many of our significant competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, and one or more of these competitors could use their greater resources to gain market share at our expense. The nutritional products market includes international, national, regional and local producers and distributors, many of whom have substantially greater production, financial, research and development, personnel and marketing resources than we do, and many of whom offer a greater variety of products. As a result, each of these companies could compete more aggressively and sustain that competition over a longer period of time than we could. Our lack of resources relative to our significant competitors may cause us to fail to anticipate or respond adequately to development of new products and changing consumer demands and preferences, or may cause us to experience significant delays in obtaining or introducing new or enhanced products. These failures or delays could reduce our competitiveness and cause a decline in our market share and sales. Increased competition in our industry could result in price reductions, reduced gross profit margin or loss of market share, any of which could have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 9 We depend heavily on the unique abilities and knowledge of our officers and key personnel. Our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Scientific Officer have knowledge and experience critical to our ongoing operations of the Company. We also depend on the unique knowledge of our Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Finance and Administration, Vice President of Operations, Vice President of Sales and Marketing, and Vice President of Quality & Regulatory Affairs. We are a small company and the loss of any such personnel or the delay in the replacement of one could significantly delay the achievement of our business objectives and could adversely affect our ability to do business or could hinder our ability to provide needed management. Our success depends, to a significant extent, upon the services of such personnel. For example, the Chief Executive Officer has industry knowledge, experience and operating discipline vital to the management of the Company and consistent delivery of our products. The Chief Scientific Officer and founder of our company is our primary scientific resource, continuing to improve production and cultivation technology and to investigate new microalgal products. Our Chief Financial Officer has a unique understanding of our financial systems and needs. Our Vice President Operations has years of experience with the mechanical operation of the production facility and continues to improve our production process. Our Vice President Sales and Marketing has developed valuable personal relationships with domestic and foreign customers. Our Vice President of Quality and Regulatory Affairs has experience and knowledge of federal and state regulations governing our production processes and product representation essential to continuing compliance. Attracting permanent skilled employees in Hawaii can be difficult due to limited local qualified applicants. Our operations are vulnerable because we have limited personnel and redundancy and backup systems in our data management function. Our internal order, inventory and product data management system is an electronic system through which orders are placed for our products and through which we manage product pricing, shipment, returns and other matters. This system’s continued and uninterrupted performance is critical to our day-to-day business operations. Despite our precautions, unanticipated interruptions in our computer and telecommunications systems have, in the past, caused problems or stoppages in this electronic system. These interruptions, and resulting problems, could occur again in the future. We also have limited personnel available to process purchase orders and to manage product pricing and other matters in any manner other than through this electronic system. Any significant interruption or delay in the operation of this electronic management system could cause a decline in our sales and profitability. A significant or prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our results of operations are affected by the business activity of our customers who in turn are affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. A decline in the level of business activity of our clients or the economy as a whole could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profit margin. The global cost of oil derived energy impacts us in several ways, and it may hinder our efforts to achieve profitability. Oil prices primarily impact us through the costs of electricity, transportation, materials and supplies which are tied to the cost of oil either directly or indirectly. The return of a high cost of oil on a global basis may signal a prolonged economic downturn resulting in a material adverse effect on our business. Our quarterly operating results may vary from quarter to quarter, which may result in increased volatility of our share price. We have experienced, and may in the future continue to experience, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. These fluctuations could reduce the market price of our common stock. Factors that may cause our quarterly operating results to vary include, but are not limited to: ● weather-related cultivation difficulties; ● legal fees related to ongoing litigation and any non-routine legal fees; ● fluctuations in customer demand; ● business decisions of our customers regarding orders for our products; ● changes in energy costs; ● changes in raw material costs; ● production problems which we cannot solve technically or economically; 10 ● contamination of our cultivation and production facilities; ● effects of weather on our ability to meet customer demand; ● timing of promotional activities; ● the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; ● changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; ● changes in seasonal and other trends in our customers’ buying patterns; ● changes in government regulation, both domestic and foreign; ● fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates; ● global economic and political conditions and related risks, including acts of terrorism; and ● other factors beyond our control. A significant portion of our expense levels are relatively fixed. If net sales are below expectations in any given period, the adverse impact on results of operations may be magnified by our inability to reduce expenses quickly enough to compensate for the sales shortfall. Our global operations expose us to complex management, foreign currency, legal, tax and economic risks, which we may not be able to address quickly and adequately. Our products are marketed in a number of countries around the world. For the year ended March 31, 2014, approximately 37% of our net sales were from sales to foreign customers. As a result, we are subject to a number of risks which include, but are not limited to: ● the burden of complying with a wide variety of national and local laws; ● potentially longer payment cycles for foreign sales; ● restrictions (government and otherwise) on the movement of cash; ● the absence in some jurisdictions of effective laws protecting our intellectual and proprietary property rights, or of enforcement of such laws where they do exist; ● changes in government regulations, both domestic and foreign; ● global economic and political conditions and related risks, including acts of terrorism; and ● fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or if we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others our business may be harmed. We currently have four United States patents in force: one on aspects of our production methods and three for use of our BioAstin® products. We regard our proprietary technology, trade secrets, trademarks and similar intellectual property as important and we rely on a combination of trade secret, contract, patent, copyright and trademark law to establish and protect our rights in our products and technology. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to protect our technology adequately or that competitors will not be able to develop similar technology independently. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Litigation in the United States or abroad may be necessary to enforce our patent or other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement. Such litigation, even if successful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, if any such claims are asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license under the third party’s intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance, however, that a license would be available on terms acceptable or favorable to us, if at all. 11 Our insurance liability coverage is limited and may not be adequate to cover potential losses. In the ordinary course of business, we purchase insurance coverage (e.g., property and liability coverage) to protect us against loss of or damage to our properties and claims made by third parties and employees for property damage or personal injuries. However, the protection provided by such insurance is limited in significant respects and, in some instances, we have no coverage and certain of our insurance policies have substantial “deductibles” or limits on the maximum amounts that may be recovered. For example, if a tsunami, earthquake or other catastrophic natural disaster should occur, we may not be able to recover all facility restoration costs and revenues lost from business interruption. In addition, we maintain product liability insurance in limited amounts for all of our products involving human consumption; however, broader product liability coverage is prohibitively expensive. Insurers have also introduced new exclusions or limitations of coverage for claims related to certain perils including, but not limited to, mold and terrorism. If a series of losses occurred, such as from a series of lawsuits in the ordinary course of business each of which were subject to the deductible amount, or if the maximum limit of the available insurance were substantially exceeded, we could incur losses in amounts that would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to develop and market new products or modify existing products and production methods may be adversely affected if we lose the services of or cannot replace certain employees knowledgeable in advanced scientific and other fields. Our products are derived from and depend on proprietary and non-proprietary processes and methods founded on advanced scientific knowledge, skills, and expertise. If the services of employees knowledgeable in these fields are lost and cannot be replaced in a reasonable time frame at reasonable costs, our ability to develop and market new products or modify existing products and production methods would be adversely impacted. At the same time, regulatory compliance surrounding our products and financial matters generally requires a basic knowledge and level of expertise related to production, quality assurance, and financial control. If we lose the services or cannot reasonably replace employees who have the necessary knowledge and expertise our ability to remain in regulatory compliance could be adversely affected. We may need to raise additional capital in the future which may not be available. We believe our cash and cash equivalents to be provided from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating requirements for at least the next 12 months, but we may need to raise additional funds and we may not be able to secure funding on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our then current stockholders may be reduced. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of convertible debt securities, or through additional debt or similar instruments, such securities, debt, or similar instruments could have rights senior to those of our common stockholders and such instruments could contain provisions restricting our operations. If adequate funds are not available to satisfy either short-term or long-term capital requirements, we may be required to limit operations with adverse results. We have incurred significant losses in the past. If we incur significant losses in the future, we will experience negative cash flow which may hamper current operations and prevent us from sustaining or expanding our business. As of March 31, 2014, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $9,154,000, primarily as a result of significant losses incurred during fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 of $1,139,000 and $7,425,000, respectively. The 2007 loss included a non-cash impairment loss on equipment and leasehold improvements of $4,487,000. These account for approximately 94% of our accumulated deficit since our inception. Historically, we have relied upon cash from operations and financing activities to fund all of the cash requirements of our business. However, extended periods of net income do not assure positive cash flows. Future periods of net losses from operations could result in negative cash flow, and may hamper ongoing operations and prevent us from sustaining or expanding our business. We cannot assure you that we will sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If we do not achieve, sustain or increase profitability, our business will be adversely affected and our stock price may decline. Our stock price is volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares of our common stock. Stock markets have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the average daily trading volume of the securities of small companies can be very low. Limited trading volume of our stock may contribute to its future volatility. Price declines in our common stock could result from general market and economic conditions and a variety of other factors, including any of the following: ● volatility resulting from minimal trading activity; ● changes in market valuations of similar companies; 12 ● stock market price and volume fluctuations generally; ● economic conditions specific to the nutritional products industry; ● economic conditions tied to global resource markets, such as fuel costs; ● announcements by us or our competitors of new or enhanced products or of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; ● fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; ● changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; ● changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting our product costs, pricing or our customers markets; ● regulatory developments effecting our specific products or industry; and ● additions or departures of key personnel. The price at which you purchase shares of our common stock may not be indicative of the price that will prevail later in the trading market. You may be unable to sell your shares of common stock at or above your purchase price, which may result in substantial losses to you. As of March 31, 2014, there were approximately 5.5 million shares of our common stock outstanding. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of our common stock into the public market will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of stock options, or in anticipation of such sales, may materially and adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Recent European Union regulations include stringent requirements for health claims on food and supplement labels. The European Union has harmonized standards among Member States for health claims on food and supplement labels. The scientific assessment of health claims is performed by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), an advisory panel to the European Commission. The European Commission will consider the opinions of EFSA in determining whether to include a health claim on a Positive List of permissible claims. Once the list is published, only health claims for ingredients and products included on the list may be used in promotional materials for products marketed and sold in the European Union. This could severely decrease or limit the marketability for our products in this market area. We have implemented strategies that we believe will allow for continued and increasing sales of our products in the European Union. However there can be no guarantee that such strategies will be successful. 