ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may effect our financial results, our accounting, and the accuracy of the forward making statements we make in this Form 10-K. We make statements regarding anticipated product introductions, changes in markets, customers and customer order rates, expenditures in research and development, growth in revenue, taxation levels, the effects of pricing, and the ability to continue to price foreign transactions in U.S. currency, all of which represent our expectations and beliefs about future events. Our actual results may vary from these expectations because of a number of factors that affect our business, the most important of which include the following: • The market for capital equipment for the electronics industry in which we operate is cyclical and we cannot predict with precision when market downturns will occur. We operate in a very cyclical market–the electronics capital equipment market. We have been unable to predict with accuracy the timing or magnitude of periodic downturns in this market. These downturns, particularly the severe downturn in electronics production markets from 2001 through 2003, have severely affected our operations in the past and generated several years of unprofitable operations. We may be unable to foresee additional changes in these markets before they affect our operations in the future. • World events beyond our control may effect our operations. Our operations and markets could be negatively affected by world events that effect economies and commerce in countries, such as China, Singapore and Japan, in which we do business. Natural disasters, such as the SARS outbreak, have affected travel patterns and accessibility in these countries in the past and other natural occurrences, such as a bird flu outbreak, could affect the business we do in these countries in the future. Further, these countries may be affected by economic forces that are different from the forces that affect the United States and change the amount of business we conduct. • We are dependent upon two customers for a significant amount of our revenue. We have been dependent on two original equipment manufacturer customers for a large portion of our revenue (49% in 2006, 44% in 2005 and 50% in 2004). Our operations were significantly negatively affected by reduced order rates from these two customers during 2001, 2002 and the first half of 2003, and were favorably impacted by increased order rates in the last half of 2003 and the first three quarters of 2004. Order rates for these customers continued to sequentially decline through the second quarter of 2005, and then started to sequentially increase in the third and fourth quarters of 2005, peaking in the first quarter of 2006. Order rates leveled off at lower, but still favorable levels, for the remainder of 2006. If these customers are unsuccessful selling the products into which our sensors are incorporated, design their products to function without our sensors, purchase sensors from other suppliers, or otherwise terminate their relationships with us, our results of operations would be significantly negatively affected. • We are dependent upon a single product line in our systems business for over a quarter of our revenue. During 2006, approximately 20% of our total revenue was generated by sales of a single SMT Systems product line, the SE 300, and SE 300 Ultra. Sales of these products have been subject to increasing competition in the Asian markets, negatively impacting our market share and sales prices for our products. If we are not successful in continuing to sell and differentiate this product line relative to our competition, our results of operations would be negatively affected. • We generate more than three quarters of our revenue (approximately 85% in 2006) from export sales that are subject to risks of international operations. Our export sales are subject to many of the risks of international operations including: • currency controls and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • changes in local market business requirements and increased cost and development time required to modify and translate our products for local markets; • inability to recruit qualified personnel in a specific country or region; • difficulty in establishing and maintaining relationships with local vendors; • differing foreign technical standards; • differing regulatory requirements; • export restrictions and controls, tariffs and other trade barriers; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights; • changes in political and economic conditions; • seasonal reductions in business activity; • potentially adverse tax assessments; and • terrorism, disease, or other events that may affect local economies and access. 11 Table of Contents • Because we price our products in US dollars, our products may have difficulty competing in periods of increasing strength of the dollar. All of our international export sales are negotiated, invoiced and paid in U.S. dollars, and accordingly, currency fluctuations do not affect our revenue and income per unit. However, significant fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies could have an impact on the price competitiveness of our products relative to foreign competitors, which could impact the willingness of customers to purchase our products and have an impact on our results of operations. • Our products could become obsolete. Our current products, as well as the products we have under development, are designed to operate with the technology we believe currently exists or may exist for electronic components, printed circuit boards and memory modules. The technology for these components changes rapidly and, because it takes considerable time to develop new products, we must anticipate technological developments in order to effectively compete. Further, because we do not have unlimited development resources, we might chose to forgo the pursuit of what becomes a leading technology and devote our resources to technology that is less successful. If we incorrectly anticipate technology developments, or have inadequate resources to develop our products to deal with changes in technology, our products could become obsolete. • We compete in the electronics assembly sensor market with larger companies. Our electronic assembly sensor products compete with products made by larger machine vision companies, other optical sensor companies, and by solutions internally developed by our customers. Advances in machine vision technology in recent years have eliminated some, but not all, of the features that have differentiated our products from some of these competitors. • The market for surface mount capital equipment has become very price competitive. The electronics capital equipment market for surface mount technologies is becoming more mature, resulting in increased price pressure on suppliers of equipment. Consequently, our electronic assembly system and sensor products have become subject to increased levels of price competition and competition from other suppliers and technologies, including suppliers in Asia who have specifically designed their products to compete favorably against our products. • Our systems products carry lower margins. We use a different distribution network to sell our end-user systems products, and generate lower margins from these products, than the distribution system and margins from our electronic assembly sensor and semiconductor products. To the extent our end-user systems constitute a larger portion of our business, our profit margins may be affected. • Competitors in Asia may be able to compete favorably with us based on lower production and employee costs. We compete with large multinational systems companies in sales of end-user systems products, many of which are able to take advantage of greater financial resources and larger sales distribution networks. We also compete with new Asian based suppliers of end-user systems products, many of which may have lower overall production and employee costs and are willing to offer their products at lower selling prices to customers. • We are dependent upon outside suppliers for components of our products, and delays in or unavailability of those components would adversely effect our results. We use outside contractors to manufacture the components used in many of our products and some of the components we order require significant lead times that could affect our ability to sell our products if not available. In addition, if these components do not meet stringent quality requirements or become subject to obsolescence, there could be delays in product availability, and we could be required to make significant investments in designing replacement components. • Our operations could be effected by lead-free regulations. New regulations have been enacted in various countries requiring the reduction of hazardous substances in electronics products and capital equipment in future years. New regulations are also increasing the obligations of manufacturers of electronics products and capital equipment to ensure proper disposal of their products when they are no longer being used by the customer. When effective, these regulations will impact production processes of our customers and require us to incorporate lead-free components into our products. If the production processes or our customers are interrupted, or we are not able to complete the transition to lead-free components in our products by the effective date of these regulations, our results of operations could be negatively affected. In addition the new regulations requiring us to ensure proper disposal of our products will increase our costs, and our results of operations could be negatively affected. 12 Table of Contents • Our growth has been dependent on technical innovation and is affected by the timing and success of product introductions. Although our results are cyclical, our objective is to grow revenue and profitability over the long term. Our growth has been in the past, and we anticipate that it will be in the future, dependent upon our ability to introduce new and innovative products. We plan to continue to introduce new products during fiscal 2007 and beyond. If those introductions are delayed, our revenue and profitability could be negatively affected. For example, we have devoted and continue to devote significant resources to complete development and commence sale of our embedded process verification (EPV) products. The introduction of these products has been delayed because of economic conditions affecting our customers, required adaptations for OEM requirements and other issues and these products have yet to generate substantial commercial sales. • The accuracy of our financial reporting is dependent on continued maintenance of adequate internal controls. Our ability to capture, process and report transactions in a timely and accurate manner in compliance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States is dependant upon the operation of our internal controls over financial reporting. Although we believe our controls, policies, practices and systems are adequate to ensure the integrity of our financial reporting, unanticipated and unauthorized actions of employees (both domestic and internationally), temporary lapses in internal controls due to shortfalls in transition planning and oversight, or resource constraints could lead to improprieties and undetected errors that could impact our financial condition or results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 