Item 1A. Risk Factors This report and the annual report to shareholders contain some forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Actual results and the timing of some events could differ materially from those projected in or contemplated by the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including, without limitation, those set forth below and elsewhere in this report. In addition to the other information in this report, the following factors, which may affect Healthaxis’ current position and future prospects, should be considered carefully in evaluating Healthaxis and an investment in its common stock. Business Related Risks Because we have a history of operating losses, it is difficult to evaluate our future prospects and to know when, if ever, Healthaxis will become consistently profitable. Our recent history of operating losses makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and to know when, if ever, we will become consistently profitable. Furthermore, our prospects should be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in new, unproven, competitive and rapidly evolving markets. While our cost reduction initiatives over the last few years have brought costs more in line with our revenue base, there can be no assurances that our cash resources will prove adequate, or that we will become consistently profitable. These uncertainties could negatively affect our business prospects and our stock price. We may seek additional debt or equity financing for items including but not limited to capital equipment purchases, working capital needs, or to refinance existing debt. Depending on the type of financing available, such financing may be dilutive to our common shareholders and may not be on attractive terms. A small number of clients account for a substantial portion of our business, and the loss of any one of them could have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition. The business of a limited number of our clients represents a significant component of our continuing operations. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our three largest clients (The Parker Group, HealthScope Benefits, and NCAS Inc.) accounted for an aggregate of 64% of revenues. Each year, we have several customers whose contracts are up for renewal. Historically, we have successfully renewed most contracts prior to their expiration and we have the benefit of working with some of our customers for more than twenty years. Some of our client contracts contain a fixed-price component or minimal start-up fees, and because we sometimes incur costs in excess of our projections, we could experience decreased operating margins or increased operating losses. Some of our client contracts contain a fixed-price component, typically involving the implementation of the contract specifications. This fixed price component is generally a small percentage of the total contract value. A lengthy implementation period for a large project makes it more difficult to accurately estimate the costs that we will incur. We can incur costs in excess of our projections and, as a result, could experience lower margins than expected or could incur losses with respect to a specific project. The nature of our fixed-price arrangements could result in decreased operating margins or increased operating losses, and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the start-up fees we are able to collect on certain contracts are minimal and may not cover the cost of implementation. 13 Our competitors may be more successful in attracting customers, which could result in decreased sales, a loss of revenue and a decrease in the value of our common stock. We compete with a number of competitors in each of our product and market areas. We also compete with the internal information resources and systems of some of our prospective and existing clients. Our competitors could develop or offer solutions superior to those we offer. Some of our current and potential competitors are larger, better capitalized, have greater financial and operating resources and greater market share than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to changes in customer requirements or preferences. They may also be able to devote greater resources to claims processing services or to the development, promotion and sale of their products. Undetected errors in our application solutions or our data capture services could detract from the reliability and quality of our information systems, which, in turn, could result in decreased sales, liability for damage claims and a negative impact on our results of operations. In the course of client acceptance testing, Healthaxis historically has experienced few application solutions errors. However, application solutions may contain undetected errors. These errors may result in loss of data, or a reduction in the ability to process transactions on a timely basis, which could result in the loss of existing business and future business, as well as the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of Healthaxis’ application solutions. We have attempted to limit contractually, and through insurance coverage, damages arising from negligent acts, errors, mistakes or omissions in our application solutions, or in rendering services such as data capture. However, these contractual protections could be unenforceable or insufficient to protect us from liability for damages in connection with the successful assertion of one or more large lawsuits. Our future success significantly depends on the experience of our executive officers and key personnel, and the departure of several of them could impair our ability to do business and otherwise negatively impact the price of our common stock. Our future success depends, in significant part, upon the continued services of our executive officers and key personnel. The loss of services of several of our executive officers or key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our executive officers or key personnel. We presently have employment agreements with four of our executives and although these agreements have standard protective provisions, there can be no assurance that these executives will remain with the Company through the terms of the agreements. We do not have employment agreements with any other key personnel. Our reliance on third party vendors could place us at risk for increased expenses, failure to meet our contractual obligations, and/or lost clients. We rely in part upon third party vendors for the delivery of some of the services we contract to deliver to our clients. We have alternatives in each case, but the alternatives could be expensive and time consuming to implement. If any of these vendors ceased providing the product or service on which we rely, our business could be interrupted until such time as we are able to replace the product or service and integrate it with our own product and service offering. Such interruptions could be in violation of our service level commitments to our customers. The key third party vendors on which we rely include: 14 · Emdeon (formerly Advanced Business Fulfillment) and AdminiSource — unaffiliated vendors which print and mail the majority of output from our claims system, namely beneficiary checks, explanation of benefits and letters. · Gentran — which supplies software that supports our ability to receive and transmit transactions and files electronically. · Navisite — which provides our data center facilities. · IBM — which provides critical hardware and operating system components used by our systems. · Healthcare BPO Partners — which provides personnel and infrastructure that is utilized by the Company to provide business process outsourcing services and other software development and technical support services to support the Company’s operations. Healthcare BPO Partners is a related party due to common ownership by one of the Company’s significant shareholders. · Ingenix — which provides usual and customary databases that are integrated with our Insur-Claims system and used by our customers for determining the reasonableness of a healthcare provider’s fees. · McKesson — which provides certain clinical logic and claims editing functionality used by our customers in the processing of health insurance claims. · Microsoft — which provides operating system and applications software used by our systems. · Navisite/Level3, Verizon/MCI, Netlojix and AT&T — which provide telecommunication lines and Internet gateways through which we connect to our clients. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, our competitors could use our proprietary technology to compete against us, which could negatively impact our revenues and otherwise result in our engaging in costly litigation. Our success depends to some extent on our ability to protect the proprietary and confidential aspects of our solutions and the tradenames associated with them. Our solutions are not patented, and existing copyright laws offer only limited practical protection. The legal protections afforded to us, or the precautions we take, may be inadequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or the tradenames associated with our solutions. Any infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary solutions or the related tradenames could have the effect of allowing competitors to use our proprietary information to compete against us, or result in costly litigation in order to protect our rights. In addition, these limited protections do not prevent independent third-party development of functionally equivalent or superior technologies, products, or services. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims that could result in costly litigation and losses or decreased revenues. Although we have no reason to believe at this time that we are subject to any intellectual property infringement claims, as competing healthcare information systems increase in complexity and overall capabilities, and the functionality of these systems further overlap, we could be subject to claims that our technology infringes on the proprietary rights of third parties. These claims, even if without merit, could subject us to costly litigation 15 and could command the time and attention of our technical, legal, and management teams to defend. Further, if a court determined that we infringed on the intellectual property rights of a third party, we could be required to: · Develop non-infringing technology or tradenames; · Obtain a license to the intellectual property; · Stop selling the applications or using names that contain the infringing intellectual property, or pay substantial damage awards. If we cannot develop non-infringing technology or tradenames, or obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, any of the above listed potential court-ordered requirements could adversely impact our operations and revenues. Our failure to meet performance standards described in our service agreements could result in the termination of those agreements, the loss of other business and the imposition of penalties, any of which, in turn, could lead to decreased revenues and larger losses. Many of our service agreements contain performance standards. Although we are unaware of any circumstances of material non-performance, Healthaxis could fail to meet some contractual performance standards related to turnaround times, availability, and quality standards set forth in its service agreements. Our failure to meet these standards could result in the eventual termination of these agreements, as well as financial penalties from current clients and decreased sales to potential clients. These penalties range from less than 1% to amounts that could be in excess of 50% of the aggregate amount payable under these agreements in certain circumstances. If we are unable to maintain performance standards, we could experience decreased sales, decreased revenues, and continued losses. Our Jamaican operations could subject us to additional risks, including problems enforcing legal rights, expropriation, political or social instability, labor difficulties and tropical storms. If we encounter any of these problems in Jamaica, it is possible that our operations would be disrupted, that we would incur higher expenses and that we could fail to meet our contractual obligations owed to customers and other third parties. We conduct imaging and data capture operations related to the conversion of insurance claims information to electronic form in Jamaica through an indirect subsidiary. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we earned approximately 7% of our total revenues from our Jamaican operations. There is less government regulation in Jamaica than in the United States, and there may be more difficulty in enforcing Jamaican legal rights. Additionally, there is the possibility, although remote, of expropriation or confiscatory taxation, limitations on the removal of property or other assets, political or social instability, labor difficulties, or diplomatic developments that could affect our Jamaican operations and assets. While these factors have not to date had a material adverse impact on our business, if an adverse event occurred, it could materially disrupt our business operations, jeopardizing our ability to meet our contractual obligations and lead to higher expenses. The proximity of our Jamaican operation to the ocean-front could expose our facility to damage from a tropical storm or other natural catastrophe. While we maintain insurance coverage on the facility and have also established back-up and business continuity plans, we could experience downtime and could incur additional expenses related to relocation or repair of the facility, should this occur. 16 Currently, our Jamaican subsidiary is able to take advantage of the Jamaican labor market, which provides competent and inexpensive labor. As of December 31, 2007, our Jamaican subsidiary had approximately 77 employees. If the risks or problems posed by conducting operations in Jamaica require significant financial or managerial resources, or we are forced to relocate these operations on-shore or elsewhere off shore, our costs to reestablish these services could increase. Our current and prospective customers may become reluctant to allow us to perform processing services in our Jamaican facility or through our India operations, thereby forcing us to relocate these services on-shore, which could increase our costs. We conduct imaging and data capture operations related to the conversion of insurance claims information to electronic form in Jamaica through an indirect subsidiary and in India through Healthcare BPO Partners. There is a continuing political debate regarding the offshore outsourcing of jobs that could be performed in the United States. Certain of our customers or prospective customers could become reluctant to allow their processing to be performed in Jamaica or India. As a result, we could lose sales or be forced to relocate these operations on-shore, in which case our costs to provide these services could increase. Acquisitions, which are part of our long-term business strategy, involve inherent risks that could compromise the success of our business and dilute the holdings of current shareholders. As part of our long-term business strategy, we intend to consider and potentially pursue acquisitions of similar or complementary businesses to capitalize on the rapidly growing and fragmented health insurance claims services outsourcing market and to create a business process services company of breadth and scale. If we are not correct when we assess the value, strengths, weaknesses, liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates, or if we are not successful in integrating the operations of the acquired businesses, the success of the combined business could be compromised. Any future acquisitions will be accompanied by the risks commonly associated with acquisitions. These risks include, among others, potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies and to acquisition costs and expenses; the difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies; the potential disruption to the business of the combined company and potential diversion of management’s time and attention; the impairment of relationships with and the possible loss of key employees and clients as a result of potential changes in management; potential future write-downs related to goodwill impairment in connection with acquisitions; and dilution to the shareholders of the combined company if the acquisition is financed partially or wholly with Healthaxis stock. In addition, asset classes, technologies or businesses of acquired companies may not be effectively assimilated into our business or have a positive effect on the combined company’s revenues or earnings. The combined company may also incur significant expense to complete acquisitions and to support the acquired asset classes and businesses. Further, any such acquisitions may be funded with cash, debt or equity, or we may seek financing for other purposes, any of which could have the effect of diluting the holdings or limiting the rights of shareholders. Depending upon the nature and structure of such acquisitions and financings, our shareholders may or may not be required to approve such acquisitions and financings. In some limited circumstances, our preferred shareholders would have the right to vote separately as a class on some mergers and consolidations that we may desire to pursue. Finally, we may not be successful in identifying attractive acquisition candidates or completing acquisitions on favorable terms. In order to achieve and maintain compliance with federal securities regulations, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the corporate governance rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market, we are required to expend financial and managerial resources that increase our expense. 17 As a public company, we are incurring significant additional legal, accounting and other expenses. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and The NASDAQ Stock Market, required numerous changes in the practices of public companies. These new rules and regulations have resulted in increased legal and financial compliance costs and management efforts, and we expect those costs and efforts to continue to increase, particularly in connection with our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We cannot predict or estimate the additional costs we may incur, but these additional costs and demands on management time and attention may harm our business and results of operations. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls in the future, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, investors may lose confidence in our financial reporting. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Among other things, we must perform systems and processes evaluation and testing. We must also conduct an assessment of our internal controls to allow management to report on our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are required to provide management’s assessment of internal controls in conjunction with the filing of this report and we expect that we and other non-accelerated filers will be required to provide an auditor’s attestation on our internal controls as of December 31, 2009, in the Form 10-K to be filed in the first quarter of 2010. In the future, our continued assessment, or the assessment by our independent registered public accounting firm, could reveal significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls, which may need to be disclosed in future Annual Reports on Form 10-K. We believe, at the current time, that we are taking all appropriate steps to mitigate these risks. However, potential disclosures of this type could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we have deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting, it may negatively impact our business and operations. We are exploring a range of strategic options that we may or may not pursue and that may disrupt our operations or otherwise yield unforeseen results. In December 2007, we announced that we are in the process of exploring various strategic options designed to best enhance the value of the Company. Those options may include, but are not limited to, a sale or merger of the Company with a larger organization. There can be no assurance that any particular strategic option will be pursued or that any transaction will occur, or on what terms. If we continue to execute our operating plan instead of pursuing a strategic option, our stock price could decline. In addition, we may be unsuccessful in implementing an option that is chosen by our Board of Directors or we may implement an option that yields unexpected results. The process of continuing to review, and potentially executing, strategic options may be very costly and time-consuming and may distract our management and otherwise disrupt our operations, which could have an adverse effect of our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Internet and Health Insurance Industry Related Risks The substantial time required for us to convert a business opportunity into revenue depresses our potential near term growth rate. Like other companies in the health information technology industry and business process outsourcing industry, it takes us a substantial amount of time to bid for the business of a new client, win the business of a new client, and, finally, convert that business into revenue. These time lags mean that even if we are successful in winning new client business, we may not benefit from the revenues derived from that business for several months. This lag in revenue realization may dampen our near-term potential growth rates. When we provide web-based solutions, we are exposed to potential Internet access problems, which could adversely affect some of our software hosting services and negatively impact our operating results. Some of our solutions rely on Internet access and are, therefore, subject to a number of risks, including risks associated with disruptions, delays or losses due to technical difficulties, natural causes, viruses or security breaches. These problems could adversely affect the success of some of our software hosting services because our ability to deliver these services to clients is dependent on the use of the Internet as a medium of effective communication. If we were to encounter these problems, we could lose revenues from clients or potential clients and could also incur additional costs, which would negatively impact our operating results. Changes in the regulation or taxation of the Internet could depress our revenues and increase our operating expenses. The Internet is subject to the risk of changing government regulation. A number of legislative and regulatory proposals are under consideration by federal, state, local and foreign governments and agencies. In particular, we could be subject to the governmental adoption of regulations that charge Internet access fees or impose taxes on subscriptions. Laws or regulations may also be adopted relating to liability for information retrieved from or transmitted over the Internet, on line content regulation, user privacy and the quality of products and services. New legal requirements or interpretations applicable to the Internet could depress our revenues through limitations on the use of the Internet for our solutions or prohibitions on the sale of a particular solution, increase our cost of doing business, or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. In order to maintain compliance with applicable insurance regulations, we may need to expend financial and managerial resources that could increase our expenses. The insurance industry is highly regulated and the regulations that govern our clients are subject to change. Changes in these regulations could require us to expend additional financial and managerial resources to revise our products and services in order to comply. If our software is not in compliance with HIPAA, then we could lose business; and if our internal operations are not HIPAA-compliant, then we could face possible liability claims. We believe that we have met the HIPAA requirements currently in effect that are applicable to our internal operations and our clients. However, if we are unable to deliver applications solutions that achieve or maintain compliance with the applicable HIPAA rules in effect, or as they may be modified or implemented in the future, then clients could move business to other applications solutions providers whose systems are, or will be, HIPAA-compliant. As a result, our business could suffer. If our internal operations are not HIPAA-compliant, then we 19 could also face contractual or potential other liability to the extent our business associate and other obligations require compliance. Certain states may also impose direct liability in the form of civil penalties for our failure to be HIPAA-compliant. In the event that we lose business to competitors, or are required to pay amounts as a result of contractual or other liability claims, the market price of our common stock could decline. The insolvency of our customers, or the inability of our customers to pay for our services, would adversely affect our revenues and, hence, our results of operations. Health insurance payer organizations are often required to maintain restricted cash reserves and satisfy strict balance sheet ratios promulgated by state regulatory agencies. Although this has not been a problem in the past, if insurance payer organizations are unable to pay for our services because of their need to maintain cash reserves or failure to maintain balance sheet ratios or solvency, our ability to collect fees for services rendered would be impaired, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. The consolidation of health insurance payer organizations and benefits administrators could decrease the number or the size of our existing and potential customers, which could depress our revenue prospects. There has been, and continues to be, acquisition and consolidation activity between insurance payer organizations and benefits administrators. Mergers or consolidations of payer organizations and / or benefits administrators in the future could decrease the number or the size of our existing and potential customers. A smaller market for our products and services could depress our revenue prospects. Changes in government regulation of the healthcare industry could increase our expenses and otherwise adversely affect our clients’ businesses, which could, in turn, adversely affect our business. During the past several years, the healthcare industry has been subject to increasing levels of government regulation of, among other things, reimbursement rates and some capital expenditures. In addition, proposals to reform the healthcare system have been considered by Congress. These proposals, if enacted, may further increase government involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates and otherwise adversely affect the healthcare industry or dramatically change the overall model for funding and administering health care costs, which could adversely impact our clients’ business and which could, in turn, adversely affect our business. The impact of regulatory developments in the healthcare industry is followed closely by us and by our retained legal counsel. However regulatory changes are complex and difficult to predict, and our business could be adversely affected by existing or new healthcare regulatory requirements or interpretations. In addition, laws governing healthcare payers and benefits administrators are often not uniform among states. This could require us to undertake the expense and difficulty of tailoring our products and services in order for our customers to be in compliance with applicable newly enacted state and local laws and regulations, which could increase our cost of doing business 20 Capital Structure and Trading Market Risks The shares of common stock and warrants to purchase shares of common stock currently held by Tak Investments, Inc. (“Tak Investments”) could enable Tak Investments to significantly influence or control the outcome of shareholder votes and otherwise pursue control transactions involving us. As a result of a financing transaction closed in May 2005, Tak Investments currently owns 2,222,222 of our outstanding shares of common stock, representing 25% of the Company’s outstanding voting shares of common stock as of March 20, 2008 and beneficially owns 5,555,556, or 46% of the Company’s fully diluted shares of common stock. Further, if the warrants held by Tak Investments are fully exercised for the maximum number of shares of common stock provided thereunder, but no other common equivalents are exercised or converted into shares of common stock, Tak Investments would own 56% of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock. Based on Tak Investments’ownership block, it is able to exert substantial influence over, and could actually control, the outcome of common shareholder votes. The Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law (or PBCL) contains provisions designed to protect the company and its shareholders from certain takeover transactions. Specifically, sections of the PBCL prohibit a person that acquires beneficial ownership of 20% or more of the voting power of a publicly held Pennsylvania corporation (such as Healthaxis), a so-called “interested shareholder,” from engaging in a business combination transaction with such a corporation, except in certain circumstances. A purpose of the statute is to prevent coercive second step transactions at an inadequate price to the other shareholders of the corporation. However, because our board of directors approved the financing transaction that we entered into with Tak Investments, the PBCL business combination statute will not prohibit a business transaction between us and Tak Investments. No such transaction has been proposed to date, however Tak Investments could initiate a takeover transaction involving us, and we would not be able to use the PBCL business combination statute to prevent such a transaction. Further, we have agreed with our preferred shareholders that we will not, for a period of time, establish a shareholder rights plan, “poison pill” or similar anti-takeover arrangements. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — “Overview” for further information regarding both the Company’s business relationship with Tak Investments and the preferred shareholders. Tak Investments’ contractual relationships with us subject our common shareholders to certain risks. In addition to the risks to our common shareholders arising out of Tak Investments’ substantial beneficial ownership of our common stock, as long as Tak Investments maintains the required level of stock ownership specified in the Investor Rights Agreement entered into by the Company and Tak Investments, Tak Investments will have the right to nominate between one and three members to the Company’s Board of Directors, and will therefore be able to exert significant influence over the Company’s business. In addition, Tak Investments holds a warrant to purchase 3,333,333 shares of our common stock, which may be exercised at any time prior to the second anniversary of the date of registration with the SEC of the resale of such shares and other shares beneficially owned by Tak Investments. We are also required to obtain the consent of Tak Investments prior to selling the Company or effecting certain other fundamental corporate activities until the second anniversary of the date of registration for resale of such shares and other shares beneficially owned by Tak Investments. To date, we have not yet completed the registration of the shares of common stock covered by the aforementioned warrant and some other shares beneficially owned by Tak Investments, so we do not yet know when the aforementioned warrant or consent rights will expire. Simultaneously with our closing of the financing transactions with Tak Investments in May 2005, we also entered into a five-year Remote Resourcing Agreement with Healthcare BPO Partners L.P., a company affiliated with Tak Investments and owned by Mr. Sharad Tak. Under the terms of this agreement, Healthcare BPO 21 Partners is providing India-based personnel and infrastructure that we use to provide business process outsourcing services and other software development and technical support services to support our operations. Although we directly manage these personnel resources in accordance with our policies and procedures, these India-based operations are subject to the risks of non-US operations, similar to those faced by our Jamaica operations. The registration of the resale of the shares of a substantial amount of shares of our common stock by Tak Investments and by other shareholders entails some risks, including the fact that the sale of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the possibility of these sales, could depress or lower our stock price. We currently have effective registration statements on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission providing for the registration of the resale of a substantial number of our shares of common stock. In addition, and as referenced above, we have not yet completed the registration for resale of all the shares of common stock that are beneficially owned by Tak Investments. The aggregate number of shares of our common stock that are currently, or in the future may be registered for resale is very significant and these shares are and will be fully eligible for resale in the public market. The sale of such shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress or lower our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 