ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in shares of our common stock involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following risk factors before deciding to invest or maintain an investment in shares of our stock. This annual report contains or incorporates by reference forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in the following risk factors and elsewhere in this annual report. If any of the following risks actually occurs, it is likely that our business, financial condition and operating results would be harmed. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. · We have limited cash resources available to continue our operations and execute our business plan. Accordingly, if we are unable to raise needed capital in the future, we may be unable to fund operating cash shortfalls or effectively pursue our business plan. · We have a history of losses and an accumulated deficit that may continue in the future and that may adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, and stock price. · Any business combination or acquisition that we complete will likely be dilutive to our existing stockholders. · The market price for our common stock may be adversely affected as a result of financing or acquisition transactions or as a result of various other factors. · Our business and strategic plans for 2009 are likely to be negatively impacted by the current severe financial crises and resulting poor business environment. · The financial health of some of our customers and other third parties with whom we do business may be at risk, and we may therefore see declines in business with our customers and disruptions in our relationships with other third parties. · We are subject to uncertainties regarding our ability to continue as a going concern, particularly in light of the conclusions raised by our independent auditors in this regard. · Particularly in light of the current crises in the capital markets, there are uncertainties regarding our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing to the extent needed for our continued operations or to execute our business plan. · Our ability to successfully implement our business plans and to pursue strategic acquisitions are subject to some uncertainties. · We are subject to uncertainties regarding our ability to attract and retain strategic partners and alliances. · Our ability to effectively integrate recent and future acquisitions is subject to a number of uncertainties. · We may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property. · We are exposed to risks associated with existing and future governmental regulation to which we are subject. -9- · Uncertainties relating to economic conditions in the markets in which we currently operate and in which we intend to operate in the future subject us to a number of risks. · Our success in our continuing operations depends, in part, on our ability to retain our current management team. · The markets in which we currently compete will continue to be highly competitive, which has resulted in significant price competition and may result in reduced revenues or loss of market share. · Our operating results may be adversely affected by exchange rate fluctuations. · Changing technology may render our product and service offerings obsolete and, therefore, unmarketable. · Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares of our common stock and in litigation against us. · Our common stock is very thinly traded and our stock price may therefore be subject to extreme volatility. · The concentration of ownership of our common stock and preferred stock gives a few individuals significant influence over important policy decisions and could delay or prevent changes of control. · Our common stock may be considered a “penny stock” and may thereby be subject to additional sale and trading regulations that may make it more difficult to sell. · The conversion of shares of our preferred stock or exercise of outstanding options or warrants will increase the number of issued shares of common stock, reduce each then existing stockholder’s percent of ownership, and may dilute our share value. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 