ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThe statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our disclosure and analysis in this Form 10-K and in our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders contain some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “objective,” “goal,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will,” “should,” “may,” “target,” “forecast,” “guidance,” “outlook,” and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, forward-looking statements include statements relating to future actions, future performance, or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated, or projected results set forth in the forward-looking statements. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date thereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K filed with the SEC. 5 Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions relevant to our businesses. There can be no assurances that we have correctly and completely identified, assessed, and accounted for all factors that do or may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we presently believe to be immaterial also may adversely impact us. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Consequently, all of the forward-looking statements are qualified by these cautionary statements, and there can be no assurance that the results or developments we anticipate will be realized or that they will have the expected effects on our business or operations. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Our ability to achieve the results contemplated by forward-looking statements is subject to a number of factors, any one, or a combination, of which could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. These factors may include, but are not limited to: The current economic conditions (including falling home prices, high levels of unemployment, foreclosures on mortgages, bankruptcies, and reduced access to credit) give rise to risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our capital resources, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity including, but not limited to the following: Fluctuating commodity prices, including but not limited to diesel fuel and other fuels used to generate power by utilities, may affect our gross profit and operating profit margins. The impact of these conditions on our vendors’ businesses cannot be predicted. Our vendors may be negatively impacted due to insufficient availability of credit to fund their operations or insufficient demand for their products, which may affect their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. Our expectations regarding the demand for our merchandise may be inaccurate, which could cause us to under buy or over buy certain categories or departments of merchandise, which could result in customer dissatisfaction or excessive markdowns required to sell through the merchandise. The reaction of our competitors to the marketplace, including the level of liquidations occurring at bankrupt retailers, may drive our competitors, some of whom are better capitalized than us, to offer significant discounts or promotions on their merchandise, which could negatively affect our sales and profit margins. A downgrade in our credit rating could negatively affect our ability to access capital or increase the borrowing rates we pay. A significant decline in the market value of our qualified defined benefit pension plan’s (“Pension Plan”) investment portfolios may affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Additionally, many of the effects and consequences of the financial market uncertainties and broad economic downturn are currently unknown and beyond our control; any one or all of them could potentially have a material adverse impact on our capital resources, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. If we are unable to continue to successfully execute our operating strategies, our operating performance could be significantly impacted. There is a risk that we will be unable to continue to meet or exceed our operating performance targets and goals in the future if our strategies and initiatives are unsuccessful. In 2010, we announced operating performance targets and goals as part of an updated strategic plan, that we intend to use as our roadmap for the next three years (see the accompanying MD&A for additional information concerning our operating strategy). The new plan includes a continued focus on merchandising, real estate, and cost structure. 6 If we are unable to compete effectively in the highly competitive discount retail industry, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. The discount retail business is highly competitive. As discussed in Item 1 of this Form 10-K, we compete for customers, employees, products, real estate, and other aspects of our business with a number of other companies. Certain of our competitors have greater financial, distribution, marketing, and other resources than us. It is possible that increased competition or improved performance by our competitors may reduce our market share, gross margin, and operating margin, and may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations in other ways. Declines in general economic condition, consumer spending levels, and other conditions could lead to reduced consumer demand for our merchandise thereby materially adversely affecting our revenues and gross margin. Our results of operations can be directly impacted by the health of the United States’ economy. Our business and financial performance may be adversely impacted by current and future economic conditions, including factors that may restrict or otherwise negatively impact consumer financing, disposable income levels, unemployment levels, energy costs, interest rates, recession, inflation, the impact of natural disasters and terrorist activities, and other matters that influence consumer spending. The economies of four states (Ohio, Texas, California, and Florida) are particularly important as approximately 36% of our current stores operate in these states and 38% of our 2009 net sales occurred in these states. Changes by vendors related to the management of their inventories may reduce the quantity and quality of brand-name closeout merchandise available to us or may increase our cost to acquire brand-name closeout merchandise, either of which may materially adversely affect our revenues and gross margin. The products we sell are sourced from a variety of vendors with approximately half of our merchandise assortment being pre-planned and made for us and approximately half of our merchandise sourced on a closeout basis. The portion of our assortment that is pre-planned and made for us consists of imported merchandise (primarily furniture, seasonal, and portions of our home categories along with certain other classifications like toys) or merchandise that is re-orderable upon demand. For the closeout component of our business, we do not control the supply, design, function, availability, or cost of many of the products that we offer for sale. We depend upon the sufficient availability of closeout merchandise that we can acquire and offer at prices that represent a value to our customers, in order to meet or exceed our operating performance targets for gross margin. In addition, we rely on our vendors to provide us with quality merchandise. To the extent that certain of our vendors are better able to manage their inventory levels and reduce the amount of their excess inventory, the amount of closeout merchandise available to us could be materially reduced. Shortages or disruptions in the availability of closeout merchandise of a quality acceptable to our customers and us, would likely have a material adverse effect on our sales and gross margin and may result in customer dissatisfaction. We rely on vendors located in foreign countries for significant amounts of merchandise. Additionally, a significant amount of our domestically-purchased merchandise is manufactured abroad. Our business may be materially adversely affected by risks associated with international trade. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in driving higher gross margin. During 2009, we purchased approximately 25% of our products directly from overseas vendors including 19% from vendors located in China. Our ability to find qualified vendors and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced outside of the United States. Global sourcing and foreign trade involve numerous factors and uncertainties beyond our control including increased import duties, increased shipping costs, more restrictive quotas, loss of "most favored nation" trading status, currency and exchange rate fluctuations, work stoppages, transportation delays, economic uncertainties such as inflation, foreign government regulations, political unrest, natural disasters, war, terrorism, trade restrictions (including retaliation by the United States against foreign practices), political instability, the financial stability of vendors, merchandise quality issues, and tariffs. These and other issues affecting our international vendors could materially adversely affect our business and financial performance. 7 Disruption to our distribution network, the capacity of our distribution centers, and the timely receipt of merchandise inventory could adversely affect our operating performance. We rely on the ability to replenish depleted merchandise inventory through deliveries to our distribution centers and from the distribution centers to our stores by various means of transportation, including shipments by sea, rail and truck carriers. A decrease in the capacity of carriers and/or labor strikes or shortages in the transportation industry could negatively affect our distribution network, the timely receipt of merchandise and transportation costs. In addition, long-term disruptions to the national and international transportation infrastructure from wars, political unrest, terrorism, natural disasters and other significant events that lead to delays or interruptions of service could adversely affect our business. Also, a fire, earthquake, or other disaster at one of our distribution centers could disrupt our timely receiving, processing and shipment of merchandise to our stores which could adversely affect our business. As we continue to grow, we may face increased or unexpected demands on distribution center operations, as well as unexpected demands on our distribution network. In addition, new store locations receiving shipments that are increasingly further away from our distribution centers will increase transportation costs and may create transportation scheduling strains. Our inability to properly manage our inventory levels and offer merchandise that our customers want may materially adversely impact our business and financial performance. We must maintain sufficient inventory levels to operate our business successfully. However, we also must guard against accumulating excess inventory as we seek to maintain appropriate in-stock levels. As stated above, we obtain approximately a quarter of our merchandise from vendors outside of the United States. These foreign vendors often require lengthy advance notice of our requirements in order to be able to supply products in the quantities that we request. This usually requires us to order merchandise and enter into purchase order contracts for the purchase and manufacture of such merchandise well in advance of the time these products are offered for sale. As a result, we may experience difficulty in responding to a changing retail environment, which makes us vulnerable to changes in price and in consumer preferences. In addition, even though the lead time to obtain domestically-sourced merchandise is less, we attempt to maximize our gross margin and operating efficiency by delivering proper quantities of merchandise to our stores in a timely manner. If we do not accurately anticipate future demand for a particular product or the time it will take to replenish inventory levels, our inventory levels may not be appropriate and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. Changes in federal or state legislation and regulations, including the effects of legislation and regulations on product safety, could increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our operating performance. We are exposed to the risk that new federal or state legislation, including new product safety laws and regulations, may negatively impact our operations and adversely affect our operating performance. For example, the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 addresses a number of consumer product safety issues, including the permissible levels of lead and phthalates in certain products. Additional changes in product safety legislation or regulations may lead to product recalls and the disposal or write-off of merchandise, as well as fines or penalties and reputational damage. If our merchandise, including food and consumable products, do not meet applicable governmental safety standards or our customers’ expectations regarding quality or safety, we could experience lost sales, increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. Our inability to comply on a timely basis with regulatory requirements, or execute product recalls in a timely manner, could result in fines or penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, negative customer perceptions regarding the safety of the products we sell could cause us to lose market share to our competitors. If this occurs, it may be difficult for us to regain lost sales. We may be subject to periodic litigation and regulatory proceedings, including Fair Labor Standards Act and state wage and hour class action lawsuits, which may adversely affect our business and financial performance. From time to time, we may be involved in lawsuits and regulatory actions, including various collective or class action lawsuits that are brought against us for alleged violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act and state wage and hour laws. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we may not be able to accurately determine the impact on us of any future adverse outcome of such proceedings. The ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. In addition, regardless of the outcome, these proceedings could result in substantial cost to us and may require us to devote substantial resources to defend ourselves. For a description of certain current legal proceedings, see note 10 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 8 We may be subject to risks associated with changes in laws, regulations, and accounting standards that may adversely affect our business and financial performance. Changes in governmental regulations and accounting standards, including new interpretations and applications of accounting standards, may have adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. The bankruptcy of our formerly owned KB Toys business may adversely affect our business and financial performance. In December 2000, we sold the KB Toys business to KB Acquisition Corporation. On January 14, 2004, KB Acquisition Corporation and certain affiliated entities (collectively “KB-I”) filed for bankruptcy protection pursuant to Chapter 11 of title 11 of the United States Code. On August 30, 2005, in connection with the acquisition by an affiliate of Prentice Capital Management of majority ownership of KB-I, KB-I emerged from their January 14, 2004 bankruptcy (the KB Toys business that emerged from bankruptcy is hereinafter referred to as “KB-II”). On December 11, 2008, KB-II filed for bankruptcy protection pursuant to Chapter 11 of title 11 of the United States Code. Based on information we have received subsequent to the December 11, 2008 bankruptcy filing, we believe we may have indemnification and guarantee obligations (“KB-II Bankruptcy Lease Obligations”) with respect to 31 KB Toys store leases and a lease for a former KB corporate office. Because of uncertainty inherent in the assumptions used to estimate this liability, our estimated liability could ultimately prove to be understated and could result in a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. For additional information regarding the KB Toys bankruptcies, see note 11 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. A significant decline in our operating profit and taxable income may impair our ability to realize the value of our long-lived assets and deferred tax assets. We are required by accounting rules to periodically assess our property and equipment and deferred tax assets for impairment and recognize an impairment loss or valuation charge, if necessary. In performing these assessments, we use our historical financial performance to determine whether we have potential impairments or valuation concerns and as evidence to support our assumptions about future financial performance. If our financial performance significantly declines, it could negatively affect the results of our assessments of the recoverability of our property and equipment and our deferred tax assets. There is a risk that if our future operating results significantly decline, it could impair our ability to recover the value of our property and equipment and deferred tax assets. Impairment or valuation charges taken against property and equipment and deferred tax assets could be material and could have a material adverse impact on our capital resources, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity (see the discussion under the caption “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in the accompanying MD&A in this Form 10-K for additional information regarding our accounting policies for long-lived assets and income taxes). Our inability, if any, to comply with the terms of the 2009 Credit Agreement may have a material adverse effect on our capital resources, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. We have the ability to borrow funds under the 2009 Credit Agreement and we utilize this ability at various times depending on operating or other cash flow requirements. The 2009 Credit Agreement contains financial and other covenants, including, but not limited to, limitations on indebtedness, liens, and investments, as well as the maintenance of two financial ratios – a leverage ratio and a fixed charge coverage ratio. A violation of these covenants may permit the lenders to restrict our ability to further access loans and letters of credit and may require the immediate repayment of any outstanding loans. If we are not in compliance with these covenants, it may have a material adverse effect on our capital resources, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. 9 If we are unable to maintain or upgrade our information systems and software programs or if we are unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner, our operations may be disrupted or become less efficient. We depend on a variety of information systems for the efficient functioning of our business. We rely on certain software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that we can continue to support our business. The software programs supporting many of our systems were licensed to us by independent software developers. Costs and potential interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of our existing systems could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our business. If we are unable to successfully execute our SAP® for Retail system implementation, our operations may be disrupted or become less efficient. In January 2008, we announced our plans to implement SAP® for Retail solutions over the next few years. New financial systems, including general ledger, accounts payable and fixed assets, were developed and tested during 2008 and 2009. The new financial systems have been placed in service in 2010. A new core merchandising system is planned for development and testing in 2010 and 2011, with plans to place the new core merchandising system in service when testing has been completed. The implementation of these systems is expected to have a pervasive impact on our information systems and across a significant portion of our general office operations, including merchandising, technology, and finance. If we are unable to successfully implement SAP® for Retail, it may have an adverse effect on our capital resources, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. If we are unable to retain existing and secure suitable new store locations under favorable lease terms, our financial performance may be negatively affected. We lease almost all of our stores and a significant number of these leases expire or are up for renewal each year. Our strategy to improve our financial performance includes sales growth while managing the occupancy cost of each of our stores. A component of our sales growth strategy is to open new store locations. If we are not able to negotiate favorable new store leases and lease renewals, our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity may be negatively affected. If we are unable to secure customer, employee, and company data, our reputation could be damaged and we could be subject to penalties or lawsuits. The protection of our customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements across our business. In addition, our customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. A significant breach of customer, employee, or company data could damage our reputation and result in lost sales, fines, and/or lawsuits. If we lose key personnel, it may have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations. We believe that we benefit substantially from the leadership and experience of our senior executives. The loss of services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse impact on our business. Competition for key personnel in the retail industry is intense and our future success will also depend on our ability to recruit, train, and retain our senior executives and other qualified personnel. The price of our common shares as traded on the New York Stock Exchange may be volatile. Our stock price may fluctuate substantially as a result of factors beyond our control, including but not limited to, general economic and stock market conditions, risks relating to our business and industry as discussed above, strategic actions by us or our competitors, variations in our quarterly operating performance, our future sales or purchases of our common shares, and investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with our common shares relative to other investment alternatives. 10 We also may be subject to a number of other factors which may, individually or in the aggregate, materially or adversely affect our business. These factors include, but are not limited to: Events or circumstances could occur which could create bad publicity for us or for types of merchandise offered in our stores which may negatively impact our business results including sales; Infringement of our intellectual property, including the Big Lots trademarks, could dilute our value; Our ability to attract and retain suitable employees; Our ability to establish effective advertising, marketing, and promotional programs; and Other risks described from time to time in our filings with the SEC. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone. 