Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe statements in this section describe the material risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.Our disclosure and analysis in this Form 10-K and in our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders contain forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Such statements are commonly identified by using words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “objective,” “goal,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will,” “should,” “may,” “target,” “forecast,” “guidance,” “outlook,” and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, forward-looking statements include statements relating to future actions, future performance, or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results.We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties, and potential inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated, or projected results set forth in the forward-looking statements. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements.You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date thereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K filed with the SEC. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of material risks, uncertainties, and assumptions relevant to our businesses. There can be no assurances that we have correctly and completely identified, assessed, and accounted for all factors that do or may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we presently believe to be immaterial also may adversely impact us. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Consequently, all of the forward-looking statements are qualified by these cautionary statements, and there can be no assurance that the results or developments we anticipate will be realized or that they will have the expected effects on our business or operations. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. 7Table of ContentsOur ability to achieve the results contemplated by forward-looking statements is subject to a number of factors, any one, or a combination, of which could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. These factors may include, but are not limited to:The current economic conditions (including commodity price fluctuations and sustained elevated underemployment) give rise to risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our capital resources, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity including, but not limited to the following:•Fluctuating commodity prices, including but not limited to diesel fuel and other fuels used to generate power by utilities, may affect our gross profit and operating profit margins.•Our expectations regarding the demand for our merchandise may be inaccurate, which could cause us to under buy or over buy certain categories or departments of merchandise, which could result in customer dissatisfaction or require excessive markdowns to sell through the merchandise.•Our customers may experience reduced disposable income due to increases in withholdings on personal payroll taxes associated with the social security in the United States and other governmental programs.•The reaction of our competitors to the marketplace may drive our competitors, some of whom are better capitalized than us, to offer significant discounts or promotions on their merchandise, which could negatively affect our sales and profit margins.•A downgrade in our credit rating could negatively affect our ability to access capital or could increase the borrowing rates we pay.If we are unable to continue to successfully execute our operating strategies in our U.S. segment, our operating performance could be significantly impacted.There is a risk that we will be unable to meet or exceed our operating performance targets and goals in the future if our strategies and initiatives are unsuccessful. In 2010, we announced operating performance targets and goals as part of an updated strategic plan that we intended to use as our roadmap for the future. We continued to execute on that plan in 2012, which included a growth phase and a continued focus on merchandising, real estate, and cost structure. During 2012, our senior management performed a review and provided our Board of Directors with an updated view of our strategic plan for 2013 and beyond. In December 2012, we announced the intention of our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Steven S. Fishman, to retire in 2013, once his successor has been identified. The successful hiring of a new Chief Executive Officer and the completion of the review our strategic plan could impact our abilities to meet our operating performance targets. See the accompanying MD&A in this Form 10-K for additional information concerning our operating strategy. If we are unable to successfully implement our operating strategies in our Canadian segment, our operating performance could be significantly impacted.In 2011, we acquired Liquidation World Inc. as an avenue for entry into the Canadian retail market, which was not specifically included in the strategic plan announced in 2010, but fell within the growth phase goals of our overall plan. In 2012, the Company began implementing an operating strategy in Canada similar to that of our U.S. segment. If we are unable to successfully complete the implementation of this strategy in Canada, such failure could have a material adverse affect on our consolidated operating performance and the value of our goodwill and intangibles assets associated with the Canadian segment could be negatively affected. See the accompanying MD&A in this Form 10-K for additional information concerning our operating strategy. If we are unable to compete effectively in the highly competitive discount retail industry, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. The discount retail business, which includes both traditional brick and mortar stores and the e-commerce marketplace, is highly competitive. As discussed in Item 1 of this Form 10-K, we compete for customers, products, employees, real estate, and other aspects of our business with a number of other companies. Certain of our competitors have greater financial, distribution, marketing, and other resources than us. It is possible that increased competition or improved performance by our competitors may reduce our market share, gross margin, and operating margin, and may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations in other ways. 8Table of ContentsIf we are unable to compete effectively with the growing e-commerce sector, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.With the continued expansion of mobile computing devices and smart phones, competition from the e-commerce sector continues to grow and our current operating strategy does not include plans for expansion into the on-line marketplace. Certain of our competitors, and a number of e-commerce retailers, have established e-commerce operations against which we compete for customers and products. It is possible that the increasing competition from the e-commerce sector may reduce our market share, gross margin, and operating margin, and may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations in other ways.Changes by vendors related to the management of their inventories may reduce the quantity and quality of brand-name closeout merchandise available to us or may increase our cost to acquire brand-name closeout merchandise, either of which may materially adversely affect our revenues and gross margin. For the closeout component of our business, we do not control the supply, design, function, availability, or cost of many of the products that we offer for sale in our stores. Our ability to meet or exceed our operating performance targets for gross margin depends upon the sufficient availability of closeout merchandise that we can acquire and offer at prices that represent a value to our customers. In addition, we rely on our vendors to provide us with quality merchandise. To the extent that certain of our vendors are better able to manage their inventory levels and reduce the amount of their excess inventory, the amount of closeout merchandise available to us could be materially reduced. Shortages or disruptions in the availability of closeout merchandise of a quality acceptable to our customers and us would likely have a material adverse effect on our sales and gross margin and may result in customer dissatisfaction. We rely on vendors located in foreign countries for significant amounts of merchandise and a significant amount of our domestically-purchased merchandise is manufactured abroad. Our business may be materially adversely affected by risks associated with international trade.Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in driving higher gross margin. During 2012, we purchased approximately 24% of our products directly from overseas vendors including 20% from vendors located in China. Our ability to identify qualified vendors and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced outside of North America. Global sourcing and foreign trade involve numerous factors and uncertainties beyond our control including increased shipping costs, increased import duties, more restrictive quotas, loss of most favored nation trading status, currency and exchange rate fluctuations, work stoppages, transportation delays, economic uncertainties such as inflation, foreign government regulations, political unrest, natural disasters, war, terrorism, trade restrictions (including retaliation by the United States against foreign practices), political instability, the financial stability of vendors, merchandise quality issues, and tariffs. These and other issues affecting our international vendors could materially adversely affect our business and financial performance.Disruption to our distribution network, the capacity of our distribution centers, and the timely receipt of merchandise inventory could adversely affect our operating performance.We rely on our ability to replenish depleted merchandise inventory through deliveries to our distribution centers and from the distribution centers to our stores by various means of transportation, including shipments by sea, rail and truck carriers. A decrease in the capacity of carriers and/or labor strikes or shortages in the transportation industry could negatively affect our distribution network, the timely receipt of merchandise and transportation costs. In addition, long-term disruptions to North American and international transportation infrastructure from wars, political unrest, terrorism, natural disasters, governmental budget constraints and other significant events that lead to delays or interruptions of service could adversely affect our business. Also, a fire, earthquake, or other disaster at one of our distribution centers could disrupt our timely receipt, processing and shipment of merchandise to our stores which could adversely affect our business. As we continue to expand our operations, we may face increased or unexpected demands on distribution center operations, as well as unexpected demands on our distribution network. In addition, new store locations receiving shipments that are increasingly further away from our distribution centers will increase transportation costs, accentuated by rising fuel prices, and may create transportation scheduling strains. 9Table of ContentsOur inability to properly manage our inventory levels and offer merchandise that our customers want may materially impact our business and financial performance.We must maintain sufficient inventory levels to operate our business successfully. However, we also must seek to avoid accumulating excess inventory in order to maintain appropriate in-stock levels. As stated above, we obtain approximately one quarter of our merchandise from vendors outside of North America. These foreign vendors often require lengthy advance notice of our requirements in order to be able to supply products in the quantities that we request. This usually requires us to order merchandise and enter into purchase order contracts for the purchase of such merchandise well in advance of the time these products are offered for sale. As a result, we may experience difficulty in responding to a changing retail environment, which makes us vulnerable to changes in price and in consumer preferences. In addition, we attempt to maximize our gross margin and operating efficiency by delivering proper quantities of merchandise to our stores in a timely manner. If we do not accurately anticipate future demand for a particular product or the time it will take to replenish inventory levels, our inventory levels may not be appropriate and our results of operations may be negatively impacted.Declines in general economic condition, disposable income levels, and other conditions could lead to reduced consumer demand for our merchandise thereby materially affecting our revenues and gross margin.Our results of operations can be directly impacted by the health of the economies of the United States and Canada. Our business and financial performance may be adversely impacted by current and future economic conditions, including factors that may restrict or otherwise negatively impact consumer financing, disposable income levels, unemployment levels, energy costs, interest rates, recession, inflation, the impact of unseasonable weather, natural disasters or terrorist activities and other matters that influence consumer spending. Specifically, our Furniture, Home, and Seasonal categories are threatened when disposable income levels are negatively impacted by economic conditions. Additionally, our cyclical product offerings in our Seasonal category are threatened when we experience extended periods of unseasonable weather. In particular, the economic conditions and weather patterns of four states (Ohio, Texas, California, and Florida) are important as approximately 32% of our current stores operate in these states and 35% of our 2012 net sales occurred in these states.Changes in federal or state/provincial legislation and regulations, including the effects of legislation and regulations on product safety, could increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our operating performance.We are exposed to the risk that new federal or state/provincial legislation, including new product safety laws and regulations, may negatively impact our operations and adversely affect our operating performance. Additional changes in product safety legislation or regulations may lead to product recalls and the disposal or write-off of merchandise, as well as fines or penalties and reputational damage. If our merchandise, including food and consumable products, do not meet applicable governmental safety standards or our customers' expectations regarding quality or safety, we could experience lost sales, increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. Our inability to comply on a timely basis with regulatory requirements, or execute product recalls in a timely manner, could result in fines or penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, negative customer perceptions regarding the safety of the products we sell could cause us to lose market share to our competitors. If this occurs, it may be difficult for us to regain lost sales. We may be subject to periodic litigation and regulatory proceedings, including Fair Labor Standards Act and state wage and hour class action lawsuits, which may adversely affect our business and financial performance.From time to time, we may be involved in lawsuits and regulatory actions, including various collective or class action lawsuits that are brought against us for alleged violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act and state wage and hour laws. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we may not be able to accurately determine the impact on us of any future adverse outcome of such proceedings. The ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. In addition, regardless of the outcome, these proceedings could result in substantial cost to us and may require us to devote substantial resources to defend ourselves. For a description of certain current legal proceedings, see note 10 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 10Table of ContentsOur current insurance program may expose us to unexpected costs and negatively affect our financial performance.Our insurance coverage is subject to deductibles, self-insured retentions, limits of liability and similar provisions that we believe are prudent based on the dispersion of our operations. However, we may incur certain types of losses that we cannot insure or which we believe are not economically reasonable to insure, such as losses due to acts of war, employee and certain other crime and some natural disasters. If we incur these losses and they are material, our business could suffer. Certain material events may result in sizable losses for the insurance industry and adversely impact the availability of adequate insurance coverage or result in excessive premium increases. To offset negative cost trends in the insurance market, we may elect to self-insure, accept higher deductibles or reduce the amount of coverage in response to these market changes. In addition, we self-insure a significant portion of expected losses under our workers' compensation, general liability, including automobile, and group health insurance programs. Unanticipated changes in any applicable actuarial assumptions and management estimates underlying our recorded liabilities for these losses, including potential increases in medical and indemnity costs, could result in materially different amounts of expense than expected under these programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we continue to maintain property insurance for catastrophic events, we are self-insured for losses up to the amount of our deductibles. If we experience a greater number of self-insured losses than we anticipate, our financial performance could be adversely affected.A significant decline in our operating profit and taxable income may impair our ability to realize the value of our long-lived assets and deferred tax assets. We are required by accounting rules to periodically assess our property and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, and deferred tax assets for impairment and recognize an impairment loss or valuation charge, if necessary. In performing these assessments for our U.S. segment, we use our historical financial performance to determine whether we have potential impairments or valuation concerns and as evidence to support our assumptions about future financial performance. In relation to our Canadian segment, we use our estimate of future financial performance in performing these assessments (exclusive of matters associated with deferred tax assets) as we do not believe that past performance is indicative of the future performance of the segment. If our financial performance significantly declines, it could negatively affect the results of our assessments of the recoverability of our property and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, and our deferred tax assets. A significant decline in our future operating results could impair our ability to recover the value of these assets. Impairment or valuation charges taken against property and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, and deferred tax assets could be material and could have a material adverse impact on our capital resources, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity (see the discussion under the caption “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in the accompanying MD&A in this Form 10-K for additional information regarding our accounting policies for long-lived assets, goodwill, and income taxes).Our inability, if any, to comply with the terms of the 2011 Credit Agreement may have a material adverse effect on our capital resources, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. We have the ability to borrow funds under the 2011 Credit Agreement and we utilize this ability at various times depending on operating or other cash flow requirements. The 2011 Credit Agreement contains financial and other covenants, including, but not limited to, limitations on indebtedness, liens, and investments, as well as the maintenance of a leverage ratio and a fixed charge coverage ratio. A violation of any of these covenants may permit the lenders to restrict our ability to further access loans and letters of credit and may require the immediate repayment of any outstanding loans. Our failure to comply with these covenants may have a material adverse effect on our capital resources, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.If we are unable to maintain or upgrade our information systems and software programs or if we are unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner, our operations may be disrupted or become less efficient.We depend on a variety of information systems for the efficient functioning of our business. We rely on certain software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that we can continue to support our business. The software programs supporting many of our systems are licensed to us by independent software developers. Costs and potential interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of our existing systems could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our business. 11Table of ContentsIf we are unable to retain existing and secure suitable new store locations under favorable lease terms, our financial performance may be negatively affected.We lease almost all of our stores and a significant number of these leases expire or are up for renewal each year, as noted below in “