Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. The following risk factors, issues and uncertainties should be considered in evaluating our future prospects. In particular, keep these risk factors in mind when you read "forward-looking" statements elsewhere in this report. Forward-looking statements relate to our expectations for future events and time periods. Generally, the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "intend," "plan" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward–looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and future events and circumstances could differ significantly from those anticipated in the forward–looking statements. Any of the following risks could harm our business, operating results or financial condition and could result in a complete loss of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we currently think are immaterial may also harm our business and financial condition in the future. The current recession has negatively affected our customers and our business, and could continue to negatively affect our customers and materially adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. The current recession is having a significant negative impact on businesses around the world. The full impact of this recession on our customers, especially our customers engaged in construction, cannot be predicted and may be quite severe. These and other economic factors, such as consumer demand, unemployment, inflation levels and the availability Page -10 Table of Contents of credit could have a material adverse effect on demand for our services and on our financial condition and operating results. We sell our services to a large number of small and medium sized businesses and these businesses have been and are more likely to be impacted by unfavorable general economic and market conditions than larger and better capitalized companies. If our customers cannot access credit to support increased demand for their product or if demand for their products declines, they will have less need for our services. We may be negatively affected by the financial crisis in the U.S. and global capital and credit markets. We must maintain liquidity to fund our working capital and to fund our premium and collateral obligations to our insurance providers. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to limit our operations or we may not be able to pursue new business opportunities. The principal sources of our liquidity are cash generated from operating activities, available cash and cash equivalents, and borrowings under our credit facility. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption during the past year. These market conditions could affect our ability to borrow under our credit facility, or adversely affect our banking partners. We can make no assurances that our banking partners will not experience a significant adverse event that could impact their abilities to fulfill their obligations to us. Even if the credit markets improve, the availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors, such as economic and market conditions, the availability of credit and our credit ratings, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of us or the markets that we serve. We may not be able to successfully obtain any necessary additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. Competition for customers in the staffing markets we serve is intense, and if we are not able to effectively compete, our financial results could be harmed and the price of our securities could decline. The temporary services industry is highly competitive, with limited barriers to entry. Several very large and mid-sized full-service and specialized temporary labor companies, as well as small local operations, compete with us in the staffing industry. Competition in the markets we serve is intense and these competitive forces limit our ability to raise prices to our customers. For example, competitive forces have historically limited our ability to raise our prices to immediately and fully offset increased costs of doing business, including increased labor costs, costs for workers' compensation and state unemployment insurance. As a result of these forces, we have in the past faced pressure on our operating margins. Pressure on our margins remains intense, and we cannot assure you that it will not continue. If we are not able to effectively compete in the staffing markets we serve, our operating margins and other financial results will be harmed and the price of our securities could decline. A significant portion of our insurance coverage, including workers' compensation, is provided by AIGCI. If AIGCI, or its insurance subsidiaries, were to experience further financial problems, it could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our workers' compensation insurance policies are with various insurance subsidiaries of AIGCI. AIGCI holds the majority of the restricted cash collateralizing our self-insured workers' compensation policies. We also rely on AIGCI to provide state-mandated statutory workers' compensation coverage, employers' liability coverage, auto coverage, and general liability coverage. While we have not experienced a loss of collateral with any of the prior insurance companies that have entered liquidation, if AIGCI were to experience further financial problems, our restricted cash deposits, letters of credit, and/or our workers' compensation or other coverage at AIGCI could be at risk. The loss of the cash deposits and letters of credit would have a material negative impact on our balance sheet and could require us to seek additional sources of capital to pay our accrued workers' compensation claims. These additional sources of financing may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The loss of our workers' compensation coverage would prevent us from doing business in the majority of our markets. If we are not able to obtain or maintain insurance on commercially reasonable terms, our financial condition or results of operations could suffer. We maintain various types of insurance coverage to help offset the costs associated with certain risks to which we are exposed. We have previously experienced, and could again experience, changes in the insurance markets that result in significantly increased insurance costs and higher deductibles. For example, we are required to pay workers' compensation benefits for our temporary and permanent employees. Under our workers' compensation insurance program, we maintain "per occurrence" insurance, which covers claims for a particular event above a $2.0 million deductible, and we do not maintain an aggregate stop-loss limit other than on a per-occurrence basis. While we have secured coverage with AIG Commercial Insurance ("AIGCI") for occurrences during the period from July 2008 to July 2009, our insurance policies must be renewed annually, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully renew such policies for any period after July 2009. In the event we are not able to obtain workers' compensation insurance, or any of our other insurance coverages, on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to operate our business would be significantly impacted and our Page -11 Table of Contents financial condition and results of operations could suffer. If our financial results deteriorate, our insurance carrier may accelerate our premium payments or require all premium to be paid in one initial payment. Such a change in our insurance payment terms could impact our available cash, and our financial condition or operations could suffer. The terms under which we post the collateral necessary to support our workers' compensation obligations may change which could reduce the capital we have available to support our operations. We are required to maintain commitments such as cash and cash-backed instruments, irrevocable letters of credit, and/or surety bonds to secure repayment to our insurance companies (or in some instances, the state) of the deductible portion of all open workers' compensation claims. We pledge cash or other assets in order to secure these commitments and there are a number of factors that cause the size of our collateral commitments to grow over time. As our business grows so does our workers' compensation reserve and the collateral needed to support it. We sometimes face difficulties in recovering our collateral from insurers, particularly when those insurers are in financial distress, and we cannot guarantee that our collateral for past claims will be released in a timely manner as we pay down claims. As a result, we expect that the amount of collateral required to secure our commitments to our insurance carriers could continue to increase. Alternatively, if our financial results deteriorate, our insurance carriers may require additional collateral, or we may see a shortening of the amount of time that the insurance carriers allow us to deposit collateral. Such a change in our collateral payment terms could impact our available cash, and our financial condition or operations could suffer. Deteriorating financial results could also cause our surety carriers to require more cash to collateralize surety bonds that they have issued. Our currently available sources of capital for these commitments are limited, and have been further limited by the current global liquidity shortage, and we could be required to seek additional sources of capital in the future. These additional sources of financing may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Even if such sources of financing are available, they could result in a dilution of value to our existing shareholders. Our reserves for workers' compensation claims, other liabilities, and our allowance for doubtful accounts may be inadequate, and we may incur additional charges if the actual amounts exceed the estimated amounts. We maintain reserves for workers' compensation claims, including the excess claims portion above our deductible, using actuarial estimates of the future cost of claims and related expenses. These estimates are impacted by items that have been reported but not settled and items that have been incurred but not reported. This reserve, which reflects potential liabilities to be paid in future periods based on estimated payment patterns, is discounted to its estimated net present value using discount rates based on average returns of "risk-free" U.S. Treasury instruments with maturities comparable to the weighted average lives of our workers' compensation claims. We evaluate the reserve regularly throughout the year and make adjustments accordingly. If the actual costs of such claims and related expenses exceed the amounts estimated, or if the discount rates represent an inflated estimate of our return on capital over time, actual losses for these claims may exceed reserves and/or additional reserves may be required. We have also established reserves for contingent legal and regulatory liabilities, based on management's estimates and judgments of the scope and likelihood of these liabilities. While we believe our judgments and estimates are adequate, if the actual outcome of these matters is less favorable than expected, an adjustment would be charged to expense in the period in which the outcome occurs or the period in which our estimate changes. We also establish an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, we may be required to incur additional charges. Some insurance companies with which we have previously done business are in financial distress, and one has been relieved of its insurance obligations to us. If our insurers do not fulfill their obligations, we could experience significant losses. Prior to our current policies with AIG Commercial Insurance ("AIGCI"), we purchased annual insurance policies in connection with our workers' compensation obligations from three primary carriers. Prior to 2001, Legion Insurance Company (Legion) and Reliance Insurance Company (Reliance) provided coverage to us. Legion and Reliance are in liquidation and have failed to pay a number of covered claims that exceed our deductible limits. We have presented these excess claims to the guarantee funds of the states in which the claims originated. Certain of these excess claims have been rejected by the state guarantee funds due to statutory eligibility limitations. As a result, we have concluded it is likely that we will be unable to obtain reimbursement for at least a portion of these excess claims. To the extent we experience additional claims that exceed our deductible limits and our insurers do not satisfy their coverage obligations, we may be forced to satisfy some or all of those claims directly; this in turn could harm our financial condition or results of operations. Our workers' compensation reserves include not only estimated expenses for claims within our self-insured layer but also estimated expenses related to claims in excess of the deductible limits. We record a receivable for the insurance coverage on excess claims. We have also recorded a valuation allowance against the insurance receivables from Legion and Reliance Page -12 Table of Contents to reflect our best estimates of amounts we may not realize as a result of the liquidations of those insurers. The outcome of those liquidations is inherently uncertain and we may realize significantly less than currently estimated, in which case an adjustment would be charged to expense in the period in which the outcome occurs or the period in which our estimate changes. Kemper Insurance Company (Kemper) provided coverage for occurrences commencing in 2001 through June 30, 2003. In December 2004, we executed a novation agreement pursuant to which we relinquished insurance coverage and assumed all further liability for all claims originating in the Kemper policy years. These claims are reserved for in the consolidated financial statements. Although we believe our judgements and estimates are adequate, we cannot assure you that claims originating in the Kemper policy years will not experience unexpected adverse developments. Our operations expose us to the risk of litigation which could lead to significant potential liability and costs that could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are in the business of employing people and placing them in the workplaces of other businesses. As a result, we are subject to a large number of federal and state laws and regulations relating to employment. This creates a risk of potential claims that we have violated laws related to discrimination and harassment, health and safety, wage and hour laws, criminal activity, personal injury and other claims. We are also subject to other types of claims in the ordinary course of our business. Some or all of these claims may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming for our management team, costly and harmful to our business. In addition, we are exposed to the risk of class action litigation. The costs of defense and the risk of loss in connection with class action suits are greater than in single-party litigation claims. Due to the costs of defending against such litigation, the size of judgments that may be awarded against us, and the loss of significant management time devoted to such litigation, we cannot assure you that such litigation will not disrupt our business or impact our financial results. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from operations in a limited number of markets. Unfavorable economic conditions in these markets have harmed and could continue to harm our operations. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from our operations in a limited number of states. Total revenue generated from operations in California, Texas and Florida, accounted for 33% of our overall revenue in 2008, 36% of our overall revenue in 2007 and 38% of our overall revenue in 2006. International operations will burden our resources and may fail to generate a substantial increase in revenue. Our international branch operations expose us to certain risks. These risks include risks already discussed in connection with our domestic branch operations and also include risks related to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, the additional expense and risks inherent in operations in geographically and culturally diverse locations, being subject to complex foreign tax laws and regulations. If we are not able to effectively manage those risks, our financial results could be harmed. As of December 26, 2008, we had 39 branches outside the United States. We are continually subject to the risk of new regulation, which could harm our business. Each year a number of bills are introduced to Federal, State, and local governments, any one of which, if enacted, could impose conditions which could harm our business. This proposed legislation has included provisions such as a requirement that temporary employees receive equal pay and benefits as permanent employees, requirements regarding employee health care, and a requirement that our customers provide workers' compensation insurance for our temporary employees. We actively oppose proposed legislation adverse to our business and inform policy makers of the social and economic benefits of our business. However, we cannot guarantee that any of this legislation will not be enacted, in which event demand for our service may suffer. The cost of compliance with government laws and regulations is significant and could harm our operating results. We incur significant costs to comply with complex federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to employment, including occupational safety and health provisions, wage and hour requirements (including minimum wages), workers' compensation unemployment insurance, and immigration. In addition, from time to time we are subject to audit by various state and governmental authorities to determine our compliance with a variety of these laws and regulations. We have in the past been found, and may in the future be found, to have violated such laws or regulations. We may, from time to time, incur fines and other losses or negative publicity with respect to any such violation. If we incur additional costs to comply with these laws and regulations or as a result of fines or other losses and we are not able to increase the rates we charge our customers to fully cover any such increase, our margins and operating results may be harmed. Page -13 Table of Contents Our business depends extensively on recruiting and retaining qualified branch managers. If we are not able to attract a sufficient number of qualified branch managers, our future growth and financial performance may suffer. We rely heavily on the performance and productivity of our branch managers, who manage the operation of the branches, including recruitment and assignment of temporary employees, marketing and providing quality customer service. We have historically experienced a high degree of turnover among our branch managers. As a result, we must continue to recruit a sufficient number of managers to staff new branches and to replace managers lost through attrition or termination. Our future growth and financial performance depend on our ability to hire, train and retain qualified managers from a limited pool of qualified candidates. Our credit facility requires that we meet certain levels of financial performance. In the event we fail either to meet these requirements or have them waived, we may be subject to penalties and we could be forced to seek additional financing. We have a credit agreement with certain unaffiliated financial institutions (the "Revolving Credit Facility") that expires in April 2011. The Revolving Credit Facility requires that we comply with certain financial covenants. Among other things, these covenants require us to maintain certain leverage and coverage ratios. Deterioration of our financial results would make it harder for us to comply with these financial covenants. In the past we have negotiated amendments to these covenants to ensure our continued compliance with their restrictions. We cannot be assured that our lenders would consent to such amendments on commercially reasonable terms in the future if we once again required such relief. In the event that we do not comply with the covenants and the lenders do not waive such non-compliance, then we will be in default of the Revolving Credit Facility, which could subject us to penalty rates of interest and accelerate the maturity of the outstanding balances. Accordingly, in the event of a default under the Revolving Credit Facility, we could be required to seek additional sources of capital to satisfy our liquidity needs. These additional sources of financing may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. A significant portion of our liquidity relies on a limited number of banking partners. If these banks fail we could face a shortage of liquidity, which could harm our business operations. In the current economic recession, we cannot assure you that the lenders under the Revolving Credit Facility will remain able to support their commitments to us in the future. If these lenders fail we may not be able to secure alternative financing on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We have significant working capital requirements. We require significant working capital in order to operate our business. We may experience periods of negative cash flow from operations and investment activities, especially during seasonal peaks in revenue experienced in the second and third quarter of the year. We invest significant cash into the opening and operations of new branches until they begin to generate revenue sufficient to cover their operating costs. We also pay our temporary employees before customers pay us for the services provided. As a result, we must maintain cash reserves to pay our temporary employees prior to receiving payment from our customers. Our collateral requirements may increase in future periods, which would decrease amounts available for working capital purposes. If our available cash balances and borrowing base under our existing credit facility do not grow commensurate with the growth in our working capital requirements, or if our banking partners experience cash shortages or are unwilling to provide us with necessary cash, we could be required to explore alternative sources of financing to satisfy our liquidity needs. Our management information and computer processing systems are critical to the operations of our business and any failure, interruption in service, or security failure could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our management information systems. We rely heavily on our management information systems to manage our order entry, order fulfillment, pricing, and point-of-sale processes. The failure of our management information systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in decreased revenue, increased overhead costs and could require that we commit significant additional capital and management resources to resolve the issue, causing our business and results of operations to suffer materially. Failure to protect the integrity and security of our customers' and employees' information could expose us to litigation and materially damage our standing with our customers. The loss of any of our key personnel could harm our business. Our future financial performance will depend to a significant extent on our ability to motivate and retain key management personnel. Competition for qualified management personnel is intense and in the event we experience turnover in our key management positions, we cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit suitable replacements or assimilate new key management personnel into our organization to achieve our operating objectives. Even if we are successful, turnover in key management positions could temporarily harm our financial performance and results of operations until new Page -14 Table of Contents management becomes familiar with our business. Furthermore, we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our executive officers. Our business would suffer if we could not attract enough temporary employees or skilled trade workers. We compete with other temporary personnel companies to meet our customer needs and we must continually attract reliable temporary employees to fill positions. We have in the past experienced short-term worker shortages and we may continue to experience such shortages in the future. In addition, our CLP, PlaneTechs and TLC brands rely on their ability to attract skilled trade workers. If we are unable to find temporary employees or skilled trade workers to fulfill the needs of our customers over a long period of time, we could lose customers and our business could suffer. Labor unions have attempted to harm our business. Various labor unions and activist groups have attempted to disrupt our business. For example, these groups have backed legislation designed to adversely impact our business, coordinated legal actions directed at our activities and engaged in a public relations campaign to discredit members of our management team and influence our customers. We cannot assure you that these activities will not harm our business or the price of our securities. Failure in our pursuit or execution of new business ventures, strategic alliances and acquisitions could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our long-term growth strategy includes expansion via new business ventures and acquisitions. While we employ several different valuation methodologies to assess a potential growth opportunity, we can give no assurance that new business ventures and strategic acquisitions will positively affect our financial performance. Acquisitions may result in the diversion of our capital and our management's attention from other business issues and opportunities. Unsuccessful acquisition efforts may result in significant additional expenses that would not otherwise be incurred. We may not be able to assimilate or integrate successfully companies that we acquire, including their personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general operating procedures. If we fail to assimilate or integrate acquired companies successfully, our business could suffer materially. In addition, we may not realize the revenues and cost savings that we expect to achieve or that would justify the acquisition investment, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. We may also encounter challenges in achieving appropriate internal control over financial reporting in connection with the integration of an acquired company. In addition, the integration of any acquired company, and its financial results, into ours may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We are highly dependent on the cash flows and net earnings we generate during our second and third fiscal quarters. A majority of our cash flow from operating activities is generated during the 2nd and 3rd quarters which include the summer months. Unexpected events or developments such as natural disasters, manmade disasters and adverse economic conditions in our second and third quarter could have a material adverse effect on our operating cash flows. The foregoing should not be construed as an exhaustive list of all factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 