Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. The following risk factors, issues and uncertainties should be considered in evaluating our future prospects. In particular, keep these risk factors in mind when you read “forward-looking” statements elsewhere in this report. Forward-looking statements relate to our expectations for future events and time periods. Generally, the words “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward–looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and future events and circumstances could differ significantly from those anticipated in the forward–looking statements. Any of the following risks could harm our business, operating results or financial condition and could result in a complete loss of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we currently think are immaterial may also harm our business and financial condition in the future. Competition for customers in our industry is intense, and if we are not able to effectively compete, our financial results could be harmed and the price of our securities could decline. The temporary services industry is highly competitive, with limited barriers to entry. Several very large full-service and specialized temporary labor companies, as well as small local operations, compete with us in the staffing industry. Competition in some markets is intense, particularly with regard to recruiting workers, and these competitive forces limit our ability to raise prices to our customers. For example, competitive forces have historically limited our ability to raise our prices to immediately and fully offset increased costs of doing business, including increased labor costs, costs for workers’ compensation and state unemployment insurance. As a result of these forces, we have in the past faced pressure on our operating margins. Pressure on our margins remains intense, and we cannot assure you that it will not continue. If we are not able to effectively compete in our targeted markets, our operating margins and other financial results will be harmed and the price of our securities could decline. If we are not able to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms, our financial condition or results of operations could suffer. We are required to pay workers’ compensation benefits for our temporary and permanent employees. The insurance markets have undergone dramatic changes in recent periods and several insurers are experiencing financial difficulties. These changes have resulted in significantly increased insurance costs and higher deductibles, including those applicable to our workers’ compensation insurance coverages. Under our workers’ compensation insurance program, we maintain “per occurrence” insurance, which covers any claims for a particular event above a $2.0 million deductible, and we do not maintain an aggregate stop-loss limit other than on a per-occurrence basis. While we have secured coverage with American International Group, Inc. (AIG), which is the insurance company for the majority of our workers’ compensation policies, for occurrences in the period from July 2005 through June 2006, our insurance policies must be renewed annually, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully renew such policies for any period after June 2006. In the event we are not able to obtain workers’ compensation insurance on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to operate our business would be significantly impacted and our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We maintain employment practice liability insurance (EPLI) for certain types of claims that may arise out of the course of employment. We currently maintain a policy with a $1.0 million deductible for single-party claims and a $2.5 million deductible for multiple-party claims with a maximum aggregate coverage of $10.0 million per claim and per policy year which is applicable to the coverage period of July 2005 through June 2006. The EPLI market has experienced increasing losses in recent periods 9 creating increases in insurance premiums, increases in deductible limits, and decreases in overall coverage. In the event we are unable to retain EPLI coverage on commercially reasonable terms, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We expect that the amount of collateral that we are required to post to support our workers’ compensation obligations will increase, which will reduce the capital we have available to grow and support our operations. We are required to maintain commitments such as cash and cash-backed instruments, irrevocable letters of credit, or surety bonds to secure repayment to our insurance companies (or in some instances, the state) of the deductible portion of all open workers’ compensation claims. We pledge cash or other assets in order to secure these commitments. We sometimes face difficulties in recovering our collateral from insurers, particularly when those insurers are in financial distress, and we cannot guarantee that our collateral for past claims will be released in a timely manner as we pay down claims. As a result, we expect that the amount of collateral required to secure our commitments to our insurance carriers will continue to increase. We believe that our current sources of liquidity will satisfy our immediate needs for these obligations; however, our currently available sources of collateral for these commitments are limited and we could be required to seek additional sources of capital in the future. These additional sources of financing may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Even if they are available, these financings could result in dilution of earnings to our existing shareholders. Our reserves for workers’ compensation claims and other liabilities and our allowance for doubtful accounts may be inadequate, and we may incur additional charges if the actual amounts exceed the estimated amounts. We maintain a reserve for workers’ compensation claims using actuarial estimates of the future cost of claims and related expenses that have been reported but not settled, and that have been incurred but not reported. This reserve, which reflects potential liabilities that span several years, is discounted to its net present value using a discount rate selected by management pursuant to our accounting policy. We evaluate the accrual rates for our reserves regularly throughout the year and make adjustments as needed. If the actual cost of such claims and related expenses exceed the amounts estimated, or if the discount rate represents an inflated estimate of our return on capital over time, actual losses for these claims may exceed reserves and/or additional reserves may be required. We also establish an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. We have also established reserves for contingent legal and regulatory liabilities, based on management’s estimates and judgments of the scope and likelihood of these liabilities. We believe our judgements and estimates are adequate; however if the actual outcome of these matters is less favorable than expected, an adjustment would be charged to expense in the period in which the outcome occurs or the period in which our estimate changes. Some insurance companies with which we have previously done business are in financial distress, and one has been relieved of its insurance obligations to us. If our insurers do not fulfill their obligations, we could experience significant losses. Prior to our current policies with AIG, we purchased annual insurance policies in connection with our workers’ compensation obligations from three primary carriers. Kemper Insurance Company (Kemper) provided coverage for occurrences commencing in 2001 through June 30, 2003. Prior to 2001, Legion Insurance Company (Legion) and Reliance Insurance Company (Reliance) provided coverage to us. In December 2004, we executed a Novation agreement pursuant to which we relinquished insurance coverage and assumed all further liability for all claims originating in the Kemper policy years. These claims are reserved for in the consolidated financial statements. Although we believe our judgements and estimates are adequate, we cannot assure you that claims originating in the Kemper policy years will not experience unexpected adverse developments. Legion and Reliance are in liquidation and have failed to pay a number of covered claims that exceed our deductible limits (“excess claims”). We have presented these excess claims to the guarantee funds of the states in which the claims originated. Certain of these excess claims have been rejected by the state guarantee funds due to statutory eligibility limitations. As a result, we have concluded it is likely that we will be unable to obtain reimbursement for at least a portion of these excess claims. To the extent we experience additional claims that exceed our deductible limits and our insurers do not satisfy their coverage obligations, we may continue to be forced to satisfy some or all of those claims directly; this in turn could harm our financial condition or results of operations. Our workers’ compensation reserves include not only estimated expenses for claims within our deductible layer but also estimated expenses related to excess claims. We record a receivable for the insurance coverage on excess claims. We have also recorded a valuation allowance against the insurance receivables from Legion and Reliance to reflect our best estimates of amounts we may not realize as a result of the liquidations of those insurers. The outcome of those liquidations is inherently uncertain; we may realize significantly less than currently estimated, in which case an adjustment would be charged to expense in the period in which the outcome occurs or the period in which our estimate changes. 10 We may be exposed to employment-related claims and costs that could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are in the business of employing people and placing them in the workplaces of other businesses. As a result, we are subject to a large number of federal and state regulations relating to employment. This creates a risk of potential claims of discrimination and harassment, violations of health and safety and wage and hour laws, criminal activity and other claims. From time to time we are subject to audit by various state and governmental authorities to determine our compliance with a variety of these regulations. We have in the past been found, and may in the future be found, to have violated regulations or other regulatory requirements applicable to our operations. We may, from time to time, incur fines and other losses or negative publicity with respect to any such violation. In addition, some or all of these claims may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming for our management team, costly and harmful to our business. We currently maintain a policy with a $1.0 million deductible for single-party claims and a $2.5 million deductible for multiple-party claims with a maximum aggregate coverage of $10.0 million per claim and per policy year which is applicable to the coverage period of July 2005 through June 2006. We cannot assure you that we will not experience these problems in the future or that our insurance will be sufficient in amount or scope to cover any of these types of liabilities or that we will be able to continue to secure insurance coverage for such events on terms that we find commercially reasonable. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from operations in a limited number of markets. Recessions in these markets have harmed and could continue to harm our operations. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from our operations in a limited number of states. Total revenue generated from operations in California, Texas and Florida, accounted for approximately 35.0% of our overall revenue in 2005, 2004 and 2003. In addition, as a result of our acquisition of CLP Resources, we expect that the percentage of our overall revenue generated from operations in California will increase even further. The California economy was particularly hard-hit by the most recent economic recession. California is our largest market and economic weakness in this region or our other key markets could harm our business. Any significant economic downturn or increase in interest rates could result in our clients using fewer temporary employees, which could harm our business or cause the price of our securities to decline. Because demand for personnel services and recruitment services is sensitive to changes in the level of economic activity, our business may suffer during economic downturns. As economic activity slows down, companies tend to reduce their use of temporary employees and recruitment services before undertaking layoffs of their permanent employees, resulting in decreased demand for our personnel. In addition, as a result of our acquisition of CLP Resources, a significant portion of our revenue is generated from work in the construction industry. As interest rates rise, the amount of construction could decline, which will cause a reduction in the demand for the use of temporary employees in the construction industry. As a result, any significant economic downturn or increase in interest rates could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause the price of our securities to decline. Establishment and expansion of our international operations will burden our resources and may fail to generate a substantial increase in revenue. Our international branch operations expose us to certain risks. If we are not able to effectively manage those risks, our financial results could be harmed. As of December 30, 2005, we had 86 branches outside the United States in the United Kingdom and Canada. Risks, not already discussed in connection with our domestic branch operations include: fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and the additional expense and risks inherent in operations in geographically and culturally diverse locations. We are continually subject to the risk of new regulation, which could harm our business. In recent years, a number of bills have been introduced in Congress and various state legislatures any one of which, if enacted, would impose conditions which could harm our business. This proposed legislation, much of which is backed by labor unions, has included provisions such as a requirement that our temporary employees receive the same pay and benefits as our customers’ permanent employees, a requirement that we spend a certain portion of our revenues on employee health care, a prohibition on fees charged in connection with our CDMs and a requirement that our customers provide workers’ compensation insurance for our temporary employees. We take a very active role and incur expense in opposing proposed legislation adverse to our business and in informing policy makers as to the social and economic benefits of our business. However, we cannot guarantee that any of this legislation will not be enacted, in which event demand for our service may suffer. Organized labor has been particularly active in sponsoring legislation in the State of California, our largest market. Adverse legislation in California or our other large markets could significantly increase our costs of doing business or decrease the value of our services to our customers, either of which could harm our results of operations. 11 The cost of compliance with government regulations is significant and could harm our operating results. We incur significant costs to comply with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations relating to employment, including occupational safety and health provisions, wage and hour requirements (including minimum wages), workers’ compensation and unemployment insurance. We cannot assure you that we will be able to increase fees charged to our customers to offset increased costs relating to these laws and regulations. If we incur additional costs to comply with these regulations and we are not able to increase the rates we charge our customers to fully cover any such increase, our margins and operating results may be harmed. Our operations expose us to the risk of litigation, which we try to manage but could lead to significant potential liability. From time to time we are party to litigation in the ordinary course of our business. The claimants in several current proceedings are seeking to aggregate claims as a class action. The costs of defense and the risk of loss in connection with class action suits are greater than in standard commercial litigation. We cannot assure you that such litigation will not disrupt our business or impact our financial results, due to the costs of defending against such litigation, any judgments that may be awarded against us and the loss of significant management time devoted to such litigation. Our business depends extensively on recruiting and retaining qualified branch managers. If we are not able to attract a sufficient number of qualified branch managers, our future growth and financial performance may suffer. We rely heavily on the performance and productivity of our branch managers, who manage the operation of the branches, including recruitment and daily dispatch of temporary employees, marketing and providing quality customer service. We have historically experienced a high degree of turnover among our branch managers. As a result, we must continue to recruit a sufficient number of managers to staff new branches and to replace managers lost through attrition or termination. Our future growth and financial performance depends on our ability to hire, train and retain qualified managers from a limited pool of qualified candidates who frequently have no prior experience in the temporary employment industry. Our credit facilities require that we meet certain levels of financial performance. In the event we fail either to meet these requirements or have them waived, we may be subject to penalties and we could be forced to seek additional financing. Our credit facilities contain strict financial covenants. Among other things, these covenants require us to maintain certain net income and net worth levels and a certain ratio of net income to fixed expenses. In the past we have negotiated amendments to these covenants to ensure our continued compliance with their restrictions. We cannot assure you that our lender would consent to such amendments on commercially reasonable terms in the future if we once again required such relief. In the event that we do not comply with the covenants and the lender does not waive such non-compliance, we will be in default of our credit agreement, which could subject us to penalty rates of interest and accelerate the maturity of the outstanding balances. Moreover, our insurance policies and smaller loan arrangements contain cross-default provisions, which accelerate our indebtedness under these arrangements in the event we default under our credit facilities. Accordingly, in the event of a default under our credit facilities, we could be required to seek additional sources of capital to satisfy our liquidity needs. These additional sources of financing may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Even if they are available, these financings could result in dilution to our existing shareholders. Our acquisitions or acquisition efforts may not be successful, which may limit our growth or adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As part of our business strategy, we have made acquisitions of other temporary staffing businesses and we may continue to pursue such acquisitions in the future. Unsuccessful acquisition efforts may result in significant additional expenses that would not otherwise be incurred. Following an acquisition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate the operations of the acquired business without significant difficulties, including unanticipated costs, difficulty in retaining customers, failure to retain key employees and the diversion of management attention. In addition, we may not realize the revenues and cost savings that we expect to achieve or that would justify the acquisition investment, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. These circumstances could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We have significant working capital requirements. We require significant working capital in order to operate our business. We have historically experienced periods of negative cash flow from operations and investment activities, especially during seasonal peaks in revenue experienced in the third and fourth quarter of the year. We invest significant cash into the opening and operations of new branches until they begin to generate revenue sufficient to cover their operating costs. We also pay our temporary employees on a daily basis and bill our customers on a weekly basis. As a result, we must maintain cash reserves to pay our temporary employees prior to receiving payment from our customers. In addition, we are required to pledge certain short-term assets to secure letters of credit and to pledge other assets to collateralize certain of our workers’ compensation obligations. These collateral requirements may increase in future periods, which would decrease amounts available for working capital purposes. As a result of these factors, if our available cash balances and borrowing base under our existing credit facilities do not grow commensurate with the growth in our working capital 12 requirements, we could be required to explore alternative sources of financing to satisfy our liquidity needs, including the issuance of additional equity or debt securities. Any such issuances could result in dilution to existing shareholders. Our information and computer processing systems are critical to the operations of our business and any failure could cause significant problems. Our information technology systems, located at our headquarters, are essential for data exchange and operational communications with branches throughout the country. Any interruption, impairment or loss of data integrity or malfunction of these systems could severely hamper our business and could require that we commit significant additional capital and management resources to rectify the problem. The loss of any of our key personnel could harm our business. Our future financial performance will depend to a significant extent on our ability to motivate and retain key management personnel. Competition for qualified management personnel is intense and in the event we experience further turnover in our senior management positions, we cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit suitable replacements. We must also successfully integrate all new management and other key positions within our organization to achieve our operating objectives. Even if we are successful, turnover in key management positions will temporarily harm our financial performance and results of operations until new management becomes familiar with our business. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our executive officers. Our business would suffer if we could not attract enough temporary employees or skilled trade workers. We compete with other temporary personnel companies to meet our customer needs and we must continually attract reliable temporary employees to fill positions. We have in the past experienced short-term worker shortages and we may continue to experience such shortages in the future. In addition, CLP Resources’ business relies on the ability to attract skilled trade workers. If we are unable to find temporary employees or skilled trade workers to fulfill the needs of our customers over a long period of time, we could lose customers and our business could suffer. Determinations that we have misclassified the jobs performed by our temporary employees for workers’ compensation insurance purposes in our monopolistic states, even if the misclassifications are inadvertent, could result in us owing penalties to government regulators and/or having to record additional expense. In five states, Canada and Puerto Rico, (our monopolistic states) we pay workers’ compensation insurance premiums directly to the government in amounts based in part on the classification of jobs performed by our employees. From time to time, we are subject to audits by various state regulators regarding our classifications of jobs performed by our employees. If it is determined that we have materially misclassified a significant number of our employees, we could be required to pay significant amounts of additional premium as well as penalites and interest. Labor unions have attempted to harm our business. Various labor unions and activist groups have attempted to disrupt our business. For example, these groups have backed legislation designed to adversely impact our business, coordinated legal actions directed at our activities and engaged in a public relations campaign to discredit members of our management team and influence our customers. We cannot assure you that these activities will not harm our business or the price of our securities. 