risk factors described in this section, may have a material impact on the market price of our common shares: • Investor perception of us as a company; • Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our revenues or operating results; • Announcement of intended acquisitions, disposals or financings, or speculation about such acquisitions, disposals or financings; • Changes in our dividend policy, which could result from changes in our cash flow and capital position; • Sales of blocks of our shares by significant shareholders, including Vereniging AEGON; • Price and timing of any refinancing or conversion of our convertible core capital securities; • A downgrade or rumored downgrade of our credit or financial strength ratings, including placement on credit watch; • Potential litigation involving us or the insurance industry in general; • Changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities research analysts; • Fluctuations in capital markets including foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity markets; • The performance of other companies in the insurance sector; • Regulatory developments in the Netherlands, the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and other countries in which we operate; • International political and economic conditions, including the effects of terrorist attacks, military operations and other developments stemming from such events and the uncertainty related to these developments; • News or analyst reports related to markets or industries in which we operate; and • General insurance market conditions. The high and low prices of AEGON’s common shares on Euronext Amsterdam were EUR 6.17 and EUR 1.85 respectively in 2009 and EUR 5.41 and EUR 4.04 respectively in 2010. The high and low sales prices of our common shares on the NYSE were USD 9.23 and USD 2.30 respectively in 2009 and USD 7.41 and USD 5.11 respectively in 2010. All share prices are closing prices. We and our significant shareholders may offer additional common shares in the future, and these and other sales may adversely affect the market price of the outstanding common shares. We may decide to offer additional common shares in the future, for example, to strengthen our capital position in response to regulatory changes or to effect an acquisition. In connection with its refinancing in September 2002, Vereniging AEGON entered into an equity repurchase facility and a back-up credit facility. On February 9, 2010 both facilities were replaced by a three year term and revolving facilities agreement with a consortium of banks that can be extended until 2014. Under the new agreement our common shares in the possession of Vereniging AEGON are pledged to the consortium of banks. If Vereniging AEGON were to default under the facilities agreement, the lenders may dispose of our common shares held by them as collateral in order to satisfy amounts outstanding. An additional offering of common shares by us, sales of common shares by significant shareholders or by lenders to Vereniging AEGON, or the public perception that an offering or such sales may occur, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. As of December 31, 2010, our total authorized share capital consisted of 3,000,000,000 common shares, par value €0.12 per share, and 1,000,000,000 preferred shares (divided into 500,000,000 class A and 500,000,000 class B preferred shares), par value €0.25 per share. All our outstanding common shares are freely tradable, and all shareholders, including large shareholders such as Vereniging AEGON, are free to resell their shares at any time. The convertible core capital securities issued to Vereniging AEGON may be converted into common shares and dilute existing common shareholders. On December 1, 2008, we issued new convertible core capital securities to Vereniging AEGON. The purchase of these new securities by Vereniging AEGON was funded by the Dutch State and provided us with additional core capital. The terms of the convertible core capital securities permit us, on or after December 1, 2011, to convert any or all of the convertible core capital securities into common shares on a one-for-one basis. Any conversion to common shares would dilute existing common shareholders. If we exercise our conversion right, Vereniging AEGON may opt to require us to redeem the convertible core capital securities on the conversion date. Vereniging AEGON, our major shareholder, holds a large percentage of the voting shares and therefore has significant influence over our corporate actions. Prior to September 2002, Vereniging AEGON beneficially owned approximately 52% of the voting shares and thus held voting control over AEGON. In September 2002, Vereniging AEGON reduced its beneficial ownership to approximately 33% of the voting shares (excluding issued common shares held in treasury by AEGON). Pursuant to the 1983 Merger Agreement between AEGON and Vereniging AEGON, as amended, in case of an issuance of shares by AEGON, Vereniging AEGON may purchase as many class B 18 Table of Contents preferred shares as would enable it to prevent or offset a dilution to below its actual percentage of the voting shares, unless Vereniging AEGON as a result of exercising these option rights would increase its voting power to more than 33%. The option granted to Vereniging AEGON permits it to purchase class B preferred shares up to a maximum of the non-issued part of the class B preferred shares included from time to time in AEGON’s authorized capital if necessary to prevent or offset such dilution. The class B preferred shares would then be issued at par value (€0.25), unless a higher price is agreed. In the years 2003 through 2008, a total of 35,170,000 class B preferred shares were issued under these option rights. In 2009, Vereniging AEGON exercised its option rights to purchase in aggregate an additional 33,860,000 class B preferred shares at par value to offset dilution caused by our equity issue completed in August 2009. On March 15, 2011, Vereniging AEGON exercised its option rights to purchase 41,042,000 class B preferred shares at par value to offset dilution caused by the equity issuance completed on March 1, 2011. In addition, we have implemented certain changes to our corporate governance structure and the relationship with Vereniging AEGON pursuant to which Vereniging AEGON has voluntarily waived its right to cast 25/12 votes per class A or class B preferred share. Consequently, under normal circumstances Vereniging AEGON’s voting power, based on the December 31, 2010 numbers of outstanding and voting shares, is reduced to approximately 22.76% of the votes exercisable in the General Meeting of Shareholders. However, this reduction in voting percentage is not applicable in all circumstances. In certain limited circumstances at the sole discretion of Vereniging AEGON (such as the acquisition of 15% of the voting shares, a tender offer for shares or a proposed business combination, each by any person or group of persons, whether individually or acting as a group, other than in a transaction approved by the Executive Board and Supervisory Board), Vereniging AEGON’s voting rights for a limited period of 6 months will increase to a percentage that at December 31, 2010 amounts to 33%. Consequently, Vereniging AEGON may have substantial influence on the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, including: • Adopting amendments to the Articles of Association; • Adopting the annual accounts; • Approving a consolidation or liquidation; • Approving a tender offer, merger, sale of all or substantially all of the assets or other business combination; • In particular during the periods when Vereniging AEGON is entitled to exercise its increased voting rights, it will generally have sufficient voting power to veto certain decisions presented to the General Meeting of Shareholders, including any proposal relating to the following matters: (1) Rejecting binding Supervisory Board nominations for membership on the Supervisory Board and Executive Board; (2) Appointing an Executive Board or Supervisory Board member other than pursuant to Supervisory Board nomination; and (3) Suspending or removing an Executive Board or Supervisory Board member other than pursuant to a Supervisory Board proposal. Currency fluctuations may adversely affect the trading prices of our common shares and the value of any cash distributions made. Because our common shares listed on Euronext Amsterdam are quoted in euros and our common shares listed on the NYSE are quoted in US dollars, fluctuations in exchange rates between the euro and the US dollar may affect the value of our common shares. In addition, we declare cash dividends in euros, but pay cash dividends, if any, on our shares of New York registry in US dollars based on an exchange rate set the business day following the shareholder meeting approving the dividend. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may affect the US dollar value of any cash dividends paid. Convertible securities (or other securities that permit or require us to satisfy our obligations by issuing common shares) that we may issue could influence the market price for our common shares. Any market that develops for convertible securities or other securities that permit or require us to satisfy obligations by issuing common shares that we have issued or may issue in the future would be likely to influence, and be influenced by, the market for our common shares. For example, the price of our common shares could become more volatile and could be depressed by investors’ anticipation of the potential resale in the market of substantial amounts of our common shares received at maturity. Our common shares could also be depressed by the acceleration of any convertible securities (or other such securities) that we have issued by investors who view such convertible securities (or other such securities) as a more attractive means of participation in our equity. Negative results could also be produced by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that may develop involving such convertible securities (or other such securities) and our common shares. Any such developments could negatively affect the value of our common shares. 19 Table of Contents 