ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - ---------------------- In determining whether to invest in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following: IF WE EXPERIENCE LOAN LOSSES IN EXCESS OF OUR ALLOWANCE, OUR EARNINGS WILL BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectibility of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for specific loans when their ultimate collectibility is considered questionable. If management's assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require us to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, our earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. As of September 30, 2006, our allowance for loan losses was approximately $2.9 million which represented 0.66% of outstanding loans. At such date, we had thirty-three nonperforming loans totaling $2.7 million. We actively manage our nonperforming loans in an effort to minimize credit losses. Although management believes that its allowance for loan losses is adequate, there can be no assurance that the allowance will prove sufficient to cover future loan losses. Further, although management uses the best information available to make determinations with respect to the allowance for loan losses, future adjustments may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used or adverse developments arise with respect to our non-performing or performing loans. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease in our net income and capital, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 31 MANY OF OUR LOANS ARE TO COMMERCIAL BORROWERS, WHICH HAVE A HIGHER DEGREE OF RISK THAN OTHER TYPES OF LOANS. Commercial loans are often larger and may involve greater risks than other types of lending. Because payments on such loans are often dependent on the successful operation of the property or business involved, repayment of such loans may be more sensitive than other types of loans to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy. Unlike residential mortgage loans, which generally are made on the basis of the borrower's ability to make repayment from his or her employment and other income and which are secured by real property whose value tends to be more easily ascertainable, commercial loans typically are made on the basis of the borrower's ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the borrower's business. As a result, the availability of funds for the repayment of commercial loans may be substantially dependent on the success of the business itself and the general economic environment. If the cash flow from business operations is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. MOST OF OUR LOANS ARE SECURED, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, WITH REAL ESTATE COLLATERAL WHICH IS SUBJECT TO DECLINES IN VALUE. In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, we often secure our loans with real estate collateral. As of September 30, 2006, approximately 91.0% of our loans, including loans held for sale, had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by, among other things, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies, and acts of nature. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower. If real estate prices in our markets decline, the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans could be reduced. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. OUR BUSINESS IS GEOGRAPHICALLY CONCENTRATED AND IS SUBJECT TO REGIONAL ECONOMIC FACTORS THAT COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS. Substantially all of our business is with customers in our market area of Allegheny and Butler Counties. Most of our customers are consumers and small and medium-sized businesses which are dependent upon the regional economy. Adverse changes in economic and business conditions in our markets could adversely affect our borrowers, their ability to repay their loans and to borrow additional funds, and consequently our financial condition and performance. Additionally, we often secure our loans with real estate collateral, most of which is located in Allegheny and Butler Counties. A decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of such real estate. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. THE LOSS OF SENIOR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CERTAIN OTHER KEY PERSONNEL COULD HURT OUR BUSINESS. Our success depends, to a great extent, upon the services of Richard G. Spencer, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Michael A. Mooney, our Executive Vice President and Chief Lending Officer. The unexpected loss of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 32 From time to time, we also need to recruit personnel to fill vacant positions for experienced lending and credit administration officers. Competition for qualified personnel in the banking industry is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting, recruiting and retaining the necessary skilled managerial, marketing and technical personnel for the successful operation of our existing lending, operations, accounting and administrative functions or to support the expansion of the functions necessary for our future growth. Our inability to hire or retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. OUR LEGAL LENDING LIMITS ARE RELATIVELY LOW AND RESTRICT OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE FOR LARGER CUSTOMERS. At September 30, 2006, our lending limit per borrower was approximately $12.0 million, or approximately 25% of our capital. Accordingly, the size of loans that we can offer to potential borrowers is less than the size of loans that many of our competitors with larger capitalization are able to offer. We may engage in loan participations with other banks for loans in excess of our legal lending limits. However, there can be no assurance that such participations will be available at all or on terms which are favorable to us and our customers. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK THERE IS A LIMITED TRADING MARKET FOR OUR COMMON STOCK, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT YOUR ABILITY TO SELL YOUR SHARES AND THE PRICE YOU RECEIVE FOR YOUR SHARES. Although our common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market, there has been limited trading activity in our stock and an active trading market is not expected to develop. This means that there may be limited liquidity for our common stock, which may make it difficult to buy or sell our common stock, may negatively affect the price of our common stock and may cause volatility in the price of our common stock. THERE ARE RESTRICTIONS ON OUR ABILITY TO PAY CASH DIVIDENDS. Although we have paid cash dividends on a quarterly basis since 1987, there is no assurance that we will continue to pay cash dividends. Future payment of cash dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and such other factors as the Board may deem relevant and will be subject to applicable federal and state laws that impose restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. OUR COMMON STOCK IS NOT INSURED AND YOU COULD LOSE THE VALUE OF YOUR ENTIRE INVESTMENT. An investment in shares of our common stock is not a deposit and is not insured against loss by the government. OUR MANAGEMENT AND SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDERS CONTROL A SUBSTANTIAL PERCENTAGE OF OUR STOCK AND THEREFORE HAVE THE ABILITY TO EXERCISE SUBSTANTIAL CONTROL OVER OUR AFFAIRS. As of September 30, 2006, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 718,771 shares, or approximately 22.0% of our outstanding common stock, including options to purchase approximately 313,342 shares, in the aggregate, of our common stock at exercise prices ranging from $7.43 to $22.91 per share. Because of the large percentage of stock held by our directors and executive officers and other significant shareholders, these persons could influence the outcome of any matter submitted to a vote of our shareholders. 33 WE MAY ISSUE ADDITIONAL SHARES OF COMMON OR PREFERRED STOCK, WHICH MAY DILUTE THE OWNERSHIP AND VOTING POWER OF OUR SHAREHOLDERS AND THE BOOK VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. We are currently authorized to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of common stock of which 2,960,496 shares are currently outstanding and up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock of which no shares are outstanding. Our Board of Directors has authority, without action or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of the authorized but unissued shares and to establish the terms of any series of preferred stock. These authorized but unissued shares could be issued on terms or in circumstances that could dilute the interests of other stockholders. In addition, a total of 497,442 shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance under our stock option plans including a total of 389,342 shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance under options outstanding on September 30, 2006. As of September 30, 2006, options to purchase a total of 337,575 shares were exercisable and had exercise prices ranging from $7.43 to $22.91. Any such issuance will dilute the percentage ownership interest of shareholders and may further dilute the book value of our common stock. PROVISIONS OF OUR ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION AND THE PENNSYLVANIA BUSINESS CORPORATION LAW COULD DETER TAKEOVERS WHICH ARE OPPOSED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS. Our articles of incorporation require the approval of 75% of our outstanding shares for any merger or consolidation unless the transaction meets certain fair price criteria or the business combination has been approved or authorized by the Board of Directors. As a Pennsylvania corporation with a class of securities registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company is governed by certain provisions of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law that, inter alia, permit the disparate treatment of certain shareholders; prohibit calls of special meetings by shareholders; require unanimous written consent for shareholder action in lieu of a meeting; require shareholder approval for certain transactions in which a shareholder has an interest; and impose additional requirements on business combinations with persons who are the beneficial owners of more than 20% of the Company's stock. OUR SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN COULD HAVE THE EFFECT OF DETERRING ACCUMULATIONS OF OUR COMMON STOCK. The Company has adopted a shareholder rights plan pursuant to which the Company has distributed to each shareholder of record one right for each share held. Each right entitles the holder to purchase 1/100th of a share of the Company's Junior Participating Preferred Stock, Series A which has voting and rights comparable to the share of common stock. The rights do not become exercisable until a person (other than an exempt person) acquires beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the Company's outstanding common stock or commences a tender or exchange offer that would result in the person becoming a 10% or greater beneficial owner (an "Acquiring Person"). In that event, each rights holder other than the Acquiring Person will be entitled to purchase shares of the Company's Junior Participating Preferred Stock, Series A having value equal to twice the exercise price of the rights. In the event the Company merges with an Acquiring Person or an affiliate or associate of the Acquiring Person, the rights entitle holders other than the Acquiring Person to purchase a similar amount of that entity's stock at half price. The effect of the shareholder rights plan would be to significantly dilute the ownership of an Acquiring Person which may deter persons from accumulating large positions in our common stock. 34 RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY WE OPERATE IN A COMPETITIVE MARKET WHICH COULD CONSTRAIN OUR FUTURE GROWTH AND PROFITABILITY. We operate in a competitive environment, competing for deposits and loans with commercial banks, savings associations and other financial entities. Competition for deposits comes primarily from other commercial banks, savings associations, credit unions, money market and mutual funds and other investment alternatives. Competition for loans comes primarily from other commercial banks, savings associations, mortgage banking firms, credit unions and other financial intermediaries. Many of the financial intermediaries operating in our market area offer certain services, such as international banking services, which we do not offer. Moreover, banks with a larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the needs of larger customers. WE ARE REQUIRED TO COMPLY WITH EXTENSIVE AND COMPLEX GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION WHICH CAN ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Our operations are and will be affected by current and future legislation and by the policies established from time to time by various federal and state regulatory authorities. We are subject to supervision and periodic examination by the Federal Reserve Board (the "FRB"), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC") and the Pennsylvania Department of Banking. Banking regulations, designed primarily for the safety of depositors, may limit a financial institution's growth and the return to its investors by restricting such activities as the payment of dividends, mergers with or acquisitions by other institutions, investments, loans and interest rates, interest rates paid on deposits, expansion of branch offices, and the offering of securities or trust services. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by federal law and could be subject to enforcement actions to the extent that we are found by regulatory examiners to be undercapitalized. It is not possible to predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that any such changes may have on our future business and earnings prospects. Further, the cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our ability to operate profitability. In addition, the monetary policies of the FRB have had a significant effect on the operating results of banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the FRB to implement its objectives are changes in the discount rate charged on bank borrowings and changes in the reserve requirements on bank deposits. It is not possible to predict what changes, if any, will be made to the monetary policies of the FRB or to existing federal and state legislation or the effect that such change may have on our future business and earnings prospects. During the past several years, significant legislative attention has been focused on the regulation and deregulation of the financial services industry. Non-bank financial institutions, such as securities brokerage firms, insurance companies and money market funds, have been permitted to engage in activities which compete directly with traditional bank business. 35 WE REALIZE INCOME PRIMARILY FROM THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN INTEREST EARNED ON LOANS AND INVESTMENTS AND INTEREST PAID ON DEPOSITS AND BORROWINGS, AND CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR PROFITABILITY AND ASSETS. Changes in prevailing interest rates may hurt our business. We derive our income mainly from the difference or "spread" between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. In general, the larger the spread, the more we earn. When market rates of interest change, the interest we receive on our assets and the interest we pay on our liabilities will fluctuate. This can cause decreases in our spread and can adversely affect our income. Interest rates affect how much money we can lend. For example, when interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases and loan originations tend to decrease. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and investment securities. A reduction in interest rates generally results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing cost. This causes reinvestment risk, because we generally are not able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Changes in market interest rates could also reduce the value of our financial assets. If we are unsuccessful in managing the effects of changes in interest rates, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. AS A PUBLIC COMPANY, WE ARE SUBJECT TO NUMEROUS REPORTING REQUIREMENTS THAT ARE CURRENTLY EVOLVING AND COULD SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASE OUR OPERATING EXPENSES AND DIVERT MANAGEMENT'S ATTENTION FROM THE OPERATION OF OUR BUSINESS. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. In response to the requirements of that Act, the SEC has promulgated new rules covering a variety of subjects. Compliance with these new rules has significantly increased our legal and financial and accounting costs, and we expect these increased costs to continue. In addition, compliance with the requirements has taken a significant amount of management's and the Board of Directors' time and resources. Likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly independent directors, or qualified executive officers. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the SEC has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company's internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting beginning with fiscal years ending after December 15, 2007. In addition, the public accounting firm auditing the company's financial statements must attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting beginning with fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. The costs associated with the implementation of this requirement, including documentation and testing, have not been estimated by us. If we are ever unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting or, if our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for any future year-ends as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. 36 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS - ----------------------------------- Not applicable. 