Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results An investment in shares of the company's common stock involves risks. The company believes the risks and uncertainties described below and in "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" are the material risks it faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the company or that it currently deems immaterial may impair its business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, the company's business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected, and the trading price of the company's common stock could decline. The company's level of indebtedness could adversely affect its business, results of operations and growth strategy. The company now has and may continue to have a significant amount of debt. At December 31, 2005, the company had $121.6 million of borrowings and $8.5 million in letters of credit outstanding. To the extent the company requires capital resources, there can be no assurance that such funds will be available on favorable terms, or at all. The unavailability of funds could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition, results of operations and ability to expand the company's operations. The company's level of indebtedness could adversely affect it in a number of ways, including the following: • the company may be unable to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • a significant portion of the company's cash flow from operations must be dedicated to debt service, which reduces the amount of cash the company has available for other purposes; • the company may be more vulnerable to a downturn in the company business or economic and industry conditions; • the company may be disadvantaged as compared to its competitors, such as in the ability to adjust to changing market conditions, as a result of the significant amount of debt the company owes; and • the company may be restricted in its ability to make strategic acquisitions and to pursue business opportunities. 11 The company's current credit agreement limits its ability to conduct business, which could negatively affect the company's ability to finance future capital needs and engage in other business activities. The covenants in the company's existing credit agreement contain a number of significant limitations on its ability to, among other things: · pay dividends; · incur additional indebtedness; · create liens on the company's assets; · engage in new lines of business; · make investments; · make capital expenditures and enter into leases; and · acquire or dispose of assets. These restrictive covenants, among others, could negatively affect the company's ability to finance its future capital needs, engage in other business activities or withstand a future downturn in the company's business or the economy. Under the company's current credit agreement, the company is required to maintain certain specified financial ratios and meet financial tests, including certain ratios of leverage and fixed charge coverage. The company's ability to comply with these requirements may be affected by matters beyond its control, and, as a result, the company cannot assure you that it will be able to meet these ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants would prevent the company from being able to draw under the company revolver and would result in a default under the company's credit agreement. In the event of a default under the company's current credit agreement, the lenders could terminate their commitments and declare all amounts borrowed, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be due and payable. Borrowings under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions may also be accelerated and become due and payable. The company may be unable to pay these debts in these circumstances. 12 Competition in the foodservice equipment industry is intense and could impact the company results of operations and cash flows. The company operates in a highly competitive industry. In the company's business, competition is based on product features and design, brand recognition, reliability, durability, technology, energy efficiency, breadth of product offerings, price, customer relationships, delivery lead times, serviceability and after-sale service. The company has a number of competitors in each product line that it offers. Many of the company's competitors are substantially larger and enjoy substantially greater financial, marketing, technological and personnel resources. These factors may enable them to develop similar or superior products, to provide lower cost products and to carry out their business strategies more quickly and efficiently than the company can. In addition, some competitors focus on particular product lines or geographical regions or emphasize their local manufacturing presence or local market knowledge. Some competitors have different pricing structures and may be able to deliver their products at lower prices. Although the company believes that the performance and price characteristics of its products will provide competitive solutions for the company customers' needs, there can be no assurance that the company's customers will continue to choose its products over products offered by the company competitors. Further, the market for the company's products is characterized by changing technology and evolving industry standards. The company's ability to compete in the past has depended in part on the company's ability to develop innovative new products and bring them to market more quickly than the company's competitors. The company's ability to compete successfully will depend, in large part, on its ability to enhance and improve its existing products, to continue to bring innovative products to market in a timely fashion, to adapt the company's products to the needs and standards of the company customers and potential customers and to continue to improve operating efficiencies and lower manufacturing costs. Moreover, competitors may develop technologies or products that render the company's products obsolete or less marketable. If the company's products, markets and services are not competitive, the company's business, financial condition and operating results will be materially harmed. The company is subject to risks associated with developing products and technologies, which could delay product introductions and result in significant expenditures. The company continually seeks to refine and improve upon the performance, utility and physical attributes of its existing products and to develop new products. As a result, the company's business is subject to risks associated with new product and technological development, including unanticipated technical or other problems. The occurrence of any of these risks could cause a substantial change in the design, delay in the development, or abandonment of new technologies and products. Consequently, there can be no assurance that the company will develop new technologies superior to the company's current technologies or successfully bring new products to market. 13 Additionally, there can be no assurance that new technologies or products, if developed, will meet the company's current price or performance objectives, be developed on a timely basis or prove to be as effective as products based on other technologies. The inability to successfully complete the development of a product, or a determination by the company, for financial, technical or other reasons, not to complete development of a product, particularly in instances in which the company has made significant expenditures, could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and operating results. The company's revenues and profits will be adversely affected if it is unable to expand its product offerings, retain its current customers, or attract new customers. The success of the company's business depends, in part, on its ability to maintain and expand the company's product offerings and the company's customer base. The company's success also depends on its ability to offer competitive prices and services in a price sensitive business. Many of the company's larger restaurant chain customers have multiple sources of supply for their equipment purchases and periodically approve new competitive equipment as an alternative to the company's products for use within their restaurants. The company cannot assure you that it will be able to continue to expand the company product lines, or that it will be able to retain the company's current customers or attract new customers. The company also cannot assure you that it will not lose customers to low-cost competitors with comparable or superior products and services. If the company fails to expand its product offerings, or lose a substantial number of the company's current customers or substantial business from current customers, or are unable to attract new customers, the company's business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. The company has depended, and will continue to depend, on key customers for a material portion of its revenues. As a result, changes in the purchasing patterns of such key customers could adversely impact the company's operating results. Many of the company's key customers are large restaurant chains. The number of new store openings by these chains can vary from quarter to quarter depending on internal growth plans, construction, seasonality and other factors. If these chains were to conclude that the market for their type of restaurant has become saturated, they could open fewer restaurants. In addition, during an economic downturn, key customers could both open fewer restaurants and defer purchases of new equipment for existing restaurants. Either of these conditions could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. 14 Price changes in some materials and sources of supply could affect the company's profitability. The company uses large amounts of stainless steel, aluminized steel and other commodities in the manufacture of its products. The price of steel increased significantly during 2004 and has continued to increase in 2005. The significant increase in the price of steel or any other commodity that the company is not able to pass on to its customers would adversely affect the company's operating results. In addition, an interruption in or the cessation of an important supply by any third party and the company's inability to make alternative arrangements in a timely manner, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and operating results. The company's acquisition, investment and alliance strategy involves risks. If the company is unable to effectively manage these risks, its business will be materially harmed. To achieve the company's strategic objectives, it may in the future seek to acquire or invest in other companies, businesses or technologies. Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including the following: • difficulties in the assimilation of acquired businesses or technologies; • diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; • potential assumption of unknown material liabilities; • failure to achieve financial or operating objectives; and • loss of customers or key employees. The company may not be able to successfully integrate any operations, personnel, services or products that it has acquired or may acquire in the future. The company may seek to expand or enhance some of its operations by forming joint ventures or alliances with various strategic partners throughout the world. Entering into joint ventures and alliances also entails risks, including difficulties in developing and expanding the businesses of newly formed joint ventures, exercising influence over the activities of joint ventures in which the company does not have a controlling interest and potential conflicts with the company's joint venture or alliance partners. 15 Expansion of the company's operations internationally involves special challenges that it may not be able to meet. The company's failure to meet these challenges could adversely affect its business, financial condition and operating results. The company plans to continue to expand its operations internationally. The company faces certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets. These risks include: • becoming subject to extensive regulations and oversight, tariffs and other trade barriers; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. In addition, the company will be required to comply with the laws and regulations of foreign governmental and regulatory authorities of each country in which the company conducts business. The company cannot assure you that it will be able to succeed in marketing the company products and services in international markets. The company may also experience difficulty in managing the company's international operations because of, among other things, competitive conditions overseas, management of foreign exchange risk, established domestic markets, language and cultural differences and economic or political instability. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the success of the company's international operations and, consequently, on the company's business, financial condition and operating results. 16 The company may not be able to adequately protect its intellectual property rights, and this inability may materially harm its business. The company relies primarily on trade secret, copyright, service mark, trademark and patent law and contractual protections to protect the company proprietary technology and other proprietary rights. The company has filed numerous patent applications covering the company technology. Notwithstanding the precautions the company takes to protect the company intellectual property rights, it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use the company's proprietary technology without authorization or may otherwise infringe on the company's rights. In some cases, including a number of the company's most important products, there may be no effective legal recourse against duplication by competitors. The company is currently involved in a dispute associated with the development of cooking technology with Enersyst Development Center, LLC, which was acquired by TurboChef Technologies, Inc. in 2004. The company has instituted arbitration proceedings with respect to this dispute and intends to litigate the matter vigorously. In the future, the company may have to rely on litigation to enforce its intellectual property rights, protect its trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to the company and diversions of the company's resources, either of which could adversely affect the company's business. Any infringement by the company on patent rights of others could result in litigation and adversely affect its ability to continue to provide, or could increase the cost of providing, the company's products and services. Patents of third parties may have an important bearing on the company's ability to offer some of its products and services. The company's competitors, as well as other companies and individuals, may obtain, and may be expected to obtain in the future, patents related to the types of products and service the company offers or plan to offer. The company cannot assure you that it is or will be aware of all patents containing claims that may pose a risk of infringement by the company's products and services. In addition, some patent applications in the United States are confidential until a patent is issued and, therefore, the company cannot evaluate the extent to which its products and services may be covered or asserted to be covered by claims contained in pending patent applications. In general, if one or more of the company's products or services were to infringe patents held by others, the company may be required to stop developing or marketing the products or services, to obtain licenses from the holders of the patents to develop and market the services, or to redesign the products or services in such a way as to avoid infringing on the patent claims. The company cannot assess the extent to which it may be required in the future to obtain licenses with respect to patents held by others, whether such licenses would be available or, if available, whether it would be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms. If the company were unable to obtain such licenses, it also may not be able to redesign the company's products or services to avoid infringement, which could materially adversely affect the company's business, financial condition and operating results. 17 The company may be the subject of product liability claims or product recalls, and it may be unable to obtain or maintain insurance adequate to cover potential liabilities. Product liability is a significant commercial risk to the company. The company's business exposes it to potential liability risks that arise from the manufacture, marketing and sale of the company's products. In addition to direct expenditures for damages, settlement and defense costs, there is a possibility of adverse publicity as a result of product liability claims. Some plaintiffs in some jurisdictions have received substantial damage awards against companies based upon claims for injuries allegedly caused by the use of their products. In addition, it may be necessary for the company to recall products that do not meet approved specifications, which could result in adverse publicity as well as costs connected to the recall and loss of revenue. The company cannot be certain that a product liability claim or series of claims brought against it would not have an adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition or results of operations. If any claim is brought against the company, regardless of the success or failure of the claim, the company cannot assure you that it will be able to obtain or maintain product liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities or the cost of a recall. An increase in warranty expenses could adversely affect the company's financial performance. The company offers purchasers of its products warranties covering workmanship and materials typically for one year and, in certain circumstances, for periods of up to ten years, during which period the company or an authorized service representative will make repairs and replace parts that have become defective in the course of normal use. The company estimates and records its future warranty costs based upon past experience. These warranty expenses may increase in the future and may exceed the company's warranty reserves, which, in turn, could adversely affect the company's financial performance. The company is subject to currency fluctuations and other risks from its operations outside the United States. The company has manufacturing operations located in Asia and distribution operations in Asia, Europe and Latin America. The company's operations are subject to the impact of economic downturns, political instability and foreign trade restrictions, which may adversely affect the company's business, financial condition and operating results. The company anticipates that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of consolidated net sales in the foreseeable future. Some sales by the company's foreign operations are in local currency, and an increase in the relative value of the U.S. dollar against such currencies would lead to a reduction in consolidated sales and earnings. Additionally, foreign currency exposures are not fully hedged, and there can be no assurances that the company's future results of operations will not be adversely affected by currency fluctuations. 18 The company is subject to potential liability under environmental laws. The company's operations are regulated under a number of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water as well as the handling, storage and disposal of these materials. Compliance with these environmental laws and regulations is a significant consideration for the company because it uses hazardous materials in the company manufacturing processes. In addition, because the company is a generator of hazardous wastes, even if it fully complies with applicable environmental laws, it may be subject to financial exposure for costs associated with an investigation and remediation of sites at which it has arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes if these sites become contaminated. In the event of a violation of environmental laws, the company could be held liable for damages and for the costs of remedial actions. Environmental laws could also become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with any violation, which could negatively affect the company's operating results. The company's financial performance is subject to significant fluctuations. The company's financial performance is subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations due to a number of factors, including: • the lengthy, unpredictable sales cycle for commercial foodservice equipment; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • unexpected delays in new product introductions; • the level of market acceptance of new or enhanced versions of the company's products; • unexpected changes in the levels of the company's operating expenses; • competitive product offerings and pricing actions; and • general economic conditions. Each of these factors could result in a material and adverse change in the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 The company may be unable to manage its growth. The company has recently experienced rapid growth in business. Continued growth could place a strain on the company's management, operations and financial resources. There also will be additional demands on the company's sales, marketing and information systems and on the company's administrative infrastructure as it develops and offers additional products and enters new markets. The company cannot be certain that the company's operating and financial control systems, administrative infrastructure, outsourced and internal production capacity, facilities and personnel will be adequate to support the company's future operations or to effectively adapt to future growth. If the company cannot manage the company's growth effectively, the company's business may be harmed. The company's business could suffer in the event of a work stoppage by its unionized labor force. Because the company has a significant number of workers whose employment is subject to collective bargaining agreements and labor union representation, the company is vulnerable to possible organized work stoppages and similar actions. Unionized employees accounted for approximately 24% of the company's workforce as of December 31, 2005. At the company's Lodi, Wisconsin facility it has a union contract with the International Association of Bridge, Structural, Ornamental and Reinforcing Iron Workers that extends through January 2008. At the company's Elgin, Illinois facility, it has a union contract with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters that extends through April 2007. The company also has a union workforce at its manufacturing facility in the Philippines under a contract that extends through June 2006. Although the company believes that the current relationships between employees, union and management are good, any future strikes, employee slowdowns or similar actions by one or more unions, in connection with labor contract negotiations or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to operate the company's business. The company depends significantly on its key personnel. The company depends significantly on certain of the company's executive officers and certain other key personnel, many of whom could be difficult to replace. While the company has employment agreements with certain key executives, the company cannot be certain that it will succeed in retaining this personnel or their services under existing agreements. The incapacity, inability or unwillingness of certain of these people to perform their services may have a material adverse effect on the company. There is intense competition for qualified personnel within the company's industry, and the company cannot assure you that it will be able to continue to attract, motivate and retain personnel with the skills and experience needed to successfully manage the company business and operations. 20 The impact of future transactions on the company's common stock is uncertain. The company periodically reviews potential transactions related to products or product rights and businesses complementary to the company's business. Such transactions could include mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, alliances or licensing agreements. In the future, the company may choose to enter into such transactions at any time. The impact of transactions on the market price of a company's stock is often uncertain, but it may cause substantial fluctuations to the market price. Consequently, any announcement of any such transaction could have a material adverse effect upon the market price of the company's common stock. Moreover, depending upon the nature of any transaction, the company may experience a charge to earnings, which could be material and could possibly have an adverse impact upon the market price of the company's common stock. Future sales or issuances of equity or convertible securities could depress the market price of the company's common stock and be dilutive and affect the company's ability to raise funds through equity issuances. If the company's stockholders sell substantial amounts of the company's common stock or the company issues substantial additional amounts of the company's equity securities, or there is a belief that such sales or issuances could occur, the market price of the company's common stock could fall. These factors could also make it more difficult for the company to raise funds through future offerings of equity securities. The market price of the company's common stock may be subject to significant volatility. The market price of the company's common stock may be highly volatile because of a number of factors, including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in the company's operating results; • changes in expectations as to the company's future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; • the operating performance and stock price of other companies in the company's industry; • announcements by the company or the company's competitors of new products or significant contracts, acquisitions, joint ventures or capital commitments; • changes in interest rates; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • future sales or issuances of the company's common stock. 21 In addition, the stock markets from time to time experience price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of the company's common stock, regardless of the company's operating performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 22 Item 