Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Associated with Our Liquidation and Dissolution In addition to other information in this annual report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our liquidation and dissolution because such factors may have a significant impact on the execution of our Plan of Dissolution and the timing and amount of future liquidating distributions, if any, to our shareholders. As a result of the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, and the risks discussed in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. We cannot assure you of the exact amount or timing of any future distribution to our shareholders under the Plan of Dissolution. The liquidation and dissolution process is subject to numerous uncertainties and may result in less than anticipated or no remaining capital available for future distribution to our shareholders. The precise nature, amount and timing of any future distribution to our shareholders will depend on and could be delayed by, among other things, sales of non-cash assets, claim settlements with creditors, resolution of outstanding litigation matters, new claims filed by third parties, whether our insurance policies will provide coverage for defense costs and any damages payable under our outstanding and any future litigation matters, and unexpected or greater than expected expenses. We cannot assure you that we will successfully defend against the outstanding litigation matters filed against us or any new claims filed against us. In addition, regardless of the merit or eventual outcome of our existing litigation matters or any new claims which may be filed against us, these existing or potential litigation matters may result in the expenditure of a significant amount of cash for legal fees, expenses or payment of settlements. Furthermore, we cannot provide any assurances that we will actually make additional distributions. The estimates we have provided are based on currently available information, and actual payments, if any, could be less than or more than the range we have estimated. Any amounts to be distributed to our shareholders may be less than the price or prices at which our common stock has recently traded or may trade in the future. Our common stock is continuing to trade even though we are in the process of liquidation and liquidating distributions, if any, may be below any trading price. Effective at the close of business on October 12, 2005, we voluntarily de-listed our common stock and closed our transfer books. Our common stock was traded on the Nasdaq National Market (Nasdaq) under the symbol “REMC.” Since the de-listing, our common stock has been trading in on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol “REMC.OB.” It has been trading under “due-bill” contractual obligations between the seller and purchaser of the stock, who negotiate and rely on themselves with respect to the allocation of shareholder proceeds arising from ownership of the shares. No assignments or transfers of our common stock were recorded or will be recorded after October 12, 2005. Trading in our stock is highly speculative and the market for our stock is highly illiquid. The only value associated with our shares is the right to receive further distributions, if any, as part of the liquidation process. Because of the difficulty in estimating the amount and timing of the liquidating distributions, and due to the other risk factors discussed herein, our common stock may be subject to significant volatility and may trade above the amount of any liquidating distribution that is made. We may not be able to settle all of our obligations to creditors and resolve all litigation in a favorable manner. If we do not settle all of our obligations to creditors and resolve all of our outstanding and any new litigation, we may be prevented from completing our Plan of Dissolution. Our obligations to creditors include, among other things, long-term contractual obligations. The Company’s commitments and contingencies include claims and litigation against the Company. While the Company is vigorously defending against these matters, the outcome of pending litigation is not determinable. In addition, we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert additional claims or litigation against us, including but not limited to claims arising prior to the adoption of the Plan of Dissolution and the sale of our business units and assets. For example, to the extent that liability for product warranties was not assumed by the purchasers of our former business units, defects or errors in products and component parts designed and manufactured by certain former REMEC subsidiaries could result in legal claims against us. These potential claims may result in additional liability to the Company. Any new claims filed by third parties could further delay us from completing the Plan of Dissolution. As part of the wind up process, we will attempt to settle our obligations with our creditors and resolve all of the outstanding litigation. Our inability to reach settlement with our creditors and resolve outstanding litigation in a favorable manner could delay or even prevent us from completing the Plan of Dissolution. Amounts required to settle our obligations to creditors 3 Table of Contents and to resolve our outstanding and any new litigation will reduce the amount of remaining capital available for future distribution to shareholders. The ultimate settlement, if any, may vary significantly from amounts presently accrued. Any unfavorable settlement could materially affect our financial position and net assets in liquidation. The amounts of settlements or damage payments, if we do not successfully defend cases that are not settled, could reduce future distributions to the lower end, or below the lower end, of our current estimated distribution range. We will continue to incur liabilities and expenses that will reduce the amount available for distribution out of the liquidation to shareholders. Liabilities and expenses from operations, such as operating costs, directors and officers liability insurance, payroll and local taxes, legal, accounting and consulting fees and miscellaneous office expenses, will continue to be incurred as we wind up our operations and implement our Plan of Dissolution. We have an obligation to continue to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, even though compliance with such reporting requirements is economically burdensome until the Company is fully dissolved. These expenses and liabilities will reduce the amount of assets available for future distribution out of the liquidation to shareholders. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report must contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and audited financial statements as of the end of our fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. This annual report on Form 10-K does not require an attestation from the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, but we will be required to obtain that attestation as early as the annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending January 31, 2010. We have an obligation to continue to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, even though compliance with such reporting requirements is economically burdensome until the Company is fully dissolved. We may be subject to final examinations by taxing authorities across various jurisdictions which may impact the amount of taxes that we pay and the ultimate distributions to our shareholders. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company accrues charges for probable exposures. At January 31, 2009, the Company believes it has appropriately accrued for probable exposures. To the extent the Company were to prevail in matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of these accruals, the Company’s effective tax rate in a given financial statement period could be materially affected. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company’s provision for income taxes payable. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Our reported results may be subject to final examination by taxing authorities. Because many transactions are subject to varying interpretations of the applicable federal, state or foreign tax laws, our reported tax liabilities and taxes may be subject to change at a later date upon final determination by the taxing authorities. The impact of this final determination on our estimated tax obligations could increase or decrease amounts of cash available for distribution to our shareholders, perhaps significantly. Distribution of cash out of the liquidation, if any, to our shareholders could be delayed. Although our Board of Directors has not established a firm timetable for future cash liquidating distributions to our shareholders, the Board of Directors intends, subject to contingencies inherent in winding up our business, to make such distributions as promptly as practicable as creditor and litigant claims are paid, settled or resolved. However, we are currently unable to predict the precise timing of any such distributions. The timing of such distributions will depend on and could be delayed by, among other things, sales of non-cash assets, claim settlements with creditors, new claims made by third parties and the settlement or the final resolution of any outstanding or future litigation matters. Additionally, a creditor could seek an injunction against the making of such distributions to our shareholders on the grounds that the amount to be distributed was needed to provide for the payment of our liabilities and expenses. Any action of this type could delay or diminish the amount available for such distribution to our shareholders. 4 Table of Contents If we fail to create an adequate contingency reserve for payment of our expenses and liabilities, each shareholder could be held liable for payment to our creditors of his or her pro rata share of amounts owed to creditors in excess of the contingency reserve, up to the amount actually distributed to such shareholder. In the event we fail to create an adequate contingency reserve for payment of our expenses and liabilities, each shareholder could be held liable for payment to our creditors of such shareholder’s pro rata share of amounts owed to creditors in excess of the contingency reserve, up to the amount actually distributed to such shareholder. Although the liability of any shareholder is limited to the amounts previously received by such shareholder from us (and from any liquidating trust or trusts) in the dissolution, this means that a shareholder could be required to return all distributions previously made to such shareholder and receive nothing from us under the Plan of Dissolution. Moreover, in the event a shareholder has paid taxes on amounts previously received, a repayment of all or a portion of such amount could result in a shareholder incurring a net tax cost if the shareholder’s repayment of an amount previously distributed does not cause a commensurate reduction in taxes payable. While we will endeavor to make adequate reserves for all known and contingent liabilities, there is no guarantee that the reserves established by us will be adequate to cover all such expenses and liabilities. Our Board of Directors may determine to turn management of the liquidation of REMEC, Inc. over to a third party, and some or all of our directors may resign from our board at that time. Our Board of Directors may determine at any time that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to turn the management of the Company over to a third party to complete the liquidation of our remaining assets and distribute the available proceeds to our shareholders, and some or all of our directors may resign from our board at that time. If management is turned over to a third party and all of our directors resign from our board, the third party would have sole control over the liquidation process, including the sale or distribution of any remaining assets. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 