Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risk associated with our liquidation. In addition to other information in this annual report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully reviewed because such factors may have a significant impact on the execution of the Plan of Dissolution and the timing and amount of future liquidating distributions, if any, to our beneficial unit holders. As a result of the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, and the risks discussed in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. We cannot assure you of the exact amount or timing of any future distribution to our beneficial unit holders. The liquidation and dissolution process is subject to numerous uncertainties and may result in less than anticipated or no remaining capital available for future distribution to our beneficial unit holders. The precise nature, amount and timing of any future distribution to our beneficial unit holders will depend on and could be delayed by, among other things, currently unknown creditor claims or lawsuits and unexpected or greater than expected expenses. Furthermore, we cannot provide any assurances that we will actually make additional distributions. The estimates we have provided are based on currently available information, and actual distributions, if any, could be less than or more than the range we have estimated. We will continue to incur liabilities and expenses that will reduce the amount available for distribution out of the liquidation to beneficial unit holders. Liabilities and expenses from operations, such as insurance, legal, accounting and consulting fees and other operating expenses, will continue to be incurred as we complete the Plan of Dissolution. These expenses and liabilities will reduce the amount of assets available for future distribution to beneficial unit holders. If our existing contingency reserve for payment of our expenses and liabilities is inadequate, the amount available for distribution to beneficial unit holders could be reduced, or if any liability exceeds our remaining assets, each beneficial unit holder could be held liable for payment to our creditors of his or her pro rata share of amounts owed to creditors in excess of the Trust’s remaining assets, up to the amount actually distributed to each such beneficial unit holder. Although the liability of any beneficial unit holder is limited to the amounts received by such beneficial unit holder, both as a shareholder of REMEC Inc., common stock, and as a beneficiary of the Trust, from either REMEC, Inc. or the Trust in the liquidation process, a beneficiary could be required to return all distributions previously made to such shareholder/beneficiary and receive nothing from us, if amounts required to settle the Trust’s remaining liabilities exceed available assets. Moreover, in the event a shareholder/beneficiary has paid taxes on amounts previously received, a repayment of all or a portion of such amount could result in the beneficial unit holder incurring a net tax cost if the beneficial unit holder’s repayment of an amount previously distributed does not cause a commensurate reduction in taxes payable. While we have endeavored to make adequate reserves for all known and contingent liabilities, there is no guarantee that the reserves established by us, or our remaining assets will be adequate to cover all such expenses and liabilities. We may be subject to final examinations by taxing authorities across various jurisdictions, which may impact the amount of taxes that we pay and the ultimate distributions to our beneficiaries. The Trust evaluates its probable exposures associated with the tax filing positions of both REMEC and the Trust. At December 31, 2011, the Trust believes it has no such exposures, and accordingly has not accrued any such charges. Significant judgment is required in determining the Trust’s provision for income taxes payable, and as a result, the Trust’s determinations may not prove to be accurate. REMEC and/or the Trust may be subject to final examination by taxing authorities; thus, a final determination by the taxing authorities could increase or decrease amounts of cash available for distribution to our shareholders, perhaps significantly. A Successor Trustee may need to be appointed to complete the Plan of Dissolution, which could delay the final distribution and closing of the Trust. The Trust Agreement provides that in the event of the resignation, removal, incapacity or other reason for the Trustee’s inability to continue to serve as Trustee, a Successor Trustee will be appointed. In such event, there may be a delay in the administration of the Trust while the Successor Trustee is appointed and takes office, which may delay the final liquidating distribution, if any, and the closure of the Trust. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 