ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our liquidation and dissolution because such factors may have a significant impact on the execution of our Plan of Dissolution and the timing and amount of liquidating distributions, if any, to our shareholders. As a result of the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, and the risks discussed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. We cannot assure you of the exact amount or timing of any future distribution to our shareholders under the Plan of Dissolution. The liquidation and dissolution process is subject to numerous uncertainties and may not result in any remaining capital for future distribution to our shareholders. The precise nature, amount and timing of any future distribution to our shareholders will depend on and could be delayed by, among other things, sales of our non-cash assets, claim settlements with creditors, resolution of outstanding litigation matters, and unexpected or greater than expected expenses. Furthermore, we cannot provide any assurances that we will actually make additional distributions. The estimates we have provided are based on currently available information, and actual payments, if any, could be substantially less than the range we have estimated. Any amounts to be distributed to our shareholders may be less than the price or prices at which our common stock has recently traded or may trade in the future. Our common stock is continuing to trade even though we are in the process of liquidation and liquidating distributions, if any, may be below any trading price. On October 13, 2005, we voluntarily de-listed our common stock and closed our transfer books. Our common stock was traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol “REMC.” Since the de-listing, our common stock has been trading in the Over the Counter Market’s “Bulletin Board” under the symbol “REMC.OB”. It has been trading under “due-bill” contractual obligations between the seller and purchaser of the stock, who negotiate and rely on themselves with respect to the allocation of shareholder proceeds arising from ownership of the shares. No assignments or transfers of our common stock were recorded or will be recorded after October 12, 2005. Trading in our stock is highly speculative and the market for our stock is highly illiquid. The only value associated with our shares is the right to receive further distributions as part of the liquidation process. Because of the difficulty in estimating the amount and timing of the liquidating distributions, and due to the other risk factors discussed herein, our common stock may be subject to significant volatility and may trade above the amount of any liquidating distribution that is made. 4 Table of Contents We may not be able to settle all of our obligations to creditors and resolve all of our outstanding litigation. If we do not settle all of our obligations to creditors and resolve all of our outstanding litigation, we may be prevented from completing our Plan of Dissolution. Our obligations to creditors include, among other things, long-term contractual obligations to certain customers, including certain product warranties, and contractual obligations to certain of our vendors. The Company’s commitments and contingencies include claims and litigation arising out of our previous ordinary course of business. As part of the wind down process, we will attempt to settle our obligations with our creditors and resolve all of the outstanding litigation. Our inability to reach settlement with our creditors and resolve outstanding litigation could delay or even prevent us from completing the Plan of Dissolution. Amounts required to settle our obligations to creditors and resolve any outstanding litigation will reduce the amount of remaining capital available for future distribution to shareholders. Some of our customers have filed or may file for breach of contract and breach of express and implied warranties with regard to products sold by the Company. Our products consist of and incorporate numerous component parts designed and manufactured by certain REMEC subsidiaries. We cannot assure you that these products and/or parts are free of defects or errors. Given the complex nature of our products and our dependence on a large number of highly intricate component parts, our products may contain defects or errors not detectable during our quality assurance and testing procedures. Any such defects or errors could result in legal claims against us. We will continue to incur claims, liabilities and expenses that will reduce the amount available for distribution out of the liquidation to shareholders. Claims, liabilities and expenses from operations, such as operating costs, directors’ and officers’ insurance, payroll and local taxes, legal, accounting and consulting fees and miscellaneous office expenses, will continue to be incurred as we wind down. These expenses will reduce the amount of assets available for future distribution out of the liquidation to shareholders. If available cash and amounts received on the sale of non-cash assets are not adequate to provide for our obligations, liabilities, expenses and claims, we may not be able to distribute meaningful cash out of the liquidation, or any cash at all, to our shareholders. We may be subject to final examinations by taxing authorities across various jurisdictions which may impact the amount of taxes that we pay and the ultimate distributions to our shareholders In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company accrues charges for probable exposures. At January 31, 2006, the Company believes it has appropriately accrued for probable exposures. To the extent the Company were to prevail in matters for which accruals have been established or be required to pay amounts in excess of these accruals, the Company’s effective tax rate in a given financial statement period could be materially affected. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company’s provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Our reported results may be subject to final examination by taxing authorities. Because many transactions are subject to varying interpretations of the applicable federal, state or foreign tax laws, our reported tax liabilities and taxes may be subject to change at a later date upon final determination by the taxing authorities. The impact of this final determination on our estimated tax obligations could increase or decrease amounts of cash available for distribution to our shareholders, perhaps significantly. Distribution of cash out of the liquidation, if any, to our shareholders could be delayed. Although our Board of Directors has not established a firm timetable for distributions to our shareholders out of the liquidation, the Board of Directors intends, subject to contingencies inherent in winding down our 5 Table of Contents business, to make such distributions as promptly as practicable as creditor and litigant claims are paid or settled. However, we are currently unable to predict the precise timing of any such distributions. The timing of such distributions will depend on and could be delayed by, among other things, the timing of sales of our non-cash assets, claim settlements with creditors and the settlement of any outstanding litigation matters. Additionally, a creditor could seek an injunction against the making of such distributions to our shareholders on the grounds that the amount to be distributed was needed to provide for the payment of our liabilities and expenses. Any action of this type could delay or substantially diminish the amount available for such distribution to our shareholders. If we fail to create an adequate contingency reserve for payment of our expenses and liabilities, each shareholder could be held liable for payment to our creditors of his or her pro rata share of amounts owed to creditors in excess of the contingency reserve, up to the amount actually distributed to such shareholder. In the event we fail to create an adequate contingency reserve for payment of our expenses and liabilities, each shareholder could be held liable for payment to our creditors of such shareholder’s pro rata share of amounts owed to creditors in excess of the contingency reserve, up to the amount actually distributed to such shareholder. Although the liability of any shareholder is limited to the amounts previously received by such shareholder from us (and from any liquidating trust or trusts) in the dissolution, this means that a shareholder could be required to return all distributions previously made to such shareholder and receive nothing from us under the Plan of Dissolution. Moreover, in the event a shareholder has paid taxes on amounts previously received, a repayment of all or a portion of such amount could result in a shareholder incurring a net tax cost if the shareholder’s repayment of an amount previously distributed does not cause a commensurate reduction in taxes payable. While we will endeavor to make adequate reserves for all known and contingent liabilities, there is no guarantee that the reserves established by us will be adequate to cover all such expenses and liabilities. We will continue to incur the expenses of complying with public company reporting requirements. We have an obligation to continue to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, referred to as the “Exchange Act,” even though compliance with such reporting requirements is economically burdensome until the Company is fully dissolved. Our Board of Directors may at any time turn management of the liquidation of REMEC, Inc. over to a third party, and some or all of our directors may resign from our board at that time. Our Board of Directors may at any time turn the management of the Company over to a third party to complete the liquidation of our remaining assets and distribute the available proceeds to our shareholders, and some or all of our directors may resign from our board at that time. If management is turned over to a third party and all of our directors resign from our board, the third party would have sole control over the liquidation process, including the sale or distribution of any remaining assets. 6 Table of Contents 