D. RISK FACTORS Our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed due to any of the following risks, among others. If we do not successfully address the risks to which we are subject, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our share price may decline, which may result in a loss of all or part of your investment. We cannot assure you that we will successfully address any of these risks. You should carefully consider the following factors as well as the other information contained and incorporated by reference in this annual report before taking any investment decision with respect to our securities. See “Forward Looking Statements” on page vi above. If we do not develop new and enhanced products which are acceptable to our customers, we will go out of business. We are mainly engaged in the area of security alarm systems. The introduction of new products or services or enhancements embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices can, within a relatively short period, render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Accordingly, in order for us to grow and remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to anticipate changes in technology, environmental and industry standards. We will also have to successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products which can gain market acceptance on a timely basis. If we are not able to successfully compete in the extremely competitive markets for security and alarm products, we will not be profitable. We may not be able to compete profitably with other security products’ companies on a long-term basis. We experience substantial competition in our business from regional, national and international corporations. We have numerous competitors, which include large international firms. Many of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources, research and development personnel, facilities, marketing and distribution networks, name recognition and more extensive customer bases than we do. We may not be able to successfully differentiate our products from those of our competitors or assure that the marketplace will consider our products superior to those of our competitors. In addition, our competitors may develop products that render our products obsolete or less competitive. Furthermore, local and international standardization requirements constitute a prerequisite for any successful market penetration and we may not obtain all the necessary approvals. 4 We rely substantially on our suppliers, and our business operations could be negatively affected if they are unable to supply us in a timely fashion. Our products include a number of high-technology components that are available from only a few suppliers. We sometimes require large volumes of such components. If our suppliers are unable to fulfill our needs for such components, we may be unable to fill customer orders and our business and financial condition, including working capital and results of operations, may be negatively affected. Since part of our strategy is to shorten product development and introduction cycles, occasions may arise in the future where our ability to produce products may outpace our suppliers’ ability to supply components. There can be no assurance that we can continue to obtain adequate supplies or obtain such supplies at their historical cost levels. Moreover, our suppliers may, from time to time, experience production shortfalls or interruptions, which could impair the supply of components to us. There can be no assurance that such shortages will not occur in the future and such shortages could delay or prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products for an indeterminate period and would adversely affect our business and financial condition, including working capital and results of operations. We currently do not have agreements in writing with most of our customers and suppliers. Our contractual relationships with most of our suppliers and customers are not structured in written agreements and consequently reliance is placed on the course of our dealings with most of our suppliers and customers based on outline terms and conditions. The lack of formal written agreements may give rise to the risk of potential disputes as to the precise terms and conditions governing such agreements. The market for our products is characterized by frequent new product introductions, changing market demands and technological innovations. These factors expose us to risks in sales fluctuations, price margins, and market share changes. The market for our products is characterized by frequent new product introductions, changing market demands and technological innovations. We must continually monitor industry trends and develop new technologies and features to incorporate into our products. Each new product cycle presents our current or prospective competitors opportunities to gain market share. Life cycles of individual products are typically characterized by steep declines in unit sales, pricing and margins toward the end of a product’s life, the precise timing of which may be difficult to predict. As new products are planned and introduced, we attempt to monitor closely the inventory of older products and to phase out their manufacturing in an orderly manner. Nevertheless, we could experience unexpected reductions in sales volume and prices of older generation products as customers anticipate new products. These reductions could give rise to charges for obsolete or excess inventory. To the extent that we are unsuccessful in managing product transitions, we will fail to be competitive in the security and alarm industries and our customers may purchase products from our competitors causing a decrease in our sales and a reduction of our working capital and our results of operations. Our concentration on one main field of business can increase our vulnerability in a number of areas. Our concentration on one main field of business – security systems – increases our vulnerability to changes in design, procurement practices of original equipment manufacturers, product substitution, consumer preferences, insurance underwriting practices and the historical cyclicality of the market. As a result, a significant change in any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, including working capital and results of operations. 5 If the management and key personnel, upon whose services we depend, depart, our efficiency and profitability and growth may be harmed; we do not maintain key man life insurance policies on any of our officers or directors. We are substantially dependent upon the continued services of our key management personnel, particularly Mr. Shmuel Melman, who serves as the Chief Executive Officer of both Crow and Orev. In addition, we are substantially dependent upon the continued services of the CEO and the key personnel of ArrowHead Alarm Products Ltd., one of our subsidiaries, which provides us with R & D and support services in connection with our control panels’ line of products. The loss of Mr. Melman’s services, the services of the key personnel of ArrowHead or the services of other key management personnel, could reduce the efficiency and profitability of our business. For additional information regarding the employment agreement of Mr. Melman, please see Item 7.B – “Related Party Transactions” below. Currently, we do not maintain key man life insurance policies on any of our officers or directors, including Mr. Melman. If we are not able to retain or attract key personnel, we will not be able to increase the growth of our business or develop new products. Our success will also depend, to a significant extent, upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, particularly technical, managerial, marketing and research and development personnel. We may not be able to attract or retain our skilled personnel or recruit additional skilled personnel. There is intense competition in the alarm and security industry for such highly skilled personnel, and we will be required to compete for such personnel with companies having substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Our research and development programs could be limited and our ability to introduce new products could be delayed, if we are unable to recruit such personnel in a timely manner. These programs are critical to our ability to successfully develop new and enhanced products required to satisfy customer demand. Loss of or disagreement with our major customers would adversely affect our business. Three of our customers accounted for approximately 23% of our sales during 2005. If we were to lose any of these customers, our sales would decline substantially and our business would be hurt materially. In addition, most of the arrangements with our customers, including with the three major customers referred to above, do not provide for a minimum term or for an obligation to purchase a minimum quantity of our products. In addition, since we have recently entered into OEM/ODM agreements with global companies and expect an increase in our business activity, we may also be exposed to increased liabilities under said agreements in the event that we breach any of their terms or suffer termination of the agreement, which will reduce our expected growth. 6 We depend on a single supplier of components for our special application mobile phone products in development. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if our supplier fails to provide us with adequate supplies of such components on a timely basis. Our investment in special application mobile phones products involves special risks. We have commenced developing new mobile phones with special features and applications and invest some resources in research, development and testing. There are no reassurances that our efforts will be successful. We do not manufacture some components essential for our mobile phone products that are currently being developed by us. Such components are being manufactured for us by a third party. If this manufacturer becomes unwilling or unable to provide us with such components, we may not be able to find alternative sources. We partly depend on independent distributors to sell our products. If these distributors do not succeed in selling our products, or if we are not able to maintain our relationship with them, our revenues and income will decline. We sell significant portion of our products through independent distributors that are not under our direct control. We are dependent on their active marketing and sales efforts to convince their customers to purchase our products. The loss of one of our major third party distributors could impair our ability to sell our products and result in lower revenues and income. In the event of severance of our relationship with any such distributor, we may be unable to immediately locate an alternative distributor to market our products, which may adversely affect our business. For example, we recently terminated our exclusive distribution relations with Crow Electronic Engineering Inc., our distributor in North America and are currently examining suitable distribution channels in its stead. In the event that we will not be able to replace this distributor in a timely manner and with a competent distributor, our turnover from this territory may be reduced. For more information, see Item 4.B. – Business Overview, under the caption “Customers, Marketing and Sales” below. Our success and ability to compete are dependent to a significant degree on our proprietary technology. Our products employ proprietary technology that is difficult to protect and which may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. This may cause lawsuits or injunctions, which will limit our ability to conduct our business and may reduce our ability to remain profitable. Some of the technology owned by us is not protected from infringement of intellectual property rights by third parties. In addition, in respect of some of our technology owned by us, we rely upon a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, together with non-disclosure agreements and technical measures to establish and protect proprietary rights in our products. These efforts may not provide meaningful protection for our technology due to a variety of factors including: — some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States and Israel; — if a competitor were to infringe on our proprietary rights, enforcing our rights may be time consuming, costly, and may divert our resources as well as our management's attention; 7 — most of our non-disclosure agreements set a maximum period of compliance (usually of up to five years), after which period the other party may disclose or use the information; — we are not always able to enter into non-disclosure agreements; — measures like entering into non-disclosure agreements afford only limited protection; — unauthorized parties may attempt to copy certain aspects of our products and develop similar products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary; and — competitors may be able to independently develop products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products, or otherwise evade our intellectual property rights. In addition, it is possible that one or more third parties will assert infringement claims against us. The cost of responding to infringement claims could be significant, regardless of whether or not the claims are substantiated. Most of our trade receivables are not secured and if a substantial amount of such trade receivables is not paid to us it will have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Most of our trade receivables are not secured. If a substantial amount of such trade receivables is not paid to us, we may not be able to collect payments owed to us. We are not insured against this risk; however, we are currently finalizing the obtaining of an insurance policy which would cover some of the risks resulting from the non-payment of unsecured debt. The loans we provide to our related corporations are not secured and if not paid, we could lose a substantial amount of money. The unsecured loans that we provide to our related corporations currently amount to approximately NIS 9.1 million. If such loans are not paid, we could lose a substantial amount of money. We are exposed to risks relating to international sales and purchases which may reduce our profitability. Approximately ninety percent (90%) of our product sales are exports, or sales outside of Israel, primarily to Europe, the United States and Australia. Exports have accounted for all of our recent growth. These international sales and our purchases from foreign suppliers are exposed to the risks inherent in international business activities, including the following: — fluctuation in currency exchange rates or restrictions on conversion of foreign currencies; 8 — unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers; — difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; — political instability; — reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; — burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; and — potentially adverse tax consequences. Moreover, two of our consolidated subsidiaries (ArrowHead Alarm Products and Crow Australia) operate abroad and are subject to the legal, economic, social and political conditions of New Zealand and Australia, respectively. Our international business activities may also be affected by acts of terrorism and the resulting responses thereto (such as the closure of borders), including in countries where our products are distributed. This risk is not covered by our insurance policy. In addition, our products are required to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals of governmental agencies in some of these international markets. The regulatory requirements in each country are different and may change from time to time. The approvals that have been obtained may not remain sufficient. In addition, we may not obtain approvals on a timely basis in all jurisdictions in which we desire to sell our products, and restrictions on the use of these products may affect our ability to sell our products in these markets and to successfully compete with our competitors. If we are unable to manage future and current growth and acquisitions, our business will be negatively impacted. Our growth strategy contemplates the expansion of our distribution network and the acquisitions of related products and businesses. We have undertaken steps to enter into the telecommunication market and expand our business to new fields; however, there are risks associated with entering into a new business field and there is no assurance of success at this stage for new products developed in such field. The expansion of our business and the sale of our products into new markets according to our business plan will be dependent, in part, upon our ability to engage capable and efficient distributors; and to identify, finance and acquire suitable businesses on favorable terms and then to integrate and manage the acquired businesses quickly and successfully. Expansion through extensive engagements with distributors involves special risks due to the fact that we may not have complete control over the distributor’s marketing policy. This could adversely affect our reputation and volume of sales. 9 Acquisitions involve special risks, including risks associated with: — unanticipated liabilities; — diversion of management's attention; — possible reduction of earnings resulting from diverted management attention; — possible reduction of earnings resulting from increased goodwill amortization; — potential increased interest costs; — dependence on retention, hiring and training of key personnel; and — difficulties relating to the integration of the acquired businesses. We may not be able to identify, finance or acquire acceptable acquisition candidates on terms that are favorable to us and in a timely manner to the extent necessary to fulfill this growth strategy. With respect to the integration of acquired businesses outside of Israel, we have encountered special difficulties and risks relating to our limited ability to oversee the operations of the foreign subsidiaries’ executives. Currently, these subsidiaries are managed by the minority shareholders who reside in their principal place of business. The distance and lack of immediate executive authority on our behalf could result in substandard management and business procedures and could therefore have an adverse affect on our internal controls and results of operations. We currently hold, through Orev, interests in a number of developing corporations. In addition, as stated above, we are currently involved in certain projects which require monetary investment and are at their initial stages. The volatility of the financial condition and results of operations characteristic of developing corporations, and our investments in new projects which profitability and success are uncertain, could adversely affect our business results. In order to manage any future growth, we will have to expand our operational and financial control systems, as well as significantly increase our research and development, marketing, distribution and support capabilities. Such activities may place a significant strain on our resources. Our ability to achieve and manage our growth will depend on a number of factors, including the availability of working capital to support such growth, existing and emerging competition and the ability to maintain sufficient profit margins. Continued growth could also place additional demands on administrative, operational and financial resources. We may not be able to continue to achieve or manage growth effectively, and it is possible that future acquisitions and development projects will not succeed and therefore adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 10 We could be liable for costly product and professional liability claims which may affect our profitability and our reputation. Product and professional liability claims may be asserted against us if the use of our products, or improper advice provided by us relating to the use of the products or other products which incorporate our products, are alleged to cause injury or other adverse effects. In one of our production lines in 2000, we had a defective component which we recalled, and as a result, suffered a short-term financial setback. We replaced the component and/or product to the satisfaction of our customers, and we believe that there is no risk of future litigation arising from this component, as we have not received any notice of threatened litigation with respect to this defective component. Although we have product liability insurance and professional liability insurance, our existing policies may not be adequate to protect us against potential claims. Accordingly, a successful claim against us could force us to pay out significant sums of money to satisfy such claims and could cause us to recall certain products or components and could result in our customers reducing or canceling existing orders, which would substantially reduce our revenues. In addition, our reputation may be harmed by product and professional liability claims regardless of the merit or eventual outcome of the claim. Our major shareholders have substantial control over most matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders. As of July 13, 2006, Mr. Shmuel Melman holds approximately 33% of our shares, Mr. Jacob Eilenberg (through a trustee, Mr. Asher Barak) holds approximately 24.4% of our shares, and Sender Holdings Inc. and Mr. Silver (the controlling person of Sender) collectively hold approximately 14.1% of our shares. Mr. Asher Barak (who acts as Mr. Eilenberg’s trustee) is the sole director of Sender Holdings Inc. In addition, Mr. Melman, Mr. Eilenberg (through his trustee Mr. Barak), Sender and Mr. Silver are parties to a shareholders’ agreement pursuant to which, among other things, they will vote in concert for the appointment of at least 4 directors to our board of directors (should Melman, Eilenberg and Sender all agree on the identity of a fifth director, they shall also vote their shares for his/her appointment). Our board of directors is currently composed of 7 directors, of which 2 directors are independent. The above mentioned shareholders have the power to control the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of the shareholders, as well as to prevent corporate transactions such as mergers, consolidations or a sale of substantially all of our assets, which might be viewed as favorable by other shareholders. The ability of our other shareholders to affect our activities could be limited. See Item 7.A – Major Shareholders, for information concerning the holdings and voting rights of our major shareholders and concerning the Fortissimo transaction; and Item 10.B – Memorandum and Articles of Association, for additional information regarding the election of directors. The nature of the trading market for our ordinary shares may lead to lack of liquidity. Our ordinary shares are currently quoted on the Over The Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB), a quotation system for equity securities. The OTCBB generally has a more limited trading market than the NASDAQ Stock Market. Accordingly, our shareholders may find that our ordinary shares may lack liquidity and are difficult to sell. The volume of our shares that are traded on the OTCBB may be low due, in part, to the marketability of our ordinary shares. Accordingly, the activity of only a few shares may affect our market price and may result in considerable fluctuations in the price and volume of our shares. Any fluctuations in the price of our ordinary shares may be magnified into a material reduction in price because relatively few buyers may be available to purchase our shares. 11 The market price of our ordinary shares has been, and may continue to be, volatile. This may lead to difficulties in raising capital according to our business plan. Historically, the market price of our ordinary shares has been extremely volatile and subject to wide fluctuations which have negatively affected their market value. Should this high volatility in price and volume fluctuation continue, it is possible that our ordinary shares will trade below their fair market value. This may result in difficulties in raising additional capital which we may need in order to operate and grow our business according to our business plan. The following factors may have a significant impact on the future market price of our ordinary shares: — the nature of the trading market for our shares; — periodic fluctuations in financial results; — failure to meet the expectations of investors or security analysts; — announcement of technological innovations or new products by us and/or our competitors; — developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights; — publicity regarding actual or potential results relating to products under development by us or our competitors; — regulatory developments in Israel and abroad; — delays in our development schedules; and — economic and other external factors. We do not anticipate paying dividends. Although we have paid cash dividends in the past, currently we have not established a dividend policy and do not presently anticipate paying any cash dividends in the future. Our board of directors will determine whether or not to declare cash dividends in the future in light of conditions then existing, including our earnings and financial condition, and subject to the provisions of the Israeli Companies Law of 1999. Presently, and as long as any amounts remain outstanding under our loans from Bank Hapoalim, we may not distribute any dividends to our shareholders. Currency fluctuations and the rate of inflation may affect our results of operation. A majority of our sales are made or denominated in United States dollars. A major portion of our costs of sale expenditures are in foreign currency or linked to foreign currency, primarily U.S. dollars. However, most of our operating and financial expenses are in NIS. Therefore, currency fluctuations affect our results of operations. 12 We believe that the rate of inflation in Israel has not had a material adverse effect on our business to date. However, an increase in the rate of inflation in Israel could increase our expenses in Israel. Likewise, our operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to guard against currency fluctuations in the future. We have not engaged in currency hedging transactions in the past. It is possible that we may not enter into such transactions or that such measures, even if entered into, will not adequately protect us from material adverse effects due to the impact of inflation in Israel or currency fluctuation. For further discussion of the impact of currency fluctuations and inflation, see –the caption “Impact of Inflation and Currency Fluctuations on Results of Operations, Liabilities and Assets” in Item 5; and Item 11 – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk. There can be no assurance that we will not incur losses from currency fluctuations. If Bank Hapoalim were to demand immediate repayment of the amounts we owe it, we would not have sufficient cash on hand to repay it, which could materially impair our ability to continue operations. We financed the purchase of substantially all of the assets, liabilities and business of Orev in 1999 with a loan from Bank Hapoalim in the principal amount of approximately NIS 54 million. In addition, Bank Hapoalim has been providing us with a credit line. Since 1999, we have been repaying the initial loan and the utilized credit balances. As of July 13, 2006, Crow owes Bank Hapoalim an aggregate amount of approximately NIS 28 million. This amount is composed of loans in NIS (approximately NIS 21.9 million) and loans in foreign currency. The foreign currency loans total, as of July 13, 2006, approximately $1.4 million. These foreign currency loans are payable in fixed payments from 2006 until 2010 and accrue annual interest at variable rates of approximately 1.85% above the London Inter-Bank Offer Rate. Most of the NIS loans (NIS 19.4 million) are payable upon demand and accrue interest at the prime rate as determined by Bank Hapoalim plus 0.5% and a small portion of our NIS loans (NIS 2.5 million) are payable in fixed payments from 2007 until 2010 and accrue annual interest at the rate of 6.5%. Fluctuations in the prime rate and/or LIBOR could result in a material increase in interest expenses incurred in connection with these loans. Our obligations to Bank Hapoalim are secured by a fixed lien on our shares of Orev, floating liens on Crow’s and Orev’s assets and mutual guarantees of Crow and Orev for the obligation of the other toward Bank Hapoalim (without limitation of amount). Pursuant to the terms of these liens and other related documents, we are required by Bank Hapoalim to comply with a number of restrictive covenants so long as any amount is outstanding. We believe that as of the date of this report, there is no breach of covenant in respect of which the bank will initiate an action. Bank Hapoalim may demand immediate repayment upon the occurrence of certain events. If Bank Hapoalim were to demand immediate repayment, we would not have sufficient cash on hand to comply with these demands. If we were unable to repay the loan on demand, Bank Hapoalim would be entitled to sell our assets in order to recover any balance still owed to it by us. See Item 5.B – “Liquidity and Capital Resources”. 13 Our current tax benefits are conditional upon the fulfillment of certain conditions, and non-compliance with such conditions could result in the loss of such benefits and/or a requirement to refund the benefits already received Our current tax benefits under the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959 (the Investment Law), are condition upon the fulfillment of certain conditions and restrictions. In the event that these conditions are violated, in whole or in part, we would be required to refund the amount of benefits already received, with the addition of the Israeli Consumer Price Index (CPI) linkage differences and interest, and may lose future benefits. Under one of these conditions, we were required to request the prior approval of the appropriate authority for the changes in our ownership that occurred during 2003. We have requested, retroactively, the approval of the appropriate authority and as of the date of this report, we have not received such an approval. However, our advisors informed us that the risk of dismissing our request and therefore losing our benefits or of being required to refund benefits as a result of the non-compliance with this condition are extremely low. See Item 10.E – Taxation and Government Programs. In March 29, 2005, a comprehensive amendment to the Investments Law came into effect. The amendment imposes additional eligibility criteria for tax benefits. There can be no assurance that we will attain approval for additional tax benefits under the law as amended, or receive approval of approved enterprises in the future. The Investment Law prescribes an expiry date for the grant of new benefits. The expiry date has been extended several times in the past and the expiry date currently in effect is December 31, 2007. There can be no assurance that new benefits will be granted after that date. As we have already been granted approved enterprise status under this law, the deadline does not have any effect on such status or on the benefits we receive. For additional details, see Item 10.E – “Taxation and Government Programs” below. The termination or reduction of these grants and tax benefits could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The new Israeli Companies Law of 1999 imposes substantial duties on shareholders and may cause uncertainties regarding corporate governance. The new Israeli Companies Law, which became effective on February 1, 2000, has brought about significant changes to Israeli corporate law. The new statute has not been fully interpreted by the courts in Israel, thus causing some uncertainty regarding shareholder duties and liabilities. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of Crow, which could prevent a change of control and, therefore, depress the price of our shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. See Item 10.B – “Memorandum and Articles of Association” and Item 10.E “Israeli Taxation” for additional discussion about some anti-takeover effects of Israeli law. These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of Crow, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. 14 Political, economic and military conditions in Israel may adversely affect our ability to develop, manufacture and market our products. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel and our principal facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, we are directly affected by economic, political and military conditions in Israel. Therefore, restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses and the unstable political and military conditions in Israel could adversely affect our operations. Since October 2000, as a result of on-going violent outbreaks between Israeli and Palestinian forces, there has been increased political and economic instability in Israel. The future of the relations between the Palestinian Authority and Israel is uncertain, and the execution of Israel’s plan of a unilateral disengagement from the Gaza Strip and some parts of the West Bank may serve to further disrupt the balance within the Palestinian Authority and affect the overall stability of the region. The election of a majority of Hamas-supported candidates in the January 2006 elections held in the Palestinian territories is widely considered to be a major obstacle to relations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, as well as to stability in the Middle East as a whole. In Israel, the effect of the elections which were held on March 28, 2006 on the future relations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority cannot be predicted. The political and security situation in Israel may result in claims by certain parties with whom we have business relations that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those arrangements pursuant to force majeure provisions. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Furthermore, the majority of our facilities are located in Israel, which may be adversely affected by political and military conditions. Since we do not have a detailed disaster recovery plan that would allow us to quickly resume business activity, we may experience serious disruptions if acts associated with this conflict result in any serious damage to our facilities or to our suppliers’ facilities. Our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot provide any assurance that security and political conditions will not have such an effect in the future. Continued armed conflict and instability in the region may have an adverse affect on our business conditions, including our ability to develop, manufacture and market products. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors. Our officers and directors reside outside of the United States. Therefore, even if our shareholders were to obtain a judgment against us or our officers and directors in the United States, this judgment could be difficult to enforce, both legally and financially. Our shareholders may not be able to enforce civil actions under United States securities laws if they file a lawsuit in Israel. We have not yet evaluated our internal controls over financial reporting in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are required to comply with the internal control evaluation and certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act by no later than the end of our 2007 fiscal year. We are at the initial stages of commencing the process of determining whether our existing internal controls over financial reporting systems is compliant with Section 404. This process may take up to twelve months to complete. If it is determined, during this process, that we are not in compliance with Section 404, we may be required to implement new internal control procedures and evaluate our financial reporting. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses as well as outside auditor fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. If we are unable to implement these changes effectively and efficiently, it could harm our operations, financial reporting or financial results and could result in our being unable to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our independent auditors. 15 Some of our subsidiaries are not wholly owned by us. Accordingly, disagreements with other shareholders in such subsidiaries, on the management and operation of such subsidiaries, could adversely affect our portion of the revenues derived by such subsidiaries. Some of our subsidiaries are not wholly owned by us and we may not exercise control. For example, in Freelink Ltd., in which we hold 48% of its outstanding share capital and 50% of the voting rights, in 2005, we have managed to resolve various disagreements with our jointly controlling partner, related to the operations and management of Freelink. For further details, please see Item 7.B – Related Party Transactions – “Transactions with our affiliates and associates” below. In Freelink as well as other subsidiaries in which we are not the sole shareholder, we jointly control the management and operations of such subsidiaries and depend on agreement of other shareholders to various management decisions. In the event that we cannot agree with the other shareholders on management decisions and reach a deadlock, the operations of our subsidiaries may temporarily in some cases discontinue which may result in a decrease in the revenues of such subsidiaries, and therefore in our revenues. In addition, in Crow Australia, in which we own 60% of the issued share capital, we have various disagreements with the minority shareholders, including in respect of funds owed by the minority shareholders to Crow Australia, alleged claims of entitlements to commissions by the minority shareholders and other claims that the minority shareholders and us have against each other. In addition, in Crow Australia, we depend on local management of Crow Australia, which is currently managed by our minority shareholders. Therefore, in the event that we may not be able to resolve our disagreements with the minority shareholders, it may have an adverse affect on our control over the daily management of Crow Australia and hence may adversely affect our operating results. For further details, please see Item 7.B – Related Party Transactions — “Transactions with our affiliates and associates” below and Item 4.A – History and Development of the Company under the caption “Recent Developments” below. We have relocated our main offices and other operational facilities to larger premises and constructed new premises for our plastic injection activities resulting in additional expense, which could adversely affect our financial condition in the event that we will not be able to meet our forecasts for growth. We have experienced growth in our operations and as a result, in 2005, we have relocated our principal offices to larger premises and entered into a new lease agreement in respect of such premises. In addition, as a result of our expected growth and operational needs, we have recently constructed new facilities for our plastic injection operations and currently undergoing relocation of our electronics assembly facilities. Such relocation results in a substantial increase in our expenditure on lease, equipment and adjustment of the new facilities to our needs. If we are unable to successfully manage our growth and expenses and increase our revenues, our results of operations may be adversely affected. For further information, please see Item 4.D. – Property, Plant and Equipment below. 16 