RISK FACTORS This report contains forward-looking statements. There are many factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected by the forward-looking statements made in this report. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, the risk factors described below. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this report that may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Our Financial Results May Be Materially Affected By Our Strategy to Grow from a Company Primarily Focused on Tape Library Technologies to One Able to Sell and Support Software, Disk and Advanced Tape-Based Solutions. The market for data storage solutions, including automated tape libraries, disk-based data protection solutions and storage management software, is intensely competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving standards. To succeed in this market, we believe that we must continue our strategy of developing storage solutions and products of increasing technical sophistication, including software and disk-based products, and enhance our capacity to support and market more advanced solutions. As part of this strategy, we dramatically ramped up our research and development during the past several years, although in fiscal 2004, research and development decreased moderately primarily due to the timing of new product introductions and lower incentive compensation expense. In fiscal 2005 we continued to increase sales and marketing expenses as we increased the skill of our internal sales force and reach of our branded sales channels. We experienced an expected reduction in sales of low-margin, entry-level OEM products. We are focusing our efforts on replacing such entry-level sales with sales of higher-margin, enterprise class branded and OEM products. We have seen signs of success of this strategy; however, we cannot predict how long it will take to completely implement our strategy, and we cannot provide assurance that we will ultimately execute our strategy successfully or that our strategy will provide us with a sustainable competitive advantage in the market for data storage solutions. Our Quarterly Revenues and Operating Results May Fluctuate for a Number of Reasons. Our quarterly operating results have varied in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future due to several factors, including: • general economic conditions affecting enterprise spending for information technology; • increased number and diversity of available data back-up and archive storage alternatives resulting in delays to customer decision-making cycles; • size and timing of significant customer orders; • shifts in product or distribution channel mix; • increased competition and pricing pressure, timing of new product announcements and releases by us or our competitors; • new product developments by storage device manufacturers, including cost and performance of ATA disk drive products; • recognition of losses or gains from our strategic and other equity investments; • changes in the rate of growth in the data storage market; • market acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our products; • performance of key suppliers and availability of key components; • timing and levels of our operating expenses; • gain or loss of significant customers; 11 • currency fluctuations and variations in effective tax rates; • changes in accounting rules, such as recording expenses for employee stock option grants and changes in tax accounting principles. The other risk factors identified in this section in more detail, such as seasonality, may also cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. Operating results in any period should not be considered indicative of the results investors can expect for any future period. We cannot assure you that past quarterly results will be indicative of future results or that we will be profitable in any future period. Any unfavorable change in the factors described above or any other factors could adversely affect our operating results for a particular quarter. Our Quarterly Revenue and Operating Results May Be Affected By Seasonal Trends. We may experience seasonal trends in our branded sales and OEM sales. Our seasonal trends can result in lower branded revenue in the first quarter of each fiscal year compared to the fourth quarter of the previous fiscal year due to customer purchasing and budgetary practices and our sales commission and budgetary structure. By contrast, OEM sales can be quite strong during the first quarter of our fiscal year, as several of our OEM partners complete their fiscal year during our first quarter, and then may decline in the second quarter of our fiscal year. These seasonal trends in branded and OEM sales have not been very predictable in recent years. Because We Operate with Little Backlog, Our Operating Results Could Be Adversely Affected If We Do Not Accurately Anticipate Future Sales Levels. Historically, we have operated with little order backlog and, due to the nature of our business, we do not anticipate having significant backlog in the future. Consequently, a large portion of our revenue in each quarter results from orders placed during that quarter. Because of the relatively large dollar size of orders from our OEMs and our concentrated customer base for ADIC-branded products, delay in the placing of a small number of orders by a small number of purchasers could negatively affect our operating results for a particular period. Our operating expense levels are, in the short term, largely fixed and are based, in part, on expectations regarding future revenue. Thus, our operating results could be disproportionately and adversely affected if we do not receive the expected number of orders in a given quarter and our revenue falls below our expectations. Competition in the Open Systems Storage Solutions Market May Lead to Reduced Market Share and Adversely Affect Our Revenues. The market for open systems data storage solutions is intensely competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technology, short product cycles, evolving standards and aggressive pricing. These conditions could render our products less competitive or obsolete and could harm our business, financial condition and ability to market our products as currently contemplated. Because we offer and are developing a broad range of open systems storage solutions, including automated tape libraries, disk-based data protection solutions and software, our competitors differ depending on the product format and performance level (e.g., entry-level, mid-range or enterprise class). Several of our competitors have greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and other resources than we have. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements. Competitors may develop products and technologies that are less expensive or technologically superior to our products. In addition, our competitors may manufacture and market their products more successfully than we do our products. Our Products, Especially Our Smaller Automated Libraries, and Our Services Face Pricing Pressure That Could Result in Declining Prices and Reduced Profits. There is significant price competition in the markets in which we compete, especially in the market for our entry-level automated libraries and for product-related service, and we believe that pricing pressures are likely to continue. Some competitors may reduce prices of entry-level library products in order to preserve or gain market 12 share, and certain competitors who are also manufacturers of tape drives, may leverage their access to and pricing of drives to improve their competitive position. Service contract revenues are also under pressure for competitive reasons, and margins are likely to be compressed. To successfully compete, we must be able to manage our product component and design costs and maintain a high level of efficiency in our service organization. Pricing pressures, and our potential inability to manage related costs, could result in significant erosion in revenues, reduced gross profit margins and loss of market share, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The Storage Device Market is Characterized By Rapid Technological Evolution, and Our Success Depends on Our Ability to Develop Successful New Products. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards and is highly competitive with respect to timely innovation. The data storage market is particularly subject to change with the emergence of new communication protocols and other new storage technologies and solutions, as well as the introduction of products and technologies that provide similar functionality to existing products and technologies but at dramatically reduced price points. The introduction of new products embodying new or alternative technology or the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete or unmarketable. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate changes in technology, to gain access to such technology for incorporation into our products and to develop new and enhanced products on a timely and cost-effective basis. Risks inherent in the development and introduction of new products include: • delay in our development and initial shipments of new products; • the difficulty in forecasting customer demand accurately; • our inability to expand production capacity fast enough to meet customer demand; • the possibility that our key suppliers will be unable to deliver new technologies in production volumes; • the possibility that new products may cannibalize our current products; • competitors’ responses to our introduction of new products; and • the desire by customers to evaluate new products for longer periods of time before making a purchase decision. In addition, we must be able to maintain the compatibility of our products with significant future device technologies, and we must rely on producers of new device technologies to achieve and sustain market acceptance of those technologies. Development schedules for high-technology products are subject to uncertainty, and we may not meet our product development schedules. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop products in a timely manner or if the products or product enhancements that we develop do not achieve market acceptance, our business will be harmed. Our Increased Research and Development Spending May Not Yield Results That Justify the Costs Incurred. In 2005 we substantially increased our research and development spending over 2004. We expect to continue significant investment in research and development for the development of new, more technologically advanced products and enhancements of our current product lines. The market for data storage solutions and products is rapidly evolving, and we cannot be assured that our research and development efforts and investments will succeed in providing us with new or upgraded products that are competitive. If these programs are not successful, our increased investment in research and development will not yield corresponding benefits to us. We Rely on Tape Technology for a Substantial Portion of Our Revenue. We derive a significant majority of our revenue from products that incorporate some form of tape technology, including LTO and DLT/SDLT, and we expect to continue to derive a substantial amount of revenue from these 13 products for the foreseeable future. As a result, our future operating results significantly depend on the continued availability and market acceptance of products employing tape drive technology. Tape products have a competitive advantage over disk-based storage on the basis of price. The price of disk storage continues to decrease rapidly, however, due to increased competition and lower costs resulting from new disk drive technologies such as ATA disk. If products incorporating disk or other technologies gain comparable or superior market acceptance and competitive price advantage, our business, financial condition and operating results would be adversely affected unless we successfully develop and market products incorporating the new technology. We Depend on a Limited Number of Increasingly Global Suppliers for Key Parts, Components and Storage Capacity Technologies; Some of Our Suppliers Are Also Our Competitors. We rely on a limited number of third-party manufactures to supply us with parts and components used in our products, and our supply chain extends around the world. In addition to the usual business risks associated with a concentrated supply chain, we have increased exposure to natural or weather disruptions and political or economic disturbances occurring in countries or regions outside the United States based on our worldwide supply chain. We do not possess proprietary magnetic tape drive, optical disk, high-density disk or other storage capacity technologies incorporated into our products, so we rely on a limited number of third-party suppliers for those devices. In many cases, specific versions of storage capacity devices are available only from a single manufacturer, who sometimes markets its own data storage products to compete with ours. They may be able to leverage their low-cost access to the components to price their products more competitively than we can. At times, manufacturers of storage capacity technologies have been unable to meet demand for their products and have had to allocate quantities of devices among their customers. It is possible that, in the future, a drive or other device technology we incorporate into our products will be subject to allocation or that we will otherwise be unable to obtain it in the quantities we desire, which would adversely affect our ability to manufacture and sell products incorporating that drive or technology. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our significant suppliers. The partial or complete loss of any of our suppliers could result in significant lost revenue, added costs and production delays or may otherwise harm our business, financial condition, operating results and customer relationships. We Depend on Contract Manufacturers For Certain Products and Components. We are increasing our reliance on third party contract manufacturers. We currently utilize contract manufacturers to manufacture our entry-level and mid-range workgroup tape automation library products and some of our management and connectivity products, as well as various components and sub-assemblies of virtually all of our products. From time to time, our contract manufacturers and component suppliers have in the past been, and may in the future be, unable to meet our supply needs, including our needs for timely delivery, high quality and adequate quantity. As a result of our increased reliance on contract manufacturers, we may not be able to be as flexible as we have been in the past in responding to specific quantity, feature and other requests from our OEM partners and other customers. Further, some of our suppliers have experienced financial difficulties. If component shortages occur, or if we experience quality problems with contract manufacturers or component suppliers, shipments of products could be significantly delayed or costs significantly increased, and as a result, our revenues and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we utilize only a single source for many components and sub-assemblies, which magnifies the risk of future shortages. Although our agreements with our contract manufacturers do not typically include minimum volume commitments or exclusivity provisions, as a practical matter it is frequently very disruptive and time consuming to change suppliers, and therefore our business, financial condition, operating results and customer relationships could be materially adversely affected if any of our significant suppliers failed to meet our supply requirements. We recently entered into an agreement with Tandberg Data ASA that requires Tandberg to design, develop and manufacture certain entry-level automated library products that we plan to distribute 14 through our sales channels. Our success with respect to the entry-level automated library market will depend significantly on Tandberg’s ability to design, develop and manufacture quality products that we can offer through our channels at competitive prices. A failure by Tandberg to provide us with such products could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively in this market segment. We Rely Heavily on our Manufacturing Facility in Englewood, Colorado; An Interruption of Business at the Facility Could Have Material Adverse Consequences on our Financial Results. All of our Scalar i2000 and Scalar 10K tape libraries and our Pathlight VX disk-based products are manufactured at our leased facility in Englewood, Colorado. If this facility were to become incapable of manufacturing products for any reason, we may be unable to fulfill orders, and we may lose revenue and customers. We carry business interruption insurance on the facility to cover lost revenue and profits for up to three months of downtime. This insurance, however, would not cover all possible situations affecting operation of the facility nor would it cover all out-of-pocket expenses for repairs necessary to resume operations. In addition, our business interruption insurance would not compensate us for the loss of opportunity and potential adverse impact on relations with our existing customers resulting from our inability to produce products for them in a timely manner. We Rely Heavily on Indirect Sales Channels to Market and Sell Our Branded Products; Therefore, the Loss of or Deterioration in our Relationship with One or More of our Resellers or Distributors Could Negatively Affect Our Operating Results. We sell the majority of our branded products to value-added resellers, or VARs, and to direct marketing resellers such as CDW Corporation, who in turn sell our products to end users, and to distributors such as Ingram Micro, Tech Data and others. We also have a growing relationship with EMC through which EMC and ADIC work together to make available ADIC branded products that complement EMC’s product offerings. The success of these sales channels is hard to predict, particularly over time, and we have no purchase commitments or long-term orders from them that assure us of any baseline sales through these channels. Several of our resellers carry competing product lines that they may promote over our products. A reseller might not continue to purchase our products or market them effectively, and each reseller determines the type and amount of our products that it will purchase from us and the pricing of the products that it sells to end user customers. Certain of our contracts with our distributors contain “most favored nation” pricing provisions mandating that we offer our products to these customers at the lowest price offered to other similarly situated customers. In addition, sales of our enterprise-class libraries, and the revenue associated with the on-site service of those libraries, are somewhat concentrated in specific customers, including government agencies and government-related companies. Our operating results could be adversely affected by any number of factors including: • a change in competitive strategy that adversely affects a reseller’s willingness or ability to distribute our products; • the reduction, delay or cancellation of orders or the return of a significant amount of products; • the loss of one or more of such resellers; or • any financial difficulties of such resellers that result in their inability to pay amounts owed to us. We Expect to Continue to Focus on OEM Sales and Could Be Adversely Affected if Our OEM Sales Efforts Are Not Successful. We rely on OEMs such as Cray, Dell, Fujitsu-Siemens, Hewlett-Packard, IBM and Sun Microsystems to sell our products under the OEM’s brand. For fiscal 2005, OEM sales represented 39% of our revenue. Total sales to Dell and IBM, which include OEM sales as well as sale of ADIC branded product to these customers, were 22% and 16%, respectively, of our sales in fiscal 2005. OEMs typically conduct substantial and lengthy evaluation programs before certifying a new product for inclusion in their product line. We may be required to devote significant amounts of financial and human resources to these evaluation programs with no assurance that our products will ever be selected. In addition, even if selected by the OEM, there generally is no 15 requirement that the OEM will purchase any particular amount of product or that it will refrain from purchasing competing products. We do not have purchase commitments from our OEMs, and a reduction in the level of sales from this channel could significantly impact revenue. Further, OEM sales typically feature lower profit margins than we have obtained in the past through our other distribution channels. If any of the OEMs decide not to continue to purchase our products, our business, financial condition and operating results may be harmed. We May Not Realize Returns on Our Investments in Sales and Marketing. In each of the last three years, we have increased our spending on sales and marketing in both the U.S. and in our European and other international markets as part of our strategy to expand our sales and service channels to support new product offerings and improve market penetration with our more complex enterprise-level hardware products and with our software products. Our focus on increasing sales of these more complex hardware and software products has required us to upgrade our sales force to include team members with more technical expertise as well as more experience selling to this level of customer. Further, the sales of these more complex hardware and software products to large enterprises tend to have a longer sales cycle than sales of our mid-range and entry-level products. If our strategy of investing in this sales channel does not yield results through greater penetration of this large enterprise target market and through increased software sales, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our Operating Results Would Be Adversely Affected by a Significant Amount of Product Returns. Our customers have rights in certain instances to return products to us, and we may otherwise allow product returns if we think that doing so is in the interest of maximizing the effectiveness of our sales channels. We estimate and reserve for potential returns in our reported financial results. Actual returns could exceed the level of our estimates due to new product introductions or other changes affecting the market for our products. If returns are made at levels that exceed our estimates, our financial results could be adversely affected in the periods of these returns. We May Make Acquisitions That Are Not Successful. We have in the past acquired businesses, and we may do so in the future. Acquisitions present a number of risks, including: • our ability to successfully integrate the acquired entity’s operations, technologies and products with our own; • our ability to retain key customers and personnel; • our ability to manage a larger and more diverse business, a portion of which may be in markets where we have no or limited prior experience; • unanticipated costs associated with the integration of the acquired entity into our business; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business during the acquisition and integration process; • potential adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; and • charges and write-offs incurred in connection with acquisitions. Additionally, we expect that the consideration paid for future acquisitions, if any, could be in the form of cash, stock, assumption of indebtedness and/or rights to purchase stock. Dilution to existing shareholders and to earnings per share may result to the extent that shares of stock or other rights to purchase stock are issued in connection with any such future acquisitions. Dilution may occur if the earnings from such acquisitions do not exceed associated interest and other charges. We may also incur charges from the completion of acquisitions, such as the expense of in-process research and development or severance or other charges arising from the integration of the businesses. Any such charges could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, and dilution from such acquisitions could materially and adversely affect the price of our stock. 16 We May Not Be Able to Effectively Manage Any Future Growth and We May Not Fully Realize Expected Benefits of Reorganizations. We have experienced rapid growth in the past and anticipate continued growth in the future. This growth has resulted in, and may possibly create in the future, additional capacity requirements, new and increased responsibilities for management personnel, the need to hire additional personnel, the need to open new offices in other international locations, added pressures on our operating and financial systems and, on occasion, the need to reorganize our operations to realize operating efficiencies and cost savings. Our facilities, personnel and operating and global information systems may not be sufficient to manage and sustain our future growth, and additional growth may detract from our ability to respond to new opportunities and challenges quickly. We may not be able to fully realize the benefits of operating reorganizations. If we are unable to manage growth effectively and realize the benefits of operating reorganizations, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially negatively affected. In addition, to the extent expected revenue growth does not materialize, increases in our operating expenditures that are based on anticipated revenue growth could harm our financial results. Risks Associated with International Operations May Adversely Affect Our Business. We have significant sales to customers outside the United States and believe that international sales will continue to represent a large portion of our revenue. In addition, we have used in the past and expect to continue to use in the future, contractors outside the U.S. for certain product development and manufacturing work. Our international operations, product development, manufacturing and our sales to customers outside the United States subject us to a number of risks, including: • the need to comply with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, as well as U.S. export and import laws; • political and economic instability in certain international markets; • longer payment cycles typically associated with international sales and potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • changes in tariffs and tax laws; • greater difficulty of administering business overseas; • the need to support multiple languages; • difficulty recruiting sales and technical support personnel with the skills to support our products; • unpredictability of foreign regulations; • difficulty of obtaining export licenses; and • potential severance exposure related to employment agreements with our European personnel. Furthermore, although we endeavor to meet standards established by foreign regulatory bodies, we may not be able to comply with changes in foreign standards in the future. Our inability to design products to comply with foreign standards could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We May Be Sued By Our Customers for Product Liability Claims as a Result of Failures in Our Data Storage Products. We face potential liability for performance problems of our products because our end users employ our storage technologies for the storage and backup of important data and to satisfy regulatory requirements. Although we maintain general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our business. 17 We May Face Liability Associated with the Use of Products and Processes on Which Patent Ownership or Other Intellectual Property Rights Are Claimed. Although we are not currently directly involved in any intellectual property litigation or proceedings, we may become involved in intellectual property litigation or proceedings in the future. We are now subject to claims or inquiries regarding our alleged unauthorized use of a third party’s intellectual property and we may become subject to similar claims in the future. Patent holders in particular have become increasingly active, both directly and through licensing agents, in asserting patents against companies like ours that develop and distribute technologically sophisticated products. An adverse outcome in any intellectual property litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to license technology from or to others or require us to cease marketing or using certain products, any of which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and operating results. If we are required to seek licenses under patents or proprietary rights of others, we may not be able to acquire these licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, the cost of responding to an intellectual property infringement claim, in terms of legal fees and expenses and the diversion of management resources, whether or not the claim is valid, could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, certain products or technologies acquired or developed by us may include so-called “open source” software. Open source software is typically licensed for use at no initial charge. Certain open source software licenses, however, require users of the open source software to license to others any software that is based on, incorporates or interacts with, the open source software under the terms of the open source license. Although we endeavor to comply fully with such requirements, third parties could claim that we are required to license larger portions of our software than we believe we are required to license under open source software licenses. If such claims were successful, they could adversely impact our competitive position and financial results by providing our competitors with access to sensitive information that may help them develop competitive products. In addition, our use of open source software may harm our business and subject us to intellectual property claims, litigation or proceedings in the future because: • open source license terms may be ambiguous and may result in us being subject to unanticipated obligations regarding our products, technologies and intellectual property; • open source software generally cannot be protected under trade secret law; and • it may be difficult for us to accurately determine the origin of the open source code and whether the open source software infringes, misappropriates or violates third party intellectual property or other rights. Fluctuating Foreign Currency Valuations May Adversely Impact Our Profitability. Currently, approximately 58% of our total international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, and fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could therefore make our products less price competitive. The remaining portion of our international sales are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the euro and the British pound sterling. A decrease in the value of a relevant foreign currency in relation to the U.S. dollar after establishing prices and before our receipt of payment and conversion of such payment to U.S. dollars would have an adverse effect on our operating results. Furthermore, the expenses of our international subsidiaries are denominated in their local currencies. Because we currently engage in only limited foreign currency hedging transactions, our operating results could be adversely affected by movement in foreign currency exchange rates. A Number of Key Personnel Are Critical to the Success of Our Business. Our future success depends in large part on our ability to retain certain key executives and other personnel, some of whom have been instrumental in establishing and maintaining strategic relationships with key suppliers and customers. We do not have any employment agreements with our U.S. team members, except for change of control agreements with our officers and certain key team members and agreements with a few other personnel related to expatriate assignments. Our future growth and success will depend in 18 large part on our ability to hire, motivate and retain highly qualified management, technical, operations and sales and marketing personnel. We may not be able to retain our existing personnel or attract additional qualified personnel in the future. In addition, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that the competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. We may receive such claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel, and such claims could result in litigation. We also periodically have other employment-related claims asserted against us. Regardless of the merits of any of these claims, we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves against these claims. We have historically granted employee stock options as a way of attracting and retaining key personnel. Beginning in fiscal 2006, we will adopt Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment (Revised 2004)” which requires, among other things, that compensation expense be recorded for new and existing partially-vested grants of stock options. The amount of the expense depends on the fair market value of the option at the time of grant. The adoption of SFAS 123R will reduce operating income or increase operating losses, and to the extent we continue to grant stock options to key personnel, may significantly impact operating income. The requirement to expense stock options could also affect our ability to grant stock options in the future which may, in turn, negatively affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. A Failure to Develop and Maintain Proprietary Technology Will Negatively Affect Our Business. Because our business depends on technology, our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our ability to develop and maintain proprietary aspects of our technology. We hold patents on various elements of our storage solution products in the United States and a few international jurisdictions, and we are pursuing additional patent applications. We cannot be certain, however, that we will receive any future patents or that any patents we do receive will be valid or provide meaningful protection for our product innovations. We also rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws and various contract rights to protect our proprietary rights. Such rights, however, may not preclude competitors from developing products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products. In addition, many aspects of our products are not subject to intellectual property protection and can therefore be reproduced by our competitors. Undetected Software or Hardware Errors Could Increase Our Costs and Reduce Our Revenue. Many of our products are technologically complex and incorporate rapidly developing technologies, and we may not be able to adequately control and eliminate design and manufacturing flaws. Our products operate near the limits of electronic and physical performance and are designed and manufactured with relatively small tolerances. If flaws in design, production, assembly or testing were to occur in our products or those of our vendors, we could experience a rate of failure in our products that would result in substantial repair or replacement costs and potential damage to our reputation. Continued improvement in manufacturing capabilities and control of material and manufacturing quality and costs are critical factors in our future growth. We frequently revise and update manufacturing and test processes to address engineering and component changes to our products and evaluate the reallocation of manufacturing resources among our facilities. We can make no assurance that our efforts to monitor, develop and implement appropriate test and manufacturing processes for our products will be sufficient to permit us to avoid a rate of failure in our products that results in substantial shipment delays, significant repair or replacement costs and damage to our reputation. Because Our Products are Utilized in Complex Network Environments, it May be Difficult to Identify and Resolve Problems. Our products are often combined with products from other vendors and are frequently installed in complex network environments. As a result, when problems occur, it is difficult to identify the source of the problem. Problems caused by other network components may appear to be a malfunction of one of our products. These problems may cause us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems. 19 We Face Substantial Warranty Exposure. We generally provide product warranties for varying lengths of time. In the past, we have incurred higher warranty expenses relating to new products than we typically incur with established products. In anticipation of such expenses, we establish allowances for the estimated liability associated with product warranties. However, these warranty allowances may be inadequate, and we may incur substantial warranty expenses in the future with respect to new or established products. We Face Exposure Under Service Level Agreements. We are entering into an increasing number of service contracts with our customers that define specific periods of time during which we must respond to a service call, which sometimes are as short as two or four hours. We may incur more costs than anticipated as a result of these service level commitments. Further, any failure to meet our service level commitments may negatively affect our relationships with key customers and could result in liabilities that materially adversely affect our operating results. Investments in Equity Securities May be Subject to Write-Downs in the Future or to Market Risk. We hold equity interests in private companies and limited partnership interests in private technology venture limited partnerships. Our equity interests in private companies are accounted for on a cost basis and are adjusted for other than temporary impairments. These investments are speculative in nature and can become valueless if the companies we invest in are not able to profitably achieve their business plans or if they are not able to obtain adequate funding to do so. We have in the past and may in the future incur impairment losses on our current investments or investments that we may make in the future, which would have an adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. For our interests in private technology venture limited partnerships, we record equity investment gains or losses equal to our pro rata share of the limited partnership’s income or loss. To date, we have recorded approximately $1.6 million in net losses on these partnership interests, and we may record further losses in the future on these interests or others that we obtain, which would have an adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. Additionally, these losses are primarily based on the general partner’s estimates of the fair value of non-marketable securities held by the partnership and are subject to the inherent uncertainty associated with the valuation of securities for which there is no public market. In addition, we may make investments from time to time in public companies. We did so in 2005 when we made an investment of 1.3 million shares of Overland Storage, Inc. Valuations of investments in publicly traded companies are subject to fluctuation based on the market prices. Declines in valuations of our investments in public companies could negatively affect our profitability and financial condition. We Have Antitakeover Provisions in Place That Make It More Difficult for a Third Party to Acquire Us. We have provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and are subject to certain provisions of Washington law, each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of ADIC that is deemed to be undesirable by our board of directors. These include provisions: • authorizing our board of directors, without any action by the shareholders, to issue up to 4 million shares of preferred stock with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights and preferences superior to those of our common stock; • establishing that directors are elected for three-year terms; and • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers. We have also adopted a shareholder rights plan involving the issuance of preferred stock purchase rights designed to protect our shareholders from abusive takeover tactics by causing substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board and are subject to certain provisions in the Washington business combination statute, which prevents some shareholders from engaging in certain business combinations with us without approval 20 of our board of directors, and a Washington law provision that permits shareholders to act by written consent only if such consent is unanimous. These provisions, alone or together, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over its market price and may adversely affect the market price and the voting and other rights of the holders of common stock. Our Stock Price May Be Extremely Volatile. The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past, and it is likely to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Our stock price can fluctuate for a number of reasons, including: • quarterly variations in operating results, especially if they differ from our previously announced forecasts or forecasts made by analysts; • our announcements of anticipated future revenues or operating results; • announcements about us or our competitors; • the introduction of new technology or products by us or our competitors; • comments regarding us and the data storage market made by industry analysts or on Internet bulletin boards; and • changes in earnings estimates by analysts or changes in accounting policies. We May be Materially Affected by the WEEE and RoHS Directives. The European Union has finalized the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) directive, which regulates the collection, recovery and recycling of waste from electrical and electronic products, and the Restrictions on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS) directive, which bans the use of certain hazardous materials including lead, mercury, cadmium, chromium and halogenated flame-retardants. In order to comply with the WEEE directive, we will be responsible for financing operations for the collection, treatment, disposal and recycling of past and future covered products. In order to comply with the RoHS directive, we may need to substantially alter product designs and/or find alternate suppliers for critical components used in those products. Because the specific legal requirements have not been finalized in most EU countries and because we have yet to fully assess the ramifications to our products, we are presently unable to reasonably estimate the amount of any costs that we may incur in order to comply with WEEE and RoHS. We cannot provide any assurance that compliance with WEEE and RoHS will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We May Be Materially Affected By Global Economic and Political Conditions. In recent periods, adverse economic conditions in the United States and throughout the world economy adversely affected our sales levels. Through 2004 and into 2005, we experienced lower than anticipated sales volumes, which we attribute in part to general economic uncertainties and resource constraints of our customers due to the implementation of many new regulatory requirements, including the internal financial controls requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If general economic conditions fail to improve or continue to worsen, we may experience a material adverse impact on our revenues, operating results and financial condition. A prolonged continuation or worsening of adverse economic conditions may require us to re-evaluate our strategy of investing in research and development and sales and marketing, or to take other actions to reduce the cost of sales and operating expenses in future periods. Any such future actions could result in special charges or adversely affect our long-term competitive position. Further, we may be unable to reduce the cost of sales and operating expenses at a rate and level consistent with such future adverse sales environment, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Unstable global political conditions may also materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks or acts of war could disrupt our operations significantly as well as the operations of our customers, suppliers and sales channels. 21 We May Identify Material Weaknesses in our Internal Controls in the Future and Continue to Incur Substantial Expenditures in Connection with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Beginning fiscal 2005, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted thereunder by the Securities and Exchange Commission, we are required to include in our annual report a report of management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting. The independent registered public accounting firm auditing our financial statements is also required to attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In January 2005, our independent registered public accounting firm reported to our Audit Committee a matter involving internal controls which our independent registered public accounting firm considered to be a material weakness in our financial reporting process, as defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board in Auditing Standard No. 2. We addressed this weakness and our evaluation of internal controls did not identify any material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting at October 31, 2005. Although no material weaknesses were reported at October 31, 2005, we are required to continually evaluate our internal controls and, in the future, we may identify material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls, our business and results of operations could be harmed and we might not be able to provide reasonable assurance as to our financial results or meet our reporting obligations. In addition, we expended significant resources in fiscal 2005 in order to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in particular, and Sarbanes-Oxley in general, and we will likely continue to expend substantial amounts in the future. These expenditures may make it difficult for us to control or reduce the growth of our operating expenses, which could adversely affect our financial results. 