Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed in Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, the following factors may affect our future results. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our underlying common stock could decline and investors may lose part or all of their investment. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. As a result, we cannot predict every risk factor, nor can we assess the impact of all of the risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our financial health. We have a substantial amount of debt. As of May 31, 2006, our total consolidated debt was approximately $735.2 million. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health by, among other things: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions of clubs and other general corporate requirements; • continuing to require us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flows from operations to make interest payments on our debt, which reduces funds available for operations and future business opportunities; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • making us more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which could potentially decrease our ability to compete in our industry. Our inability to comply with covenants under the Credit Agreement and indentures governing our Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes could adversely impact our ability to operate our business. The Credit Agreement and indentures governing our Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes contain covenants that include, among others, financial reporting covenants; restrictions on incurring additional indebtedness; incurring liens; certain types of payments (including capital stock dividends and redemptions, and payments on existing indebtedness); capital expenditures; investments; and sale and leaseback transactions. The Company has failed to comply with its financial reporting covenants during 2004, 2005 and 2006, and has obtained waivers with respect to its non-compliance. Any breach of any of these covenants will result in a default and/or cross-default under the Credit Agreement or the indentures. In addition, the Credit Agreement requires the Company to meet certain interest coverage and leverage tests, as such tests are defined in the Credit Agreement. If we are unable to comply with these covenants there would be a default under the Credit Agreement which could result in a cross-default under the indentures governing the Senior Notes and the Senior Subordinated Notes. Upon a default under the Credit Agreement, we will not have access to the revolving credit facility and likely will not have adequate liquidity to meet our operating needs. Changes in economic or business conditions, results of operations or other factors could also cause the Company to default under its debt instruments. A default, if not waived by Bally’s lenders, could result in acceleration of the Company’s debt. We are uncertain of our ability to obtain additional financing for our future capital needs. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we may not be able to continue to operate our business. The Company requires substantial cash flows to fund its capital spending and working capital requirements. We maintain a substantial amount of debt, the terms of which require significant interest payments each year. We currently anticipate our cash flow and availability under our $100 million revolving credit facility pursuant to our Credit Agreement will be sufficient to meet our expected needs for working capital and other cash requirements through the first quarter of 2007. However, changes in terms or other requirements by vendors could negatively 17 Table of Contents impact cash flows and liquidity. We do not believe our cash flow and availability under the revolving credit facility will be sufficient to repay our $300 million Senior Subordinated Notes which are due in October 2007. In addition, the Credit Agreement will terminate in the event that the Senior Subordinated Notes have not been refinanced on or before April 15, 2007. As a result, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings. We cannot assure you that any such funds will be available to us on favorable terms or at all. If such funds are unavailable to us, we may default on our Senior Subordinated Notes, our Senior Notes and our Credit Agreement, and may not be able to continue to operate our business. In addition, upon a default under our Credit Agreement, whether directly or as a result of a cross-default to other indebtedness, we will not be able to draw on the revolving credit facility and may not be able to continue to operate our business. There can be no assurance that any strategic transaction will occur, or if one is undertaken, of its potential terms or timing. As we previously announced, we are currently exploring strategic alternatives to enhance stockholder value, and the Strategic Alternatives Committee of our Board of Directors has engaged J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and The Blackstone Group L.P. to assist the Company in this process. The Strategic Alternatives Committee authorized J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and The Blackstone Group L.P. to engage in discussions with interested parties in connection with the strategic alternative process. There can be no assurance that any transaction will occur, or if one is undertaken, of its potential terms or timing. We are subject to risks associated with implementation of the new business initiatives. We have devoted significant resources to the development and testing of new business initiatives, including our BYOM program and our new club staffing programs. However, there can be no assurance the results of our national roll-out of these programs will be successful. The introduction of BYOM could result in pricing contraction or variances in the average payment collected. Furthermore, the national roll-out required significant resources in the planning and implementation, as well as additional training for our club personnel, and may require additional such training in the future which may result in additional costs and distract personnel from other responsibilities. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that these programs will be effective in attracting and/or retaining members. Furthermore, some initiatives are long-term strategic initiatives and, accordingly, may not result in short-term operating efficiencies and, if unsuccessful, may result in additional operating costs. We may not be able to attract or retain a sufficient number of members to maintain or expand the business. The profitability of the Company’s fitness centers is dependent, in part, on the Company’s ability to originate and retain members. There are numerous factors that could affect the Company’s membership origination and retention at its fitness centers or that could lead to a decline in member origination and retention rates, including the ability of the Company to deliver quality service at a competitive cost, the presence of direct and indirect competition in the areas where the Company’s fitness centers are located, delayed reinvestment into aging clubs, and the public’s level of interest in fitness and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, there can be no assurance that the Company’s membership levels will be adequate to maintain the business or permit the expansion of its operations. See Item 1 — Business — Business Strategy. The positive results achieved from introducing the sale of products and services during recent years may not continue in the future. We have introduced a number of business initiatives to capitalize on our brand identity, distribution infrastructure, significant member base and frequency of visitation. These initiatives primarily focus on selling ancillary products and services to our members within our fitness centers and include: providing personal training services; selling Bally-branded nutritional products; opening retail stores selling nutritional products, workout apparel and related accessories; and martial arts programs. We have generated significant revenue from products and services since implementing these initiatives. However, they may not continue to be successful in the future. The sale and marketing of nutritional products, workout apparel and related accessories and the provision of 18 Table of Contents rehabilitative and physical therapy services involve significant risk of competition. See Item 1 — Business — Competition. We may not be able to continue to compete effectively in each of our markets in the future. The fitness center industry is highly competitive. Within each market in which we operate, we compete with other commercial fitness centers, physical fitness and recreational facilities established by local governments, hospitals and businesses for their employees, the YMCA and similar organizations and, to a certain extent, with racquet, tennis and other athletic clubs, country clubs, weight reducing salons, vitamin stores and the home-use fitness equipment industry. We also compete, to some extent, with entertainment and retail businesses for the discretionary income of our target markets. In addition, we face greater regional competition with increasingly large and well-capitalized fitness companies such as 24 Hour Fitness Worldwide, Inc., L.A. Fitness, Inc., Town Sports International Holdings, Inc., Life Time Fitness, Inc. and Curves International, Inc. We may not be able to continue to compete effectively in each of our markets in the future. Additionally, competitive conditions may limit our ability to maintain or increase pricing of membership fees and may impact our ability to attract new members, retain existing members and retain or attract qualified personnel. Our trademarks and trade names may be misappropriated or subject to claims of infringement. We attempt to protect our trademarks and trade names through a combination of trademark and copyright laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure agreements. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Non-compliance with Payment Card Industry Data Standards could adversely affect our business. Similar to others in the retail industry, we are currently not fully compliant with new Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards. We are working cooperatively with our third party assessor, our payment processor and our primary credit card companies to become compliant. If we are not able to achieve and maintain compliance, we may be liable for substantial fines and penalties and possibly lose our ability to accept credit cards for the payment of memberships and/or the sale of products and services. The inability to accept credit cards would have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Weaknesses in the Company’s internal controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). In making its assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, management used the criteria described in “Internal Control — Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in a more than remote likelihood a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. These material weaknesses contributed to the restatements of our consolidated financial statements for 2002 and 2003, the adjustment to accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2002, set forth herein (See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Adjustment to Accumulated Deficit as of December 31, 2002), and the restatements of the 2005 condensed quarterly financial statements. We cannot assure you further restatements or adjustments may not be required in the future. Management determined that 11 material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting existed as of December 31, 2005. See Item 9A — Controls and Procedures for a description of these material weaknesses. Due to the existence of these material weaknesses, management concluded we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on the criteria in the “Internal Control — Integrated Framework.” Further, the material weaknesses identified resulted in an adverse opinion by our 19 Table of Contents independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We do not believe that all material weaknesses will be remediated by December 31, 2006. We are developing a remediation plan and intend to implement remediation measures during 2006 and 2007, each designed to remediate the material weaknesses in our internal controls by December 31, 2007 (See Item 9A — Controls and Procedures). We cannot assure you as to when the remediation plan will be fully implemented, nor can we assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified by our management or independent accountants in the future. We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial expenses relating to the remediation of material weaknesses in our internal controls identified in our management assessment. These expenses may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, even after the remedial measures discussed in Item 9A — Controls and Procedures are fully implemented, our internal controls may not prevent all potential error and fraud, because any control system, no matter how well designed, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance that the objectives of the control system will be achieved. Our ability to report our financial results on a timely basis in the future could be adversely affected by our weaknesses in internal controls. If we are unable to substantially improve our internal controls, including the capability and efficiencies of our computer and information technology systems, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis will continue to be adversely affected. If we are unable to timely file reports with the SEC, we may be required to seek further waivers of reporting covenants from our bondholders and lenders and pay additional consent fees to our bondholders and lenders. We cannot assure you that such waivers could be obtained. If we are unable to obtain a waiver, defaults would occur under our Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes, with a potential cross-default under the Credit Agreement if the holders of the Senior Notes or Senior Subordinated Notes deliver a notice of default. Upon any such event, we may not be able to continue to operate our business. In addition, if we are unable to timely file, the Company could be considered for delisting by the New York Stock Exchange and our stockholders could find it difficult to buy or sell our common shares and the trading prices for our common shares could be adversely effected. Our ability to access the capital markets is also subject to our timely filing of periodic reports with the SEC, and our recent failure to file certain reports on a timely basis limits our ability to access the capital markets using a short-form registration. Any adverse outcome of investigations currently being conducted by the SEC or the U.S. Attorney’s Office could have a material adverse impact on us, on the trading prices of our securities and on our ability to access the capital markets. We are cooperating with investigations currently being conducted by the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s Office. We cannot currently predict the outcome of either of these investigations, which could be material. Nor can we predict whether any additional investigation(s) will be commenced or, if so, the impact or outcome of any such additional investigation(s). Until these existing investigations and any additional investigations that may arise in connection with the historical conduct of the business are resolved, the trading prices of our securities may be adversely affected and it may be more difficult for us to raise additional capital or incur indebtedness or other obligations. If an unfavorable result occurs in any such investigation, we could be required to pay civil and/or criminal fines or penalties, or be subjected to other types of sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Fines, penalties or settlements could also result in a default under our Credit Agreement. The trading prices for our securities or our ability to access the capital markets and our business and financial condition could be further materially adversely affected. The impact of ongoing purported securities class action, derivative and insurance-related litigation may be material. We are also subject to the risk of additional litigation and regulatory action in connection with the restatement of our consolidated financial statements. The potential liability from any such litigation or regulatory action could adversely affect our business. In 2004, we restated our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 and 2002. In connection with these restatements, we and certain of our former and current officers and directors have 20 Table of Contents been named as defendants in a number of lawsuits, including purported class action and stockholder derivative suits and suits by individuals from whom we purchased health club businesses with shares of our common stock. We cannot currently predict the impact or outcome of these litigations, which could be material. The continuation and outcome of these lawsuits and related ongoing investigations, as well as the initiation of similar suits and investigations, may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we maintain primary and excess directors and officers liability insurance policies. In November 2005 and April 2006, we and certain of our former and current officers and directors were named as defendants in actions by several insurers to rescind and/or to obtain a declaration that no coverage is afforded by certain of our excess directors and officers liability insurance policies for the years in which the class action and derivative claims were made. We believe that these actions are without merit and intend to vigorously defend them. However, we cannot currently predict the impact or outcome of these litigations, nor can we ensure that we will be able to maintain both our primary and excess directors and officers liability insurance policies, the loss of either of which could be material. The continuation and outcome of these lawsuits, as well as the initiation of similar suits, may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. As a result of the restatements of our consolidated financial statements described herein, we could become subject to additional purported class action, derivative or other securities litigation. As of the date hereof, we are not aware of any additional litigation or investigation having been commenced against us related to these matters, but we cannot predict whether any such litigation or regulatory investigation will be commenced or, if it is, the outcome of any such litigation or investigation. The initiation of any additional securities litigation or investigations, together with the lawsuits and investigations described above, may also harm our business and financial condition. Until the existing litigation and regulatory investigations, any additional litigation or regulatory investigation, and any claims or issues that may arise in connection with the historical conduct of the business are resolved, it may be more difficult for us to raise additional capital or incur indebtedness or other obligations. If an unfavorable result occurred in any such action, our business and financial condition could be further adversely affected. For a further description of the nature and status of these legal proceedings, see Item 3 — Legal Proceedings. We are subject to various other litigation risks, including class actions, that could have a material adverse impact on us. We are, and have been in the past, named as defendants in a number of purported class action lawsuits based on alleged violations of state and local consumer protection laws and regulations governing the sale, financing and collection of membership fees. To date, we have successfully defended or settled such lawsuits without a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully defend or settle all pending or future purported class action claims, and our failure to do so may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. From time to time the Company is party to various lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business, including claims that may be asserted against us by members, their guests or our employees. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our general liability insurance on acceptable terms in the future or that such insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential claims. We are subject to extensive government regulation. Changes in these regulations could have a negative effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our operations and business practices are subject to federal, state and local government regulations in the various jurisdictions where our fitness centers are located and where our nutritional products are sold, including: • general rules and regulations of the FTC, state and local consumer protection agencies and state statutes that prescribe provisions of membership contracts and that govern the advertising, sale, financing and collection of membership fees and dues; • state and local health regulations; and • federal regulation of health and nutritional supplements. 21 Table of Contents We are also a party to several state and federal consent orders. These consent orders essentially require continued compliance with applicable laws and require us to refrain from activities not in compliance with such applicable laws. From time to time, we make minor adjustments to our operating procedures to remain in compliance with applicable laws and we believe our operations are in material compliance with all applicable statutes, rules and regulations. The implementation of BYOM and the new club staffing program has required certain market specific adjustments and may require future adjustments to remain in compliance with federal, state and local regulations. Our failure to comply with these statutes, rules and regulations may result in fines or penalties. Penalties may include regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing aspects of our operations. It is difficult to predict the future development of such laws or regulations, and although we are not aware of any material proposed changes, any changes in such laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we do not retain our key personnel or fail to attract and retain other highly skilled employees our business may suffer. The success of our business is heavily dependent on the capabilities of our management team. If critical persons were to leave, it might be difficult to replace them and our business could be adversely affected. In addition, the Company has little equity compensation with which to induce or retain management. The Company’s 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan expired on January 3, 2006, and as of the date of this filing, only 42,500 shares of common stock are available to be issued to new employees under the Company’s Inducement Award Equity Incentive Plan. Further, stockholders did not approve the proposed 2006 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan at the Company’s Annual Meeting of Stockholders held in January 2006. We cannot assure you that we can attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel to meet our business needs. The continuing time, effort and expense relating to internal and external investigations and the development and implementation of improved internal controls and procedures may have an adverse effect on our business. In addition to the challenges of the various government investigations and extensive litigation we face, our current management team is expected to spend considerable time and effort dealing with the follow up to internal and external investigations involving our historical accounting and internal controls, and in further developing and implementing accounting policies and procedures, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. The significant time and effort required for these matters may distract the management team and have an adverse effect on our business. 22 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 