Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Statements and Associated Risks We make written and oral statements from time to time regarding our business and prospects, such as projections of future performance, statements of management’s plans and objectives, forecasts of market trends, and other matters that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21F of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Statements containing the words or phrases “will likely result,” “are expected to,” “will continue,” “is anticipated,” “estimates,” “projects,” “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “target,” “goal,” “plans,” “objective,” “should” or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which may appear in documents, reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, written or oral presentations made by officers or other representatives made by us to analysts, stockholders, investors, news organizations and others, and discussions with management and other representatives of us. For such statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our future results, including results related to forward-looking statements, involve a number of risks and uncertainties. No assurance can be given that the results reflected in any forward-looking statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of us speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made. Our forward-looking statements are based on assumptions that are sometimes based upon estimates, data, communications and other information from suppliers, government agencies and other sources that may be subject to revision. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update or keep current either (i) any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of such statement, or (ii) the important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or which are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement which may be made by or on behalf of us. In addition to other matters identified or described by us from time to time in filings with the SEC, there are several important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or results that are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement that may be made by or on behalf of us. Some of these important factors, but not necessarily all important factors, include the following: As of March 1, 2006, Applied Digital Solutions, Inc. owns 55.4% of our common stock. As of March 1, 2006, Applied Digital Solutions, Inc. (NASDAQ CM: ADSX) is the beneficial owner of 55.4% of our common stock, and it controls us with respect to all matters upon which our stockholders may vote, including the selection of the Board of Directors, mergers, acquisitions and other significant corporate transactions. There can be no assurance as to how Applied Digital Solutions may support actions that are contrary to or conflict with the interests of the other stockholders. As the Company is controlled by Applied Digital Solutions, Inc., the Company is not required to comply with certain rules and requirements of the American Stock Exchange (AMEX Rules). Specifically, the Company is not required to have a majority of independent directors or a Nominating Committee. Instead, its full Board of Directors considers and nominates candidates proposed for election. Therefore, certain independence protections provided by the AMEX Rules are not currently in place. 7 New accounting pronouncements regarding expensing of share based compensation may impact our future results of operations In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment.” The provisions of SFAS 123R became effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2006. SFAS 123R requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values. The pro forma disclosures previously permitted under SFAS 123 no longer will be an alternative to financial statement recognition. All of the Company’s out-of-the-money, unvested stock options issued to current employees, officers and directors prior to November 15, 2005 vested on December 30, 2005, and, therefore, we do not expect that the initial adoption of SFAS 123R will have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations and earnings (loss) per share. However, going forward, as we grant more options or other share based compensation to our employees, we expect that the impact may be material. We may continue to incur net losses. We incurred a net loss of $9.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. We also incurred a net loss of $5.0 million and $9.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. No assurance can be given as to whether we will be profitable in future periods. Profitability depends on many factors, including the success of marketing programs, the maintenance and reduction of expenses, and the ability to coordinate successfully the operations of our business units. If we fail to achieve and maintain sufficient profitability within the time frame expected by investors, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Infringement by third parties on our intellectual property or development of substantially equivalent proprietary technology by our competitors could negatively affect our business. Our success depends significantly on our ability to maintain patent and trade secret protection, to obtain future patents and licenses, and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance that the measures we have taken to protect our intellectual property will prevent its misappropriation or circumvention of our intellectual property. In addition, there can be no assurance that any patent application, when filed, will result in an issued patent, or that our existing patents, or any patents that may be issued in the future, will provide us with significant protection against competitors. Moreover, there can be no assurance that any patents issued to or licensed by us will not be infringed upon or circumvented by others. Litigation to establish the validity of patents, to assert infringement claims against others, and to defend against patent infringement claims can be expensive and time-consuming, even if the outcome, which is often uncertain, is in our favor. We also rely to a lesser extent on unpatented proprietary technology, and no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, techniques or processes or that we can meaningfully protect our rights to such unpatented proprietary technology. Infringement on our intellectual property or the development of substantially equivalent technology by our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business. Domestic and foreign government regulation and other factors could impair our ability to develop and sell our products in certain markets. The electronic animal identification market can be negatively affected by such factors as food safety concerns, price, consumer perceptions regarding cost and efficacy, international technology standards, government regulation, and slaughterhouse removal of microchips. The USDA is involved in the development and implementation of a planned National Animal Identification System (NAIS) as well as in the regulation of certain aspects of the companion animal business. While the regulations governing these activities are not yet finalized, such regulations could have a material impact on our operations in the livestock and companion animal markets. We are also subject to federal, state and local regulation in the United States, including regulation by the FDA, FCC and the USDA, and similar regulatory bodies in other countries. We cannot predict the extent to which we may be affected by further legislative and regulatory developments concerning our products and markets. We are required to obtain regulatory approval before marketing most of our products. The regulatory process can be very time-consuming and costly, and there is no assurance that we will receive the regulatory approvals necessary to sell our products under development. Regulatory authorities also have the authority to revoke approval of previously approved products for cause, to request recalls of products and to close manufacturing plants in response to violations. Any such regulatory action, including the failure to obtain such approval, could prevent us from selling, or materially impair our ability to sell, our products in certain markets and could negatively affect our business. We rely on sales to government contractors of our animal identification and search and rescue beacon products, and any decline or delay in the demand by these customers for our products could negatively affect our business. Certain customers for electronic identification devices for fish are government contractors that rely on funding from the United States government. Since these contractors rely heavily on government funds, any decline in the availability of such funds could result in a decreased demand by these contractors for our products. Any decrease in demand or delay by such customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and result in a decline in the market value of our common stock. 8 We depend on a single production arrangement for our patented syringe-injectable microchips, and the loss of or any significant reduction in the production could have an adverse effect on our business. We rely on a sole production arrangement with Raytheon Microelectronics Espana, SA (Raytheon) for the manufacture of our patented syringe-injectable microchips that are used in all of our implantable electronic identification products. Raytheon utilizes our proprietary technology and our equipment in the production of our syringe-injectable microchips. The termination, or any significant reduction, by Raytheon of the assembly of our microchips or a material increase in the price charged for the assembly of our microchips could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Raytheon may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of the microchips to meet any significant increased demand for our products or to meet any such demand on a timely basis. Any inability or unwillingness of Raytheon to meet our demand for microchips would require us to utilize an alternative production arrangement and potentially remove our automated assembly production machinery from the Raytheon facility, which would be costly and could delay production. Moreover, if Raytheon terminated the production arrangement, we may be required to relocate our production equipment from Raytheon’s facility. If we were required to move the production equipment, we cannot ensure that the assembly of our microchips from another source would be on comparable or acceptable terms. The failure to make such an alternative production arrangement could have an adverse effect on our business. Technological change could cause our products and technology to become obsolete or require us to redesign our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Technological changes within the industries that we conduct business may require us to expend substantial resources in an effort to develop new products and technology. We may not be able to anticipate or respond to technological changes in a timely manner, and our response may not result in successful product development and timely product introductions. If we are unable to anticipate or respond to technological changes, our business could be adversely affected. Loss of our principal customers could negatively affect our net revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we had one customer, Schering Plough Animal Health, Inc., which accounted for 10% of our consolidated revenues. The GPS and Radio Communications segment is heavily dependent on contracts with domestic government agencies and foreign governments, including the United Kingdom, primarily relating to military applications. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders from this or our other major customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We compete with other companies in the visual and electronic identification and pilot locator beacon markets, and the products sold by our competitors could become more popular than our products or render our products obsolete. The markets for visual and electronic identification and pilot locator beacon products are highly competitive. We believe that our principal competitors in the visual identification market for livestock are AllFlex USA and Y-Tex Corporation, that our principal competitors in the electronic identification market are AllFlex USA, Datamars SA and Avid Identification Systems, Inc. and that our principal competitors in the pilot locator beacon market are Boeing North American Inc., General Dynamics Decision Systems, Tadiran Spectralink Ltd., Becker Avionic Systems and ACR Electronics, Inc. In addition, other companies could enter this line of business in the future. Certain of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than us. We may not be able to compete successfully with these competitors, and those competitors may develop or market technologies and products that are more widely accepted than ours or that would render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. Our earnings will decline if we write-off goodwill and other intangible assets. As of December 31, 2005, we had recorded goodwill of $48.5 million. On January 1, 2002, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” SFAS No. 142 requires that goodwill and certain intangibles no longer be amortized but instead be tested for impairment at least annually by applying a fair value based test. There was no impairment of goodwill upon the adoption of SFAS 142 on January 1, 2002. Based upon the Company’s annual review for impairment, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $7.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2005. The impairment charge related to $3.8 million of goodwill and $3.3 million of intangible assets at our OuterLink Corporation reporting unit. The Company recorded impairment charges of $0, $3.0 million and $57.4 million in the fourth quarters of 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively (of which $3.0 million and $25.9 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively, related to our Medical Systems segment and are included in discontinued operations). 9 We assess the fair value of our goodwill annually or earlier if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of our goodwill below its carrying value. These events or circumstances would include a significant change in business climate, including a significant, sustained decline in an entity’s market value, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of the business, or other factors. If we determine that significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to write off the impaired portion of goodwill. Impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our reported net income. The exercise of options and warrants outstanding and available for issuance may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of March 1, 2006, we had 9,955,000 options and 530,000 warrants outstanding to purchase from us a total of 10,485,000 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $0.05 to $10.50 per share. As of March 1, 2006, the weighted average exercise price of the options and warrants outstanding was $3.94. The exercise of outstanding options and warrants and the sale in the public market of the shares purchased upon such exercise may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial results. In 2005, we generated approximately 40% of our sales and incurred a portion of our expenses in currencies other than U.S. dollars. To the extent that we are unable to match revenues received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations in any such currency could have an adverse effect on our financial results. We depend on a small team of senior management, and we may have difficulty attracting and retaining additional personnel. Our future success will depend in large part upon the continued services and performance of senior management and other key personnel. If we lose the services of certain members of our senior management team, our overall operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our future success will depend on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing, purchasing and customer service personnel when they are needed. Competition for these individuals is intense. We cannot ensure that we will be able to successfully attract, integrate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel when the need arises. Any failure to attract and retain the necessary technical, managerial, marketing, purchasing and customer service personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1(B). Unresolved Staff Comments None 