Item 1A. Risk Factors The global economy in general and the United States economy specifically are experiencing a historic period of uncertainty which could impact our financial results and stock price, among other things. The United States economy is experiencing high levels of unemployment as compared to the recent past and large federal budget deficits. These issues could have a severe adverse effect on our business and results of operation. We have experienced a history of losses and have a significant accumulated deficit. Since inception, we have incurred significant net operating losses and have not achieved consistent annual profitability. As of December 25, 2010 we had an accumulated deficit of $127.6 million. We believe that our products are targeted towards markets that are still developing and our competitive strength is creating new technologies. Accordingly we believe it is important to continue to invest in research and development even during periods when we are not profitable. Our philosophy and strategies may result in our incurring losses from operations and negative cash flow. Our revenues, profitability and cash flows could be negatively affected if sales of our CyberDisplay products for military applications significantly declined. A significant part of our fiscal year 2010 income from operations and our strategy to maintain profitability in fiscal year 2011 and beyond is to sell our CyberDisplay products for use in U.S. military applications because these products are sold with higher margins than our commercial display or III-V products. The U.S. federal government has incurred and is expected to continue to incur record federal budget deficits. Although we have been awarded programs to supply our display products for use in military applications these programs are subject to at least annual recurring funding by the U.S. government. The level of this funding may be affected by the federal budget deficits. If the U.S. government significantly reduces funding for these programs we will not be profitable. Our revenues, profitability and cash flows could be negatively affected if sales of smart phones and similar devices do not continue to grow. We sell our III-V products, primarily our Heterojunction Bipolar Transistor (HBT) wafers, to manufacturers of chip sets, such as Skyworks Solutions, who in turn sell the chip sets to wireless handset manufactures. The number of our products which ultimately end up in a wireless handset is dependent on the complexity of the wireless handset. For instance a “3G” or “smart phone” typically contains more of our III-V products than a basic wireless handset. An important factor in our strategy to grow our III-V product sales is based on the premise that the sales of smart phones and similar devices will become an increasing percentage of the overall sales of wireless handsets. If the sale of wireless handsets is more skewed to basic units even though the number of wireless handsets may increase or the overall wireless handset market declines at a faster rate than the adoption of smart phones and similar devices, our sales may decline and our ability to be profitable and generate cash flow could be negatively impacted. In addition, we receive information from our customers as to how much of our inventory they possess but we do not receive verifiable information as to how much of our customers’ inventory is in the possession of their customers. Accordingly, because of the unpredictability of what actual handset sales will be in 2011 and our lack of information as to how much inventory is in the supply chain our ability to estimate sales of our III-V products is very limited. The market segment for our head-worn, hands-free cloud computing products may not develop or may take longer to develop than we anticipate which may impact our ability to grow revenues. We have developed a head-worn, hands-free cloud computing product called Golden-i. This product platform is targeted for industrial, military and “prosumer” markets. Golden-i is a combination of our display technologies with wireless and voice activated software technologies, some of which we developed. The Golden-i product is significantly dependent on software which we have little experience in developing or selling. The Golden-i product is dependent on our ability to collaborate with software developers. We anticipate selling Golden-i developer kits in 2011 and launching a product with a manufacturing/distribution partner in 2012. If a market for Golden-i products does not develop or we are unable to create and manufacture the Golden-i product we may be unable to grow CyberDisplay product revenues and our ability to maintain profitability may be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents If we are unable to reduce the cost of our products our financial results could be negatively impacted. The sales prices of our commercial products and, to a lesser extent, our military products, have historically declined each year. Our strategy to maintain our gross margin is to improve manufacturing efficiencies and yields, increase production of larger diameter wafers (8-inch for display products and 6-inch for III-V products) and use our purchasing power to obtain reduced raw material and component pricing from our vendors. In 2009 we obtained an 87% interest in Kopin Taiwan Corporation (KTC) to increase our capacity to produce 6-inch HBT transistor wafers. In order to use KTC’s production capacity KTC’s production processes must be qualified by our customers. If we are unable to execute on our cost reduction strategies, in particular, our transition to larger diameter wafers and raw material purchasing strategy, our products may not be cost competitive with our competitors’ products which, may result in lower sales and reduced cash flow, and we may not be able to achieve profitability. Our purchasing power is predicated on the volumes of raw materials we buy which is directly related to our sales to certain significant customers. Our revenue and cash flows could be negatively affected by the loss of any of the few customers who account for a substantial portion of our revenues. A few customers account for a substantial portion of our revenues. In addition sales of our CyberDisplay products for military applications is a significant factor in our profitability and future growth. The table below indicates, for the past three fiscal years, percentages of our total revenues from certain customers and for our sales for military applications. The symbol “*” indicates that sales to that particular customer for the given year were below 10 percent of our total revenues. Sales as a Percentof Total Revenue Customer 2010 2009 2008 Skyworks Solutions, Inc (A) 25 % 20 % 20 % Advanced Wireless Semiconductor Company 12 8 9 Military Customers (B) 33 45 32 United States Government Funded Research and Development Contracts 3 6 6 Raytheon Company (B) 18 14 * DRS Technologies (B) * 19 19 (A) In addition to its internal capacity Skyworks Solution, Inc. (Skyworks) also uses Advanced Wireless Semiconductor Company (AWSC) to perform processing. We sell our HBT wafers directly to AWSC for use in Skyworks products as well as other customers. If we assume all of the HBT products we sold to AWSC were for Skyworks’ use the combined sales to Skyworks and AWSC would be 37%, 28% and 29% of or our revenues for the years ended 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (B) Sales to Raytheon Company and DRS Technologies are included within the Military Customers category. A significant reduction or delay in orders from any of our significant commercial customers would materially reduce our revenue and cash flow and adversely affect our ability to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. If we experience a significant reduction or delay in orders from any of our significant military customers our revenues and cash flow will be negatively impacted and we will not achieve profitability in 2011, unless the other military customers increased orders to sufficiently offset the decline. The sales to Skyworks Solutions and, to some extent, AWSC have been under a purchase and supply agreement with Skyworks Solutions which expires in July 2012. If we do not renew the agreement on commercially reasonable terms our revenue, cash flow and our ability to achieve or maintain profitability in the future would be adversely impacted. If we fail to keep pace with changing technologies, we may lose customers. Rapidly changing customer requirements, evolving technologies and industry standards characterize the wireless communications, semiconductor materials and display industries. To achieve our goals, we need to enhance our existing products and develop and market new products that keep pace with continuing changes in industry standards, requirements and customer preferences. If we cannot keep pace with these changes, our business could suffer. 16 Table of Contents We may not be able to increase our military production capacity. A critical part of our business strategy is to expand our military display production capacity and to implement a new manufacturing line which can utilize 8-inch wafers for our display production. Wafers with 8-inch diameters allow us to utilize more sophisticated manufacturing equipment and techniques which we believe is necessary to create smaller form factor, lower power, higher resolution displays. If we are unable to execute our military product display production facility plan, including the implementation of an 8-inch production line, or we can only manufacture and ship our CyberDisplay products in limited quantities, our revenues from CyberDisplay products may not grow, which may impact our ability to maintain profitability in the future. Our ability to offer and manufacture higher level CyberDisplay assemblies and modules will impact our ability to increase revenues and achieve or maintain profitability. An important factor in our ability to expand into new military markets will be our ability to design and manufacture higher-level assemblies (HLAs). These HLAs typically consist of one or two CyberDisplay products, a backlight, lens and housing. Some HLAs also include a set of display driver electronics or a display driver chip. They are similar to our commercial binocular display modules, referred to as BDM products, but are much more complex with the additional design to operate in the extreme conditions of combat. Our goal is to deliver an integrated HLA to our customer which eases integration into their products. These products require more complex integration of a greater variety of components than we currently use for our existing display products. They will require us to invest in additional engineering, manufacturing and test capability. Accordingly, if we are unable to develop and market these new display products or if we are unable to manufacture them in a cost-effective manner, our revenues may not grow and we may not be able to maintain profitability. Our ability to manufacture and distribute our CyberDisplay products would be severely limited if the third parties that we rely on to manufacture integrated circuits for our CyberDisplay products fail to provide those services. We depend on a Taiwanese company and a Korean company for the fabrication of integrated circuits for our CyberDisplay products. We have no long-term contracts with either of these two companies. These two companies use different methods to manufacture the integrated circuits and a shortage at one company cannot necessarily be supplied by the other company. One of the companies entered and exited bankruptcy in 2009. If either company were to terminate its arrangement with us or become unable to provide the required capacity and quality on a timely basis, we may not be able to manufacture and ship our CyberDisplay products or we may be forced to manufacture them in limited quantities until replacement foundry services can be obtained. Furthermore, we cannot assure investors that we would be able to establish alternative manufacturing and packaging relationships on acceptable terms. Our reliance on these foundries involves certain risks, including but not limited to: • Lack of control over production capacity and delivery schedules; • Limited control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; • The risks associated with international commerce, including unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements, changes in tariffs and trade policies and political and economic instability; and • Natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunami, mudslides, drought, hurricanes and tornadoes. Due to natural disasters such as earthquakes and typhoons that have occasionally occurred in Taiwan, many Taiwanese companies, including the Taiwanese foundry we use, have experienced related business interruptions. Our business could suffer significantly if either of the foundries we use had operations which were disrupted for an extended period of time, due to natural disaster, political unrest or financial instability. In addition, our CyberDisplays are manufactured on 6-inch silicon wafers and we are transitioning to 8-inch wafers. We currently do not anticipate redesigning all of our displays made on 6-inch wafers so they can be manufactured on 8-inch wafers. Our current military products are primarily manufactured on 6-inch wafers. We cannot be assured that if the 6-inch manufacturing facilities we use were damaged they would be restored or whether our foundry service 17 Table of Contents providers may decide to discontinue the operation of their 6-inch manufacturing lines. If the 6-inch manufacturing lines were discontinued and the displays had to be redesigned we may need to have the displays re-qualified by our customers, which would adversely affect our business until such qualification is complete. Our customers who purchase display products for military applications typically incorporate our products into their products which are sold to the U.S. government under contracts. U.S. government contracts generally are not fully funded at inception and may be terminated or modified prior to completion, which could adversely affect our business. Congress funds the vast majority of the federal budget on an annual basis, and Congress often does not provide agencies with all the money requested in their budget. Many of our customers’ contracts cover multiple years and, as such, are not fully funded at contract award. If Congress or a U.S. government agency chooses to spend money on other programs, our customer contracts may be terminated for convenience. Federal laws, collectively called the Anti-Deficiency Act, prohibit involving the government in any obligation to pay money before funds have been appropriated for that purpose, unless otherwise allowed by law. Therefore, the Anti-Deficiency Act indirectly regulates how the agency awards our contracts and pays our invoices. Federal government contracts generally contain provisions, and are subject to laws and regulations, that provide the federal government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts, including provisions permitting the federal government to, among other provisions: terminate our existing contracts; modify some of the terms and conditions in our existing contracts; subject the award to protest or challenge by competitors; suspend work under existing multiple year contracts and related delivery orders; and claim rights in technologies and systems invented, developed or produced by us. The federal government may terminate a contract with us or our customer either “for convenience” (for instance, due to a change in its perceived needs) or if we default due to our failure or the failure of a subcontractor to perform under the contract. If the federal government terminates a contract with our customer our contract with our customers generally would entitle us to recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. However, under certain circumstances, our recovery costs upon termination for convenience of such a contract may be limited. As is common with government contractors, we have experienced occasional performance issues under some of our contracts. We may in the future receive show-cause or cure notices under contracts that, if not addressed to the federal government’s satisfaction, could give the government the right to terminate those contracts for default or to cease procuring our services under those contracts. In addition, U.S. government contracts and subcontracts typically involve long purchase and payment cycles, competitive bidding, qualification requirements, delays or changes in funding, extensive specification and performance requirements, price negotiations and milestone requirements. Each U.S. government agency often also maintains its own rules and regulations with which we must comply and which can vary significantly among agencies. Most of our military sales are on a fixed-price basis, which could subject us to losses if there are cost overruns. Under a fixed-price contract, we receive only the amount indicated in the contract, regardless of the actual cost to produce the goods. While firm fixed-price contracts allow us to benefit from potential cost savings, they also expose us to the risk of cost overruns. If the initial estimates that we use to calculate the sales price and the cost to perform the work prove to be incorrect, we could incur losses. In addition, some of our contracts have specific provisions relating to cost, scheduling, and performance. If we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts, then our cost to perform the work could increase, which would adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Some of the contracts we bid on have “Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity” or IDIQ provisions. This means we are bidding a fixed price but are not assured of the quantity the government will buy or when it will buy during the term of the contract. This means we are exposed to the risk of price increases for labor, overhead and raw materials during the term of the contract. We may incur losses on fixed-price and IDIQ contracts that we had expected to be profitable, or such contracts may be less profitable than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 18 Table of Contents The eyewear market segment may not develop or may take longer to develop than we anticipate which will impact our ability to grow revenues. Eyewear is the term we use to describe a device which is worn in a similar fashion as eye glasses and contains one or two CyberDisplays for the viewing of video images. The source of these video images may be storage devices such as video iPods, DVD players or digital multimedia broadcasting (DMB) tuners. The eyewear manufacturing companies which are currently buying our displays for eyewear products tend to be small with limited financial resources and in-house engineering expertise. Because of our strategy to reduce our efforts to sell our display products for use in low end digital still camera and camcorder applications we believe that eyewear is a critical product for the long term revenue and cash flow growth of the CyberDisplay product line. If the eyewear market does not develop or we are unable to create and manufacture products which meet the needs of the eyewear market we may be unable to grow CyberDisplay product revenues and our ability to maintain profitability will be adversely affected. Our competitors can provide integrated solutions which could result in reduced market share or impact our ability to grow. Many portable consumer electronic devices, including camcorders and digital still cameras, have two displays for viewing images, an electronic viewfinder (EVF) and a flip-out or group view display. We only provide the display that is used as the electronic viewfinder. Our competitors may offer both EVF and flip-out displays and both displays may be run by the same interface electronics. A customer who buys our display is required to buy the flip-out display from another vendor who may compete with us. This may require our customer to purchase additional interface electronics to run our display. Our competitors may be able to offer a bundled solution of both displays and the interface electronics cheaper than the cost of buying our display and the other display and the interface electronics separately. If we are unable to offer displays with sufficient performance advantages over other displays to justify the additional cost of buying individual components versus a bundled solution or if our customers can not procure cost efficient interface electronics to run our display products we may lose market share or be unable to grow our business which in turn would adversely affect our ability to maintain profitability. Our CyberDisplay™ products may not be widely accepted by the market. Our success will in large part depend on the widespread adoption of the viewing format of our CyberDisplay products in multiple applications. Our success also depends upon the widespread consumer acceptance of our customers’ products. CyberDisplay products work best when used close to the eye, which may not be acceptable to consumers. In addition, CyberDisplay products are not designed for a shared experience amongst multiple viewers at the same time. Potential customers may be reluctant to adopt our CyberDisplay products because of concerns surrounding perceived risks relating to: • The introduction of our display technology generally; • Consumer acceptance of our CyberDisplay products; and • The relative complexity, reliability, usefulness and cost-effectiveness of our display products compared to other display products available in the market or that may be developed by our competitors. In addition, our customers may be reluctant to rely upon a relatively small company like us for a critical component. We cannot assure investors that prospective customers will adopt our CyberDisplay products or that consumers will accept our CyberDisplay products in future applications. If we fail to achieve market acceptance of our CyberDisplay products, our business may not be successful and we may not be able to maintain profitability. We depend on third parties to provide integrated circuit chip sets and other critical raw materials for use with our CyberDisplay™ products. We do not manufacture the integrated circuit chip sets necessary for use with our CyberDisplay products. Instead, we rely on third party independent contractors for these integrated circuit chip sets and other critical raw materials such as special glasses and chemicals. We also may use third parties to assemble our binocular display module (BDM). The critical raw materials, including the glasses and chemicals used in manufacturing the CyberDisplay products are used by other display manufacturers, many of which are much larger than Kopin. In addition, our higher-level CyberDisplay assemblies, BDMs, and other 19 Table of Contents modules include lenses, backlights, printed circuit boards and other components, which we purchase from third party suppliers. Some of these third party contractors and suppliers are small companies with limited financial resources. In addition, relative to the commercial market, the military buys a small number of units which prevents us from qualifying and buying components economically from multiple vendors. If any of these third party contractors or suppliers were unable or unwilling to supply these integrated circuit chip sets or other critical raw materials to us, we would be unable to manufacture and sell our CyberDisplay products until a replacement supplier could be found. We cannot assure investors that a replacement third party contractor or supplier could be found on reasonable terms or in a timely manner. As recently as the third quarter of 2006, we have experienced situations when our vendors could not supply the quantity or quality of critical raw materials we needed. As a result, we were unable to meet customer demand and our revenues, manufacturing yield and gross margins were adversely affected. In addition, in 2008 and 2009 some of the vendors we use have experienced liquidity problems and had difficulty obtaining inventory financing. Any interruption in our ability to manufacture and distribute our CyberDisplay products could cause our display business to be unsuccessful and the value of investors’ investment in us may decline. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our CyberDisplay customers, which makes forecasting our revenues and operating results difficult. We generally do not enter into long-term agreements with our commercial CyberDisplay customers obligating them to purchase our products. Our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules and we generally permit orders to be canceled or rescheduled before shipment without significant penalty. As a result, our customers may cease purchasing our products at any time, which makes forecasting our revenues difficult. In addition, due to the absence of substantial non-cancelable backlog, we typically plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. Our operating results are difficult to forecast because we are continuing to invest in capital equipment and increasing our operating expenses for new product development. If we fail to accurately forecast our revenues and operating results, our business may not be successful and the value of investors’ investment in us may decline. We may have to record additional impairment losses. In fiscal years 2009 and 2008 we recorded impairment charges totaling $0.9 million and $4.2 million, respectively, related to realized and unrealized losses on investments. In addition, our KoBrite joint venture has historically had losses from operations. If the equity and bond markets decline we may have to record additional losses. If the KoBrite joint venture generates operating losses in the future we will record additional losses, which will impact our ability to achieve or maintain profitability A disruption to our information technology systems could significantly impact our operations and impact our revenue and profitability. We maintain proprietary data processing systems and use customized software systems. We also use software packages which are no longer supported by their developer. An interruption to these systems for an extended period may impact our ability to operate the businesses and process transactions which could result in a decline in sales and affect our ability to achieve or maintain profitability. Fluctuations in operating results make financial forecasting difficult and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our quarterly and annual revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly for several reasons, including: • The timing and successful introduction of additional manufacturing capacity; • The timing of the initial selection of our III-V and CyberDisplay products as a component in our customers’ new products; • Availability of interface electronics for our CyberDisplay; • Competitive pressures on selling prices of our products; • The timing and cancellation of customer orders; 20 Table of Contents • Our ability to introduce new products and technologies on a timely basis; • Our ability to successfully reduce costs; • The cancellation of U.S. government contracts; and • Our ability to secure agreements from our major customers for the purchase of our products. We typically plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. Our operating results are difficult to forecast because we continue to invest in capital equipment and increase our operating expenses for new product development. As a result of these and other factors, investors should not rely on our revenues and our operating results for any one quarter or year as an indication of our future revenues or operating results. If our quarterly revenues or results of operations fall below expectations of investors or public market analysts, the price of our common stock could fall substantially. If we fail to comply with complex procurement laws and regulations, we could lose business and be liable for various penalties or sanctions. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts. These laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our federal government contracts. In complying with these laws and regulations, we may incur additional costs, and non-compliance may also allow for the assignment of fines and penalties, including contractual damages. Among the more significant laws and regulations affecting our business are the following: • The Federal Acquisition Regulation, which comprehensively regulates the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts; • The Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; • The Cost Accounting Standards and Cost Principles, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based federal government contracts; and • Laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products, services and technical data. We engage in international work falling under the jurisdiction of U.S. export control laws. Failure to comply with these control regimes can lead to severe penalties, both civil and criminal, and can include debarment from contracting with the U.S. government. Our contracting agency customers may review our performance under and compliance with the terms of our federal government contracts. If a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including • Termination of contracts; • Forfeiture of profits; • Cost associated with triggering of price reduction clauses; • Suspension of payments; • Fines; and • Suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. Additionally, the False Claims Act provides for potentially substantial civil penalties where, for example, a contractor presents a false or fraudulent claim to the government for payment or approval. Actions under the civil False Claims Act may be brought by the government or by other persons on behalf of the government (who may then share a portion of any recovery). 21 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we may also suffer harm to our reputation, which could impair our ability to win awards of contracts in the future or receive renewals of existing contracts. If we are subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions or suffer harm to our reputation, our current business, future prospects, financial condition, or operating results could be materially harmed. The government may also revise its procurement practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations, including cost accounting standards, at any time. Any new contracting methods could be costly to satisfy, be administratively difficult for us to implement and could impair our ability to obtain new contracts. We may be unable to modify our products to meet regulatory or customer requirements. From time to time our products are subject to new domestic and international requirements such as the European Union’s Restriction on Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive. If we are unable to comply with these regulations we may not be permitted to ship our products, which would adversely affect our revenue and ability to maintain profitability. Increased competition may result in decreased demand or lower prices for our products. Competition in the markets for our products is intense and we may not be able to compete successfully. We compete with several companies, most of whom are much larger than us, who are primarily engaged in the business of designing, manufacturing and selling integrated circuits or alternative display technologies, as well as the supply of other discrete products. Our competitors could develop new process technologies that may be superior to ours, including technologies that target markets in which our products are sold. Many of our existing and potential competitors have strong market position, considerable internal manufacturing capacity, established intellectual property rights and substantial technological capabilities. Furthermore, they also have greater financial, technical, manufacturing, and marketing resources than we do, and we may not be able to compete successfully with them. In addition, many of our existing and potential customers manufacture or assemble displays and wireless communications devices and have substantial in-house technological capabilities and substantially greater resources than we do. We may not be able to sell our products to these customers and they may commercialize their internal capabilities to become our competitors. If one of our large customers establishes internal design and manufacturing capabilities, it could have an adverse effect on our operating results. We expect competition to increase. This could mean lower prices or reduced demand for our products. Any of these developments would have an adverse effect on our operating results. Disruptions of our production of our III-V and CyberDisplay products would adversely affect our operating results. If we were to experience any significant disruption in the operation of our facilities, we would be unable to supply III-V and CyberDisplay products to our customers. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex and customer specifications are extremely precise. We periodically modify our processes in an effort to improve yields and product performance and to meet particular customer requirements. Although we have two domestic manufacturing facilities for our III-V products, only one of the facilities contains our quality control testing and inspection systems. Loss of this facility could prevent us from shipping product made at our other facility. Our third III-V production facility is located in Taiwan which periodically experiences earthquakes which may affect the ability of the facility to operate. Additionally, as we introduce new equipment into our manufacturing processes, our III-V and CyberDisplay products could be subject to especially wide variations in manufacturing yields and efficiency. We may experience manufacturing problems that would result in delays in product introduction and delivery or yield fluctuations. We are also subject to the risks associated with the shortage of raw materials used in the manufacture of our products. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. We have obtained certain domestic and foreign patents and we intend to continue to seek patents on our inventions when appropriate. We also attempt to protect our proprietary information with contractual arrangements and under trade secret laws. 22 Table of Contents Our employees and consultants generally enter into agreements containing provisions with respect to confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while in our employ. These measures may not adequately protect our intellectual and proprietary rights. Existing trade secret, trademark and copyright laws afford only limited protection and our patents could be invalidated or circumvented. Moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold may not fully protect our intellectual property rights. Misappropriation of our technology and the costs of defending our intellectual property rights from misappropriation could substantially impair our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our business may not be successful and the value of investors’ investment in us may decline. Our products could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Companies in the wireless communications, semiconductor and display industries steadfastly pursue and protect intellectual property rights. This has resulted in considerable and costly litigation to determine the validity of patents and claims by third parties of infringement of patents or other intellectual property. Our products could be found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Other companies may hold or obtain patents or inventions or other proprietary rights in technology necessary for our business. Periodically companies inquire about our products and technology in their attempts to assess whether we violate their intellectual property rights. If we are forced to defend against infringement claims, we may face costly litigation, diversion of technical and management personnel, and product shipment delays, even if the allegations of infringement are unwarranted. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us and we are unable to develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely basis, or if we are required to cease using one or more of our business or product names due to a successful trademark infringement claim against us, it could adversely affect our business. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of, or fail to attract, key personnel. In order to continue to provide quality products in our rapidly changing business, we believe it is important to retain personnel with experience and expertise relevant to our business. Our success depends in large part upon a number of key management and technical employees. The loss of the services of one or more key employees, including Dr. John C.C. Fan, our President and Chief Executive Officer, could seriously impede our success. We do not maintain any “key-man” insurance policies on Dr. Fan or any other employees. In addition, due to the level of technical and marketing expertise necessary to support our existing and new customers, our success will depend upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled management, technical, and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for highly skilled personnel is intense and there may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions. If the III-V or CyberDisplay markets experience an upturn, we may need to increase our workforce. Due to the competitive nature of the labor markets in which we operate, we may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining these personnel. Our inability to attract and retain key personnel could adversely affect our ability to develop and manufacture our products. We may pursue acquisitions and investments that could adversely affect our business. In the past we have made, and in the future we may make, acquisitions of, and investments in, businesses, products and technologies that could complement or expand our business. If we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition or integrate the acquired businesses, products or technologies into our existing business and products. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets. In January 2011 we acquired Forth Dimension Displays Ltd. (FDD). If we are unable to operate FDD profitably our results of operations will be negatively affected. We may incur significant liabilities if we fail to comply with stringent environmental and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations or if we did not comply with these regulations in the past. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process. We are also subject to federal International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) laws which regulate the export of technical data and sale of 23 Table of Contents products to other nations which may use these products for military purposes. The failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, suspension of production, or a cessation of operations. Any failure on our part to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances, or otherwise comply with environmental regulations, could subject us to significant future liabilities. Any failure on our part to obtain any required licenses for the export of technical data and/or sales of our products or to otherwise comply with ITAR, could subject us to significant future liabilities. In addition, we cannot be certain that we have not in the past violated applicable laws or regulations, which violations could result in required remediation or other liabilities. We also cannot be certain that past use or disposal of environmentally sensitive materials in conformity with then existing environmental laws and regulations will protect us from required remediation or other liabilities under current or future environmental laws or regulations. Investors should not expect to receive dividends from us. We have not paid cash dividends in the past nor do we expect to pay cash dividends for the foreseeable future. We anticipate that earnings, if any, will be retained for the development of our businesses. Our stock price may be volatile in the future. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in results of operations, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, general conditions in the wireless communications, semiconductor and display markets, changes in earnings estimates by analysts or other events or factors. In addition, the public stock markets recently have experienced extreme price and trading volatility. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved SEC Comments None. 