Item 1A. Risk Factors We have a history of operating losses and negative cash flows and we may not become profitable in the future, which could ultimately result in our inability to continue operations in the normal course of business. Historically, we have incurred losses and have generated negative cash flows from operations. We incurred a consolidated loss from continuing operations of $6.8 million, $9.7 million, and $3.9 million in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. Our consolidated operating activities used cash of $5.5 million and $3.2 million during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively and provided cash of $2.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. During these periods, we have funded our operating cash requirements, as well as our capital needs, with the proceeds from investing and financing activities. We expect to continue to incur consolidated operating losses for the foreseeable future. Our ability in the future to achieve or sustain profitability is based on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the future demand for our RFID and GPS systems. If demand for such systems does not reach anticipated levels, or if we fail to manage our cost structure, we may not achieve or be able to sustain profitability. As of December 31, 2006, we and our subsidiaries, had cash and cash equivalents aggregating $1.6 million. We believe that we currently have sufficient funds to operate our business over the next twelve months. However, our goal is to achieve profitability and to generate positive cash flows from operations. Our profitability and cash flows from operations depend on many factors, including the success of our marketing programs, the maintenance and reduction of expenses and our ability to successfully develop and bring to market our new products and technologies. If, in the future, we are not successful in managing these factors and achieving our goal of profitability and positive cash flows from operations, we may not have sufficient funds to operate our business, which could ultimately result in our inability to continue operations in the normal course. The terms of our 10.25% Senior Secured Debenture subject us to the risk of foreclosure on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries. We may not have sufficient funds to repay our obligations on the 10.25% senior secured debenture when it matures. Accordingly, we may be required to obtain the funds necessary to repay these obligations either through refinancing, the issuance of additional equity or debt securities or the sale of assets. There can be no assurance that we can obtain the funds needed, if any, to repay the obligations from any one or more of these other sources on favorable economic terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain funds to repay this indebtedness, we may be forced to dispose of assets or take other actions on disadvantaged terms, which could result in losses to us and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. To secure the repayment of all debts, liabilities and obligations owed in connection with the 10.25% Senior Secured Indenture, we and our subsidiaries Digital Angel Technology Corporation, OuterLink Corporation, DSD Holding A/S, Signature Industries Limited, Digital Angel International, Inc., and Digital Angel Holdings, LLC have granted to the holder(s) security interests in and liens upon substantially all of our and such subsidiaries’ property and assets. In addition, such subsidiaries have guaranteed all of our debts, liabilities and obligations to the holder(s). If an event of default occurs under the debenture, we could be required to redeem the debenture at a premium of 110% of outstanding principal and would subject us to foreclosure by the holder(s) of our 10.25% Senior Secured Debenture on substantially all of our and our subsidiaries’ property and assets to the extent necessary to repay any amounts due. Any such default and resulting foreclosure will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Applied Digital has significant voting control over us. This may delay, prevent or deter corporate actions that may be in the best interest of our stockholders. As of March 1, 2007, Applied Digital is the beneficial owner of 55.2% of our common stock, and it controls us with respect to all matters upon which our stockholders may vote, including the selection of the Board of Directors, mergers, acquisitions and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing, or deterring a change in control of our company even when such a change may be in the best interests of all our stockholders. It could also have the effect of depriving stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company or assets and might affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. 15 Table of Contents Conflicts of interest may arise among Applied Digital, Verichip and us that could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us. Questions relating to conflicts of interest may arise between Applied Digital, our parent company, and/or Verichip, a subsidiary of Applied Digital, on the one hand, and us, on the other, in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. The chairman of our board of directors, Scott R. Silverman also serves as the chairman of the board of Applied Digital and Verichip. Areas in which conflicts of interest between or among Applied Digital, Verichip and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: Cross directorships and stock ownership. The equity interests of our directors in Applied Digital or service as a director of both Applied Digital and us could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when directors are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the two companies. For example, these decisions could relate to, among other matters: • the nature, quality and cost of services rendered to us by Applied Digital; • the desirability of a potential acquisition or joint venture opportunity; • employee retention or recruiting; and • our dividend policy. Intercompany transactions. From time to time, Applied Digital or its affiliates, including Verichip, may enter into transactions with us or our subsidiaries or other affiliates. Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between employees of Applied Digital and/or the applicable affiliate and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of the independent directors on our board or a committee of disinterested directors, there can be no assurance that the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained in arm’s-length negotiations with an unaffiliated third party. Intercompany agreements. We are the sole supplier of our implantable microchip under an agreement with Verichip. The terms of this agreement were established while we and Verichip were controlled by Applied Digital and were not the result of arm’s-length negotiations. In addition, conflicts could arise in the interpretation, or in connection with any extension or renegotiation, of the existing agreement. Since we are controlled by Applied Digital, certain independence protections provided by the AMEX Rules are currently not in place. As we are controlled by Applied Digital, we are not required to comply with certain rules and requirements of the American Stock Exchange, which we refer to as the AMEX Rules. Specifically, we are not required to have a majority of independent directors or an independent Nominating Committee. Instead, our full Board of Directors considers and nominates candidates proposed for election. One of our six directors serves as a director of Applied Digital. Therefore, certain independence protections provided by the AMEX Rules are not currently in place. We obtain the implantable microchip used in our Animal Applications segment’s products from a single supplier, making us vulnerable to supply disruptions that could constrain our sales of such systems and/or increase our per-unit cost of production of the microchip. We obtain the implantable microchip used in our Animal Applications segment’s products from RME, the actual manufacturer, under a supply agreement between us and RME. The term of that agreement expires on June 30, 2010, subject to earlier termination by either party if, among other things, the other party breaches the agreement and does not remedy the breach within 30 days of receiving notice. We and RME each own certain of the automated equipment and tooling used in the manufacture of the microchip. Accordingly, it would be difficult for us to arrange for a third party, other than RME, to manufacture the implantable microchip if for any reason RME was unable or unwilling to manufacture the implantable microchip or if RME did not manufacture sufficient implantable microchips for us to satisfy our requirements. Even if we were able to arrange to have the implantable microchip manufactured in another facility, we currently believe making such arrangements and commencement of production could take at least three to six months. A supply disruption of this length could cause customers to cancel orders, negatively affect future sales, and damage our business reputation. In addition, the per-unit cost of production at another facility could be more than the price per unit that we currently pay. 16 Table of Contents We compete with other companies in the visual and electronic identification and pilot locator beacon markets, and the products sold by our competitors could become more popular than our products or render our products obsolete. The markets for visual and electronic identification and pilot locator beacon products are highly competitive. We believe that our principal competitors in the visual identification market for livestock are AllFlex USA and Y-Tex Corporation, that our principal competitors in the electronic identification market are AllFlex USA, Datamars SA and Avid Identification Systems, Inc. and that our principal competitors in the pilot locator beacon market are Boeing North American Inc., General Dynamics Decision Systems, Tadiran Spectralink Ltd., Becker Avionic Systems, and ACR Electronics, Inc. In addition, other companies could enter this line of business in the future. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than us. We may not be able to compete successfully with these competitors, and those competitors may develop or market technologies and products that are more widely accepted than ours or that would render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. The expiration of patents in 2008 and 2009 covering the implantable microchip technology used in our Animal Applications segment will expose us to potential competition that may have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. We rely on patents covering our implantable microchip technology used in our Animal Applications segment. For the year ended December 31, 2006, sales of our products relying on this technology were $13.8 million. These patents expire in 2008 and 2009. Without patent protection, our competitors may independently develop similar technology or duplicate our systems, which may have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Infringement by third parties on our intellectual property or development of substantially equivalent proprietary technology by our competitors could negatively affect our business. Our success depends significantly on our ability to: • maintain patent and trade secret protection; • obtain future patents and licenses; and • operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance that the measures we have taken to protect our intellectual property will prevent the misappropriation or circumvention of our intellectual property. In addition, there can be no assurance that any patent application, when filed, will result in an issued patent, or that our existing patents, or any patents that may be issued in the future, will provide us with significant protection against competitors. Moreover, there can be no assurance that any patents issued to or licensed by us will not be infringed upon or circumvented by others. Litigation to establish the validity of patents and to assert infringement claims against others can be expensive and time-consuming, even if the outcome, which is often uncertain, is in our favor. Infringement on our intellectual property or the development of substantially equivalent technology by our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business. If others assert that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, we may be drawn into costly disputes and risk paying substantial damages or losing the right to sell our products. We face the risk of adverse claims and litigation alleging our infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. If infringement claims are brought against us or our suppliers these assertions could distract management and necessitate our expending potentially significant funds and resources to defend or settle such claims. We cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources to defend ourselves against any patent or other intellectual property litigation. If we or our suppliers are unsuccessful in any challenge to our rights to market and sell our products, we may, among other things, be required to: • pay actual damages, royalties, lost profits and/or increased damages and the third party’s attorneys’ fees, which may be substantial; • cease the development, manufacture, use and/or sale of products that use the intellectual property in question through a court-imposed sanction called an injunction; 17 Table of Contents • expend significant resources to modify or redesign our products, manufacturing processes or other technology so that it does not infringe others’ intellectual property rights or to develop or acquire non-infringing technology, which may not be possible; and • obtain licenses to the disputed rights, which could require us to pay substantial upfront fees and future royalty payments and may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, or to cease marketing the challenged products. Ultimately, we could be prevented from selling a product or otherwise forced to cease some aspect of our business operations as a result of any intellectual property litigation. Even if we or our suppliers are successful in defending an infringement claim, the expense, time delay, and burden on management of litigation and negative publicity could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our inability to safeguard our intellectual property may adversely affect our business by causing us to lose a competitive advantage or by forcing us to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation to defend or enforce our rights. We rely on copyrights, trademarks, trade secret protections, know-how, and contractual safeguards to protect our non-patented intellectual property, including our software technologies. Our employees, consultants and advisors are required to enter into confidentiality agreements that prohibit the disclosure or use of our confidential information. We also have entered into confidentiality agreements to protect our confidential information delivered to third parties for research and other purposes. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively enforce these agreements, the confidential information will not be disclosed, others will not independently develop substantially equivalent confidential information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our confidential information, or that we can meaningfully protect our confidential information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our confidential information, and failure to maintain the confidentiality of our confidential information could adversely affect our business by causing us to lose a competitive advantage maintained through such confidential information. Disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to any technology developed with third parties. These and other possible disagreements could lead to delays in the collaborative research, development or commercialization of our systems, or could require or result in costly and time-consuming litigation that may not be decided in our favor. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations by delaying our ability to commercialize innovations or by diverting our resources away from revenue-generating projects. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may be less effective in some foreign countries where intellectual property rights are not as well protected as in the United States. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Policing unauthorized use of the intellectual property utilized in our systems and system components is difficult, and there is a risk that our means of protecting our intellectual property may prove inadequate in these countries. Our competitors in these countries may independently develop similar technology or duplicate our systems, which would likely reduce our sales in these countries. Furthermore, some of our patent rights may be limited in enforceability to the United States or certain other select countries, which may limit our intellectual property rights abroad. Domestic and foreign government regulation and other factors could impair our ability to develop and sell our products in certain markets. The electronic animal identification market can be negatively affected by such factors as food safety concerns, price, consumer perceptions regarding cost and efficacy, international technology standards, government regulation, and slaughterhouse removal of microchips. We are also subject to federal, state and local regulation in the United States, including regulation by the FDA, FCC and the USDA, and similar regulatory bodies in other countries. We cannot predict the extent to which we may be affected by further legislative and regulatory developments concerning our products and markets. We are required to obtain regulatory approval before marketing most of our products. The regulatory process can be very time-consuming and costly, and there is no assurance that we will receive the regulatory approvals necessary to sell our products under development. Regulatory authorities also have the authority to revoke approval of previously approved products for cause, to request recalls of products and to close manufacturing plants in response to violations. Any such regulatory action, including the failure to obtain such approval, could prevent us from selling, or materially impair our ability to sell, our products in certain markets and could negatively affect our business. 18 Table of Contents We rely heavily on revenues derived from sales to various governmental agencies of our animal identification and search and rescue beacon products, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders from these customers could result in significant losses and deficits in cash flows from operations. Our principal customers for electronic identification devices for fish are Pacific States Marine, a government contractor that relies on funding from the U.S. government, and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Our GPS and Radio Communications segment is heavily dependent on contracts with domestic government agencies and foreign governments, including the United Kingdom, primarily relating to military applications. Under certain contracts, a government agency is permitted to terminate its contract for convenience, including in cases when funds are no longer appropriated. Because we rely on revenues and cash flows generated from contracts, directly or indirectly, with governmental agencies, the loss of any such contract would result in a decrease in revenues and cash flows, and such a decrease may be significant and thereby have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Loss of our principal distributor or customers could negatively affect our net revenue. Our pet identification and location system is marketed in the U.S. by Schering-Plough. For the year ended December 31, 2006, Schering-Plough accounted for approximately 15% of our revenues. It may be difficult and time-consuming for us to arrange for distribution of the implantable microchip by a third party. The loss of Schering-Plough as our exclusive distributor may negatively affect future sales. Our principal customers for electronic identification devices for fish are Pacific States Marine and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders from these customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Technological change could cause our products and technology to become obsolete or require us to redesign our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Technological changes within the industries that we conduct business may require us to expend substantial resources in an effort to develop new products and technology. We may not be able to anticipate or respond to technological changes in a timely manner, and our response may not result in successful product development and timely product introductions. If we are unable to anticipate or respond to technological changes, our business could be adversely affected. We depend on a small team of senior management to manage our business effectively, and if we are unable to hire, retain or motivate qualified personnel, our ability to design, develop, market and sell our systems could be harmed. Our future success depends, in part, on certain key employees, including Kevin McGrath, our chief executive officer and president, and key technical and operations personnel, and on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineering, operations, finance and accounting, sales, and marketing personnel, may also seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. Our foreign operations pose additional risks to our business. We operate our business and market our products internationally. During the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 49% of our sales were to foreign countries. Our foreign operations are subject to the risks described above, as well as risks related to compliance with foreign laws and other economic or political uncertainties. International sales are subject to risks related to general economic conditions, currency exchange rate fluctuations, imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other restrictions, enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and compliance with applicable foreign laws, and other economic and political uncertainties. All of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. 19 Table of Contents Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we write-off goodwill and other intangible assets. As of December 31, 2006, we had recorded goodwill of approximately $51.2 million. On January 1, 2002, we adopted FAS 142, which requires that goodwill and certain intangibles no longer be amortized but instead tested for impairment at least annually by applying a fair value based test. In the fourth quarters of 2006, 2005 and 2004, we performed our annual impairment test for goodwill and certain other intangible assets using a fair value based approach, primarily discounted cash flows. Based on our evaluations, goodwill and other intangible assets were not impaired as of December 2006 and December 2004. However, during the fourth quarter of 2005, we recorded an impairment charge of approximately $7.1 million for goodwill and other intangible assets associated with our Outerlink subsidiary. We assess the fair value of our goodwill and other intangible assets annually or earlier if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of these assets below their carrying value. These events or circumstances would include a significant change in business climate, including a significant, sustained decline in an entity’s market value, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of the business, or other factors. If we determine that significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to write off the impaired portion of goodwill and our other intangible assets. Impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We have effected or entered into (and will likely continue to effect or enter into) capital raising transactions, acquisitions, legal settlements and contracts for services that involve the issuance of shares of our common stock (or securities convertible into or exchangeable for such shares) and, as a result, the value of our common stock may be further diluted. We have effected and entered into (and will likely continue to effect and enter into) capital raising transactions, acquisitions, legal settlements, and contracts for services that involve the issuance of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for such shares. In addition, if we elect to make the monthly payment due under the $6 million Senior Secured Debenture in shares of our common stock in lieu of cash, they will be valued at a discount to the then current market price of a share of our common stock and may be dilutive to the value of our common stock. These share issuances may be dilutive to the value of our common stock and may result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. The exercise of options and warrants outstanding and available for issuance may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of March 1, 2007, we had approximately 11,780,000 options and 1,229,000 warrants outstanding to purchase from us a total of 13,009,000 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $0.05 to $10.50 per share. As of March 1, 2007, the weighted average exercise price of the options and warrants outstanding was $3.72. The exercise of outstanding options and warrants and the sale in the public market of the shares purchased upon such exercise may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 