ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We wish to caution each reader of this Form 10-K to consider the following factors and other factors discussed herein and in other past reports, including but not limited to our prior year Form 10-K and quarterly Form 10-Q reports filed with the SEC. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially affected by any of the following risks. The factors discussed herein are not exhaustive. Therefore, the factors contained herein should be read together with other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and reports and documents that we file with the SEC from time to time, which may supplement, modify, supersede or update the factors listed in this document. The timing of cash flow is difficult to predict, and any significant delay in the contract cycle could materially impair our cash flow. The timing of our cash receipts from contracts receivable is unpredictable. In many cases we are a subcontractor to the general contractor on the project and, therefore, we often must collect outstanding contracts receivable from the general contractor, which, in turn, the general contractor must collect from the customer. As a result, we are dependent upon the timing and success of the general contractor in collecting contracts receivable as well as the credit worthiness of the general contractor and the customer. Additionally, many of our contracts provide for retention of a portion of our billings until the project has been accepted by the owner. As our activities are usually early in the contract cycle, if we are acting as a subcontractor, the retainage (typically 5% to 10% of the contract value) may be held until the project is complete. This time frame may be many months after our completion of our portion of the contract. This delay further subjects us to the credit risk associated with the general contractor and the owner of the project. We can and often do avail ourselves of lien rights and other security common to the construction industry to offset the aforementioned credit risk. Unexpected delays in receiving amounts due from customers can put a strain on our cash availability and cause us to delay 6 Table of Contents payments to vendors and subcontractors. Additionally, even if we have successfully completed our work on a project and there are no disputes regarding our performance of such work, any disputes between the general contractor and the owner regarding other aspects of the completed projects by entities other than us could result in further delays, or could prevent, payment for our work. At January 31, 2009, we had approximately $4.8 million of costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts. Included in this amount is approximately $1.9 million of costs related to contracts claims and / or unapproved change orders. Of the $23.6 million in contracts receivable, approximately $2.9 million of contracts receivable represented contract claims and / or unapproved change orders. We expect to process change orders or pursue contract claims for at least the full amount of these costs relative to the aforementioned contracts. Losses expected to be incurred on contracts in progress are charged to earnings in the period such losses are known. Contract revenue reflects the original contract price adjusted for approved change orders and estimated minimum recoveries of unapproved change orders and claims. We recognize unapproved change orders and claims to the extent that related costs have been incurred and when it is probable that they will result in additional contract revenue and their value can be reliably estimated. We are dependent upon our loan agreement and other financing to finance operations, and the failure to maintain this financing or to obtain replacement refinancing, would have a material adverse effect on our operations. As of February 28, 2009, we have a $15.0 million loan agreement from our financial institution, The Huntington Bank National Association (successor in interest to Sky Bank). We rely significantly upon our revolving line of credit in order to operate our business. The line of credit and term loan is secured by a “blanket” security interest in our assets and a mortgage on the real estate owned by us. We expect that we will be able to maintain our existing loan agreement (or to obtain replacement or additional financing) when it expires on August 3, 2010, or becomes fully utilized. We may have difficulty securing replacement financing or additional financing upon the same or substantially similar terms to our existing loan agreement. Because the global capital and credit markets have been severely constrained, we may not be able to obtain additional or replacement financing or, even if we are able to obtain additional or replacement financing, such financing may not be upon the same or substantially similar terms or may contain more onerous debt covenants that may be difficult for the Company to achieve. Inability to obtain additional financing should our capital requirements change or to obtain replacement financing upon expiration of our current loan agreement could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. At January 31, 2009, we were not in compliance with all of the covenants of our debt agreement. The bank subsequently waived certain covenants and amended the loan agreement in order to enable us to retroactively be in compliance at January 31, 2009. At January 31, 2008, we were in compliance with all of the covenants of our debt agreement. At January 31, 2009, the amount borrowed on the revolving line of credit was $14,689,000 with an unused availability of $606,000. On May 14, 2009, the Company and its sole remaining preferred shareholder entered into an exchange agreement pursuant to which the Series C Convertible Preferred Stock were surrendered and exchanged for a subordinated secured promissory note of nearly $5 million dollars due to the subordinated lender on August 31, 2010 (the “Subordinated Note”), with the possibility of an additional $600,000 note (the “Additional Note” and together with the Subordinated Note, the “Subordinated Notes”) with substantially the same terms in certain circumstances. The Subordinated Notes are subordinate only to the debt to Huntington Bank, the terms of which are set forth in a subordinated and intercreditor agreement. Our loan agreement contains restrictive covenants that limit our financial and operational flexibility and our ability to pay dividends. Our loan agreement contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability to incur debt, require us to maintain certain financial ratios, such as a debt service coverage ratio and leverage ratio, and restrict our ability to pay dividends. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions and we may be unable to comply with these covenants in the future. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under this loan agreement which could result in additional interest payments to become due and payable both to our senior lender pursuant to this loan agreement and to the subordinated lender pursuant to the Subordinated Notes. If we default, our senior lender will no longer be obligated to extend revolving loans to us and both the senior and subordinated lenders could declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay those amounts, our lender could proceed against the collateral granted to it to secure the indebtedness. The result of these actions would have a significantly negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. These restrictions may also adversely affect our ability to conduct and expand our operations. Adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on favorable terms. Even if adequate funds are available, our loan agreement may restrict our ability to raise additional funds. If we are unable to raise capital, our finances and operations may be adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents A continuing downturn in the U.S. economy may adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Demand for our services and our ability to collect payment is increasingly dependent upon the strength of the U.S. economy. If current economic conditions continue, the construction business, which contributes to the demand for our services, could be even more adversely affected than experienced to date, which in turn could adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Many factors could continue to adversely affect regional or U.S. economic growth. Some of these factors include: • poor availability of credit to those that use our services, • continued downturns in the construction business, • continued recession in the United States economy, • reduced levels of economic activity in the United States economy. The recent challenging economic conditions also may impair our ability to collect timely payments or otherwise constrict the demand for our services. As a result, revenues may decline and reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of contracts receivable may increase. We are subject to the risk and uncertainties experienced by contractors. We operate a labor-intensive business throughout the United States. Therefore, we are subject to employee risks inherent in the construction industry including employee fraud, fictitious employees, employee theft, violation of federal, state and / or local regulations and fraudulent workers’ compensation claims among other risks. While we actively monitor our branch offices and have controls in place at both the branch office and corporate level to ensure that our control procedures are complied with, our decentralized operation and the job site nature of our construction activities, (at any time we have in excess of 150 projects in process), subject us to the risk that illegal activities may be occurring that we are unaware of. If we are unable to maintain adequate insurance and sufficient bonding capacity, our operations would be significantly impaired. The number and size of contracts that we can perform is directly dependent upon our ability to obtain sufficient insurance and bonding. We maintain an insurance and bonding program consistent with our operational needs. However, there have been events in the national economy, which have adversely affected the major insurance and surety companies. This has resulted in a tightening of the insurance and bonding markets, which has resulted in increasing costs and the availability of certain types of insurance and surety capacity either decreasing or becoming non-existent. We believe our current insurance and bonding programs will be sufficient to satisfy our needs in the future. However, if such programs are insufficient, we may be unable to secure and perform contracts, which would substantially impair our ability to operate our business. Additionally, we may incur liabilities that may not be covered by insurance policies, or, if covered, the dollar amount of such liabilities may exceed our policy limits. Such claims could also make it difficult for us to obtain adequate insurance coverage in the future at a reasonable cost. A partially or completely uninsured claim, if successful and of significant magnitude, could cause us to suffer a significant loss and reduce cash available for our operations. If our insurance costs increase significantly, these incremental costs could negatively affect our financial results. Environmental remediation operations may expose our employees and others to dangerous and potentially toxic quantities of hazardous products. Such products may cause cancer and other debilitating diseases. Although we take precautions to minimize worker exposure and have not experienced any such claims from workers or others, there can be no assurance that, in the future, we will avoid liability to persons who contract diseases that may be related to such exposure. Such persons potentially include employees, persons occupying or visiting facilities in which contaminants are being, or have been, removed or stored, persons in surrounding areas, and persons engaged in the transportation and disposal of waste material. In addition, we are subject to general risks inherent in the construction industry. We may also be exposed to liability from the acts of our subcontractors or other contractors on a work site. The costs related to obtaining and maintaining workers’ compensation, professional and general liability insurance and health insurance have been increasing. If the cost of carrying such insurance continues to increase significantly, we will recognize an associated increase in costs that may negatively impact its margins. This could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and the price of our common stock. We depend upon a few key employees and the loss of these employees would severely impact us. Our success is dependent upon the efforts of our senior management and staff. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executives except with our Chief Executive Officer, John Regan, who has a three-year employment agreement, expiring March 15, 2012. If key individuals leave us, we could be adversely affected if suitable replacement personnel are not quickly recruited. Our 8 Table of Contents future success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. There is competition for qualified personnel and in some markets there is a shortage of qualified personnel in the business in which we operate. If we are unable to continue to attract or retain highly qualified managerial, technical and marketing personnel, the development, growth and future success of our business could be adversely affected. A significant number of our contracts are awarded via competitive bid and are priced as fixed fees, and a failure to accurately estimate the cost of such work could result in significant financial losses. A significant amount of our business is performed on a contract basis as a result of competitive bidding and is priced at fixed fees. We must estimate the costs involved with the applicable contract prior to submitting a bid and, therefore, if awarded the contract bears the risk if actual costs exceed the estimated costs. Cost overruns on projects covered by such contracts, due to such things as unanticipated price increases, unanticipated problems, inefficient project management, inaccurate estimation of labor or material costs or disputes over the terms and specifications of contract performance or change orders could have a material adverse effect on us and our operations. In addition, in order to remain competitive in the future, we may have to continue to enter into more fixed-price contracts. The environmental remediation business is subject to significant government regulations, and the failure to comply with any such regulations could result in fines or injunctions, which could materially impair or even prevent the operation of our business. The environmental remediation business is subject to substantial regulations promulgated by governmental agencies, including the EPA, various state agencies and county and local authorities acting in conjunction with such federal and state entities. These federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, which govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water, as well as the handling, storage, and disposal of hazardous materials and the remediation of contaminated sites. Our business often involves working around and with volatile, toxic and hazardous substances and other highly regulated materials, the improper characterization, handling or disposal of which could constitute violations of United States federal, state or local laws and regulations and result in criminal and civil liabilities. Environmental laws and regulations generally impose limitations and standards for certain pollutants or waste materials and require us to obtain a permit and comply with various other requirements. Governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us, or revoke or deny issuance or renewal of operating permits, for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. We are also exposed to potential liability for personal injury or property damage caused by any release, spill, exposure or other accident involving such substances or materials. The environmental health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject are constantly changing, and it is impossible to predict the effect of such laws and regulations on us in the future. We cannot predict what future changes in laws and regulations may be or that these changes in the laws and regulations will not cause us to incur significant costs or adopt more costly methods of operation. The microbial remediation portion of our business currently is largely unregulated. As this business grows it is likely that government regulation will increase. We cannot predict how the regulations may evolve or whether they may require increased capital and / or operating expenditures to comply with the new regulations. The failure to obtain and maintain required governmental licenses, permits and approvals could have a substantial adverse effect on our operations. Certain portions of the environmental and specialty contracting industry are highly regulated. In portions of our business we are required to have federal, state and local governmental licenses, permits and approvals for our facilities and services. We cannot be assured of the successful outcome of any pending application or demonstration testing for any such license, permit or approval. In addition our existing licenses, permits and approvals are subject to revocation or modification under a variety of circumstances. Failure to obtain timely or to comply with the conditions of, applicable licenses permits or approvals could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As our business expands and as new procedures and technologies used in our business are introduced, we may be required to obtain additional operating licenses, permits or approvals. We may also be required to obtain additional operating licenses, permits or approvals if new environmental legislation or regulations are enacted or promulgated or existing legislation or regulations are amended, reinterpreted or enforced differently than in the past. Any new requirements that raise compliance standards may require us to modify our procedures and technologies to conform to more stringent regulatory requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to comply with all of the environmental and other regulatory requirements applicable to the business we operate. The receipt of contract awards is unpredictable, and the failure to adjust our overhead structure to meet an unexpected decline in revenue could significantly impact our net income. We are an environmental and specialty contractor and as such are affected by the timing of the award of large contracts. Therefore, backlogs, revenues and income are subject to significant fluctuation between quarters and years. Since our overhead structure is reasonably fixed, we may not be able to rapidly adjust our operating expenses to meet an unexpected decline in revenue, which could materially and adversely affect revenue and net income. 9 Table of Contents The environmental remediation and specialty contracting industries are highly competitive and we face substantial competition from other companies. The environmental remediation and specialty contracting industries are very competitive. Many of our competitors have greater financial, managerial, technical and marketing resources than we have. To the extent that competitors possess or develop superior or more cost-effective environmental remediation solutions or field service capabilities, or otherwise possess or acquire competitive advantages compared to us, our ability to compete effectively could be materially adversely affected. Our operating results may vary from quarter-to-quarter, causing our stock price to fluctuate. Our operating results have in the past been subject to quarter-to-quarter fluctuations, and we expect that these fluctuations will continue, and may increase in magnitude, in future periods. Demand for our services is driven by many factors, including national and regional economic trends, the occurrence of unanticipated natural disasters, changes in governmental regulation and our success in being awarded contracts, among other items. These fluctuations in customer demand for our services can create corresponding fluctuations in quarter-to-quarter revenues, and therefore results in one period may not be indicative of our revenues in any future quarter. In addition, the number and timing of large individual contracts are difficult to predict, and large individual sales have, in some cases, occurred in quarters subsequent to those we anticipated, or have not occurred at all. The loss or deferral of one or more significant contracts in a quarter could harm our operating results. It is possible that in some quarters our operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. In such events, or in the event adverse conditions prevail, the market price of our common stock may decline significantly. It is also possible that in some quarters our operating results, particularly with respect to disaster response, will be unusually high due to the occurrence of unanticipated natural disasters. In these situations, our operating results in subsequent financial quarters may decline, which could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. We cannot give any assurance that we will be able to secure additional financing to meet our future capital needs. Our long-term capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, cash flow from operations, the level of capital expenditures, working capital requirements and the growth of our business. We may need to incur additional indebtedness or raise additional capital to fund the capital needs of our operations or related growth opportunities. To the extent additional debt financing cannot be raised on acceptable terms, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity financings. No assurance can be given that additional debt or equity financing will be available or that, if such financing is available, the terms of such financing will be favorable to us or to our stockholders. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to curtail our future operations significantly or to forego expansion opportunities. A significant portion of our voting power is held by our directors, officers and significant stockholders, whose interest may conflict with those of our other stockholders. Currently our directors and officers as a group beneficially own approximately 9.8% of our voting securities. Accordingly, acting together, they may be able to substantially influence the election of directors, management and policies and the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, one stockholder, unrelated to the Corporation, has filed a Schedule 13-G noting ownership of our common stock in excess of 5% of our outstanding common shares. Accordingly, that stockholder may be able to substantially influence the election of directors, management and policies and the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. From time to time, these unrelated stockholders may have interests that differ from those of our other stockholders. There may be limited liquidity in our common stock and its price may be subject to fluctuation. Our common stock is currently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board and there is only a limited market for our common stock. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to have our common stock listed on an exchange or quoted on NASDAQ or that we will continue to be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. If there is no market for trading our common stock, our stockholders will have substantial difficulty in trading in it and the market price of our common stock will be materially and adversely affected. SEC rules concerning sales of low-priced securities may hinder re-sales of our common stock. Because our common stock has a market price that is less than five dollars per share and our common stock is not listed on an exchange or quoted on NASDAQ and is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, brokers and dealers who handle trades in our common stock are subject to certain SEC rules when affecting trades in our common stock. Additionally, the compensation that the brokerage firm and the salesperson handling a trade receive and legal remedies available to the buyer are also subject to SEC rules. These requirements may hinder re-sales of our common stock and may adversely affect the market price of the common stock. 10 Table of Contents Our strategy will include making additional acquisitions that may present risks to the business. Making additional strategic acquisitions is part of our strategy. For example, on August 25, 2005, we completed the acquisition of certain assets of Flagship and its affiliated companies. Our ability to make future acquisitions will depend upon identifying attractive acquisition candidates and, if necessary, obtaining financing on satisfactory terms. Acquisitions may pose certain risks to us. These risks include the following: • we may be entering markets in which we have limited experience; • the acquisitions may be potential distractions to us and may divert resources and managerial time; • it may be difficult or costly to integrate an acquired business’ financial, computer, payroll and other systems into our own; • we may have difficulty implementing additional controls and information systems appropriate for a growing Corporation; • some of the acquired businesses may not achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow; • we may have unanticipated liabilities or contingencies from an acquired business; • we may have reduced earnings due to amortization expenses, goodwill impairment charges, increased interest costs and costs related to the acquisition and its integration; • we may finance future acquisitions by issuing common stock for some or all of the purchase price which could dilute the ownership interests of the stockholders; • acquired companies will have to become, within one year of their acquisition, compliant with SEC rules relating to internal control over financial reporting adopted pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; • we may be unable to retain management and other key personnel of an acquired Corporation; and • we may impair relationships with an acquired Corporation’s employees, suppliers or customers by changing management. If we are unsuccessful in meeting the challenges arising out of our acquisitions, our business, financial condition and future results could be materially harmed. Additionally, to the extent that the value of the assets acquired in any prior or future acquisitions, including goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives, becomes impaired, we would be required to incur impairment charges that would affect earnings. Such impairment charges could reduce our earnings and have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. We are required to file and to keep effective a shelf registration statement for stockholders and if we are unable to do so for the required period we may be required to make additional payments to the holders of the Common Stock issued in connection with the July 2005 private placement of our securities. In connection with the private placements, we entered into registration rights agreements with the Common Stockholders and Preferred Stockholders. Under these registration rights agreements, we agreed to file a registration statement for the purpose of registering the resale of the common stock and the shares of common stock underlying the convertible securities we issued in the private placements. The registration rights agreements require us to keep the registration statement effective for a specified period of time. In the event that the registration statement is not filed or declared effective within the specified deadlines or is not effective for any period exceeding a permitted Black-Out Period (45 consecutive Trading Days but no more than an aggregate of 75 Trading Days during any 12-month period), then we will be obligated to pay the Preferred and Common Stockholders up to 12% of their purchase price per annum. On November 21, 2005, our Registration Statement on Form S-2 was declared effective by the SEC. Other than the aforementioned monetary penalty, there are no provisions requiring cash payments or settlements if registered shares cannot be provided upon conversion / exercise or the shareholders cannot sell their shares due to a blackout event. After assessing the provisions of the registration rights agreements and the related authoritative guidance a $20,000 warrant derivative liability was provided. No gain or loss on the derivative was recorded in the year ended January 31, 2009 and 2008, and the liability was recorded in accrued liabilities in the year ended January 31, 2006. On May 10, 2006, the Post Effective Amendment #1 was declared effective by the SEC. As of May 14, 2009, the Corporation has utilized sixty-seven of permitted aggregate Black-Out days. Other than the aforementioned monetary penalty, there are no provisions requiring cash payments or settlements if registered shares cannot be provided upon conversion / exercise or the shareholders cannot sell their shares due to a blackout event. 11 Table of Contents We may be subject from time to time to legal proceedings, and any adverse determinations in these proceedings could materially harm our business. We are a party to a number of legal proceedings brought against us which have arisen in the normal course of business. These proceedings typically relate to contract issues or counter claims. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and we cannot predict the outcome of any matters. Were an unfavorable ruling to occur, we may be liable for monetary damages and other costs of litigation, which may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and / or financial position for the period in which the ruling occurs and may result in an event of default in our loan agreement with Huntington Bank or our subordinated notes with the subordinated lender. Even if we are entirely successful in a lawsuit, we may incur significant legal expenses and our management may expend significant time in the defense. An adverse resolution of a lawsuit or legal proceeding could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. 