Risk Factors” in Item 1A. Our Onsite business activities by reportable segment are described below. Janitorial Our Janitorial segment provides a wide range of essential janitorial services for a variety of client facilities, including airports and other transportation centers, commercial office buildings, educational institutions, government buildings, health facilities, industrial buildings, retail stores, shopping centers, stadiums and arenas, and warehouses. These services include carpet cleaning and dusting, floor cleaning and finishing, furniture polishing, window washing, and other building cleaning services. Janitorial services are provided in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, as well as in certain international locations. This segment has thousands of contracts, most of which are obtained by competitive bidding. These arrangements include “fixed-price” arrangements, “cost-plus” arrangements, and “tag” (supplemental services) work. Fixed-price arrangements are contracts in which the client agrees to pay a fixed fee every month over a specified contract term. A variation of a fixed-price arrangement is a square-foot arrangement, under which monthly billings are based on the actual square footage serviced. In cost-plus arrangements, the clients reimburse us for the agreed-upon amount of wages and benefits, payroll taxes, insurance charges, and other expenses associated with the contracted work, plus a profit margin. Tag work generally consists of supplemental services requested by clients outside of the standard service specification. Examples are cleanup after tenant moves, construction cleanup, flood cleanup, snow removal, and extermination services. The majority of the Janitorial segment’s contracts are fixed-price agreements for one to three year periods that contain automatic renewal clauses but are subject to termination by either party upon 30 to 90 days’ written notice. Profit margins on contracts tend to be inversely proportional to the size of the contract, as large-scale contracts tend to be more competitively priced than small or stand-alone agreements. Facility Services Our Facility Services segment provides onsite mechanical engineering and technical services and solutions for facilities and infrastructure systems for a variety of client facilities, including airports and other transportation centers, commercial infrastructure, corporate office buildings, data centers, educational institutions, high technology manufacturing facilities, museums, resorts, and shopping centers. These services are designed to extend the useful life of facility fixed assets, improve equipment operating efficiencies, reduce energy consumption, lower overall operational costs for clients, and enhance the sustainability of client locations. Facility services are provided in 42 states and the District of Columbia, as well as in certain international locations. The majority of our Facility Services contracts are structured as cost-plus arrangements in which clients reimburse us for the agreed-upon amount of wages and benefits, payroll taxes, insurance charges, and other expenses associated with the contracted work, plus a profit margin. Additionally, most Facility Services contracts are for three year periods and may contain renewal clauses, but are subject to termination by either party upon 30 to 90 days’ written notice. Nearly all Facility Services contracts are obtained by competitive bidding. 3 Table of Contents Parking Our Parking segment provides parking and transportation services for clients at many facilities, including airports and other transportation centers, educational institutions, health facilities, hotels, municipalities, office buildings, retail centers, and stadiums and arenas. Parking services are provided in 41 states and the District of Columbia. There are three types of arrangements for parking services: managed locations, leased locations, and allowance locations. Nearly all contracts are obtained by competitive bidding. Under managed locations arrangements, we manage the underlying parking facility for the owner in exchange for a management fee. Contract terms for managed locations arrangements are generally from one to three years, can usually be terminated upon 30 days’ notice, and may also contain renewal clauses. We pass through revenues and expenses from managed locations to the facility owner under the terms and conditions of the contract. We report revenues and expenses, in equal amounts, for costs directly reimbursed from our managed locations. Such amounts comprised approximately 49.6% of the Parking segment revenues in the year ended October 31, 2013. Under leased locations arrangements, we lease parking facilities from the owner and we are responsible for a majority of the operating expenses incurred. We retain all revenues from monthly and transient parkers and pay rent to the owner per the terms and conditions of the lease. The lease terms generally range from one to five years and provide for payment of a fixed amount of rent plus a percentage of revenues. The leases usually contain renewal options and may be terminated by the owner for various reasons, including development of real estate. Leases that expire may continue on a month-to-month basis. Under allowance locations arrangements, we are paid a fixed or hourly fee to provide parking services and are then responsible for the agreed-upon operating expenses based upon the agreement terms. Allowance locations contract terms are generally from one to three years, can usually be terminated upon 30 days’ notice, and may also contain renewal clauses. We continue to improve parking operations through the increased use of technology, including enhancements to our proprietary revenue control software, SCORE4; implementation of our client access software, ABM4WD.com; and increased use of our on-line payment software. Security Our Security segment provides security services for a wide range of facilities, including Class “A” high rise, commercial, health, industrial, petro-chemical, residential, and retail facilities. Security services include staffing of security officers, mobile patrol services, investigative services, electronic monitoring of fire and life safety systems and access control devices, and security consulting services. Security staffing, or “guarding,” is the provision of dedicated security officers to a client facility. This component is the core of our security business and represents the largest portion of security revenues. Mobile patrol is the use of roving security officers in vehicles that serve multiple locations and clients across a pre-defined geographic area. Investigative services include white collar crime investigation, undercover operations, and background screening services. Electronic monitoring is primarily achieved through our partnership with a major systems integrator. Security services are provided in 42 states, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. The revenues for the Security segment are generally based on actual hours of service at contractually specified rates. In some cases, flat monthly billing or single rate billing is used, especially in the case of mobile patrol and investigative services. The majority of Security contracts are for one year periods and generally contain automatic renewal clauses, but are subject to termination by either party upon 30 to 90 days’ written notice. Nearly all Security contracts are obtained by competitive bidding. Building & Energy Solutions The business activities of our Building & Energy Solutions segment, which includes our mobile and on-demand operations, are described below. Our Building & Energy Solutions segment provides heating, ventilation, air-conditioning, electrical, lighting and other general maintenance and repair services. These services include preventative maintenance, retro-commissioning, installations, retrofits and upgrades, environmental services, systems start-ups, performance testing, energy audits, and bundled energy solutions for a wide variety of clients in both the private and public sectors. These services are designed to extend the useful life of facility fixed assets, improve equipment operating efficiencies, reduce energy consumption, lower overall operational costs for clients, and enhance the sustainability of client locations. Also included within the Building & Energy Solutions segment are our franchised operations under the Linc Network, TEGG, and CurrentSAFE brands, which provide mechanical and electrical preventive and predictive maintenance solutions. Our GreenHomes America brand provides home energy efficiency solutions. These franchised operations contributed approximately 6.0% to this segment’s revenue in the year ended October 31, 2013. The operations of the recently acquired HHA business, and the acquisition of certain assets and liabilities of Calvert-Jones Company, Inc. (“Calvert-Jones”), and BEST Infrared Services, Inc. (“BEST”) are also included within this segment’s results in the year ended October 31, 2013. Our Building & Energy Solutions segment operates in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, as well as in certain international locations. The most significant client, with approximately 40 contracts, provided 20.4% of revenues for this segment in 2013. 4 Table of Contents This segment also provides support to U.S. Government entities for specialty service solutions, such as military base operations, leadership development, education and training, energy efficiency management, medical support services, and construction management. The Building & Energy Solutions contracts are structured as cost-plus arrangements, fixed-price arrangements, fixed-price repair and refurbishment arrangements, and franchise arrangements. In cost-plus arrangements, clients reimburse us for the agreed-upon amount of wages and benefits, payroll taxes, insurance charges, and other expenses associated with the contracted work, plus a profit margin. Fixed-price agreements are contracts in which the client agrees to pay a fixed fee for a defined scope of services. Certain fixed-price repair and refurbishment arrangements are accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, most often based on the cost-to-cost method. For franchise operations, initial franchise fees are recognized when we have performed substantially all initial services required by the franchise agreement. Continuing franchise royalty fees that are based on a percentage of the franchisees’ revenues are recognized in the period in which the revenue is reported to have occurred, whereas franchise fees charged to franchisees on a flat rate are recognized as earned. The majority of Building & Energy Solutions contracts are for one to three years and may contain renewal clauses, but are subject to termination by either party upon 30 to 90 days’ written notice. U.S. Government contracts are normally structured as one year contracts with multiple option years and contain the contractual right for the U.S. Government to terminate or reduce the amount of work at any time. Other The business activities of our Other segment include the operations of our recently acquired Air Serv business as described below. Air Serv provides facility solutions services to clients in our aviation vertical related to passenger assistance, including wheelchair operations, aircraft cabin cleaning, janitorial services, shuttle bus operations, and access control, among others. Air Serv operates in 26 states and the United Kingdom. Two significant clients, with approximately 90 contracts, provided 45.3% of revenues for this segment in 2013. The majority of contracts are structured as long-term contracts that average approximately three to five years in duration. These arrangements include “fixed-price” arrangements, “transaction-price” arrangements, and “hourly” arrangements. Fixed-price arrangements are contracts in which the client agrees to pay a fixed fee every month over a specified contract term. Transaction-price arrangements are agreements in which the clients are billed for each transaction performed on a monthly basis (i.e. wheelchair passengers served, aircrafts cleaned). Some contracts include both a fixed fee component and a variable pricing component. Hourly arrangements are contracts in which the client is billed a set hourly rate for each labor hour provided. This segment has hundreds of contracts, most of which are under master agreements with several clients and are typically competitively re-bid upon renewal. These contracts, which typically cover a single service type at a single location but may also cover multiple service types and multiple locations, are subject to termination by the client upon 30 to 90 days’ written notice. Trademarks We believe that we own or are licensed to use all corporate names, trade names, trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, and trade secrets that are material to our operations. Dependence on Significant Client No client accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues during any of the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012, or 2011. 5 Table of Contents Competition We believe that each aspect of our business is highly competitive and that competition is based primarily on price, quality of service, and ability to anticipate and respond to industry changes. A majority of our revenues are derived from projects requiring competitive bids; however, an invitation to bid is often conditioned upon prior experience, industry expertise, and financial strength. The low cost of entry in the facility services business results in a very competitive market. We experience competition from a large number of mostly regional and local owner-operated companies that may have better visibility to local markets and significantly lower labor and overhead costs, providing them with a competitive advantage. The competitive environment for each of our businesses is described below. Janitorial Our janitorial business competes with local, regional, and national providers. On a national basis, we compete with the operating divisions of a few large, diversified facility services companies. We also compete indirectly with building owners and tenants who can perform internally one or more of the services we provide. These building owners and tenants have an increased advantage in locations where our services are subject to sales tax and internal operations are not. Competitors of our janitorial business include Able Services, GCA Services Group, Inc., Harvard Maintenance, ISS Facility Services, Inc., and UNICCO Service Company. Facility Services Competition related to our Facility Services segment is based on technical expertise, price, and quality of service. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel depends on workforce availability and our ability to successfully compete for persons having the necessary skills and experience. On a national basis, we compete with the operating divisions of many large, diversified facility services companies. Competitors of our Facility Services business include Able Services, Aramark Corporation, Johnson Controls, Inc., and UNICCO Service Company. Parking Our parking business competes with local, regional, and national parking management companies. On a national basis, we compete with a small number of parking management companies, including LAZ Parking, LLC and Standard Parking Corporation. We compete directly with many local and regional parking companies. We also compete indirectly with hotels, municipalities, and other entities that manage their own parking facilities, potentially eliminating those facilities as management or lease opportunities for us. Additionally, the construction of new parking facilities near our existing facilities can adversely affect our business. We also face significant competition in our efforts to provide ancillary services such as shuttle transportation services and parking enforcement because several large companies specialize in these services. Security Competition related to our security business is based on our ability to recruit and train qualified personnel, price, and quality of service. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel depends on workforce availability and our ability to successfully compete for persons having the necessary skills and experience. On a national basis, we compete with larger companies that also offer a range of security and investigative services that are directly competitive with the services we offer. Competitors of our security business include AlliedBarton Security Services, LLC, G4S Secure Solutions, Inc., Guardsmark, LLC, and Securitas Security Services USA, Inc. Building & Energy Solutions Competition related to our Building & Energy Solutions segment is based on technical expertise, the availability of qualified personnel and managers, service innovation, reputation, past contract performance, industry experience, customer relationships, geographic reach, mobility, price, and quality of service. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel depends on workforce availability and our ability to successfully compete for persons having the necessary skills and experience. On a national basis, we compete with the operating divisions of many large, diversified facility services companies. We also compete against smaller, more specialized companies that concentrate their resources on particular geographic areas. We face intense competition for available U.S. Government business. Current trends in the U.S. Government contracting process, which include fewer sole source awards, more emphasis on cost competitiveness, and increased set-aside awards for small and/or disadvantaged businesses have increased competition for U.S. Government contracts and increased pricing pressure. The U.S. Government’s increased use of set-aside awards makes it advantageous for us to increase the percentage of business we pursue through strategic joint ventures. 6 Table of Contents Within our healthcare support services business, we face significant competition from several large, global competitors as well as hospitals and health systems providing their own services “in house.” Healthcare reform brought on by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is changing the marketplace and may result in increased competition. This has the combined effect of compressing margins on existing business while increasing demand for outsourced services in general. Competitors of our Building & Energy Solutions business include Aramark Corporation, Comfort Systems USA, Inc., Dyncorp International, LLC, Emcor Group, Inc., IAP Worldwide Services, Inc., J&J Maintenance, Inc., Johnson Controls, Inc., and Siemens Building Technologies. Other Competition related to the Air Serv business is based on reputation, expertise, price, and quality of service. We experience competition on a local, regional, national, and international basis with a large and diverse set of aviation services companies. We also compete indirectly with airlines that manage their own aviation services on an “insourced basis,” as that eliminates those operations as opportunities for us. Competitors of our Air Serv business include Aviation Safeguards, G2 Secure Staff, LLC, G4S plc, ISS Facility Services, Inc., Menzies Aviation, PLC, Mitie Group, PLC, OCS Group Limited, PrimeFlight Aviation Services, Prospect Aviation Corporation, and Swissport International, LTD. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing efforts are conducted by our corporate, subsidiary, regional, branch, and district offices. Sales, marketing, management, and operations personnel in each of these offices participate directly in selling to and servicing clients. The broad geographic coverage of these offices enables us to provide a full range of facility solutions through intra-company sales referrals, multi-service “bundled” sales, and national account sales. In fiscal 2013, we made significant progress toward completing the rebranding initiative that began in fiscal 2012 and illustrates our transformation through strategic acquisitions and organic development. This transformation has brought us into new markets and expanded our expertise and end-to-end service capabilities. Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance Our operations are subject to various federal, state, and/or local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, such as discharge into soil, water, and air, and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, and disposal of waste and hazardous substances. These laws generally have the effect of increasing costs and potential liabilities associated with the conduct of our operations. In addition, from time to time we are involved in environmental matters at certain of our locations or in connection with our operations. Historically, the cost of complying with environmental laws or resolving environmental issues relating to United States locations or operations has not had a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. We do not believe that the resolution of matters known at this time will be material. Employees As of October 31, 2013, we employed approximately 110,000 employees. Approximately 47,000 of these employees are covered under collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 7,000 of our employees have executive, managerial, supervisory, administrative, professional, sales, marketing, office, or clerical responsibilities. Available Information We are required to file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 7 Table of Contents Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are also available free of charge on our Internet site at www.abm.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. We provide references to our website for your convenience, but our website does not constitute, and should not be viewed as, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the SEC. 8 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Operations Risks relating to our acquisition strategy may adversely impact our results of operations. A significant portion of our historic growth has been generated by acquisitions and we expect to continue to acquire businesses in the future as part of our growth strategy. A slowdown in the pace of our acquisitions could lead to a slower growth rate. There can be no assurance that any acquisition we make in the future will provide us with the benefits that we anticipate when entering into the transaction. Among the benefits we may expect from potential as well as completed acquisitions are synergies, cost savings, growth opportunities, including increased profitability, or access to new markets or geographic locations. The process of integrating an acquired business may create unforeseen difficulties and expenses. The areas in which we may face risks in connection with any potential acquisitions of a business include, but are not limited to: • management time and focus may be diverted from operating our business to acquisition integration; • clients or key employees of acquired businesses may not remain, which could negatively impact our ability to grow the acquired business; • we may fail to integrate the acquired business’s accounting, information technology, human resources, and other administrative systems to permit effective management and expense reduction; • we may fail to implement or improve internal controls, procedures, and policies appropriate for a public company at a business that prior to the acquisition lacked some of these controls, procedures, and policies; • we may incur additional indebtedness as a result of an acquisition, which could impact our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows; and • we may encounter unanticipated or unknown liabilities relating to the acquired business. Our strategy of moving to an integrated facility solutions provider platform, which focuses on vertical market strategy, may not generate the organic growth in revenues or profitability that we expect. We believe that an integrated facility solutions approach will result in organic growth, increased profitability, and significant benefits to us and our clients. These benefits include enhanced service quality, contract simplicity and flexibility, and improved innovations in the delivery of services. Our organic growth strategy depends on our ability to procure contracts and on current and future trends across both the private and public sectors to outsource facility services. The procurement of contracts is difficult in markets characterized by commodity driven purchasing decisions, which may generate lower levels of profitability. In addition, we may not be able to execute on this strategy as a result of, among other things, client resistance to an integrated approach, the challenges of our vertical marketing strategy, difficulty in penetrating certain markets, inability to deliver end-to-end services requested, inability to acquire vertical market expertise, competition from integrated facility solutions providers, as well as increased competition from single service providers or module providers. Any organizational change relating to this strategy may give rise to additional costs. We are subject to intense competition that can constrain our ability to gain business as well as our profitability. We believe that each aspect of our business is highly competitive and that such competition is based primarily on price, quality of service, and ability to anticipate and respond to industry changes. A majority of our revenues are derived from projects requiring competitive bids; however, an invitation to bid is often conditioned upon prior experience, industry expertise, and financial strength. The low cost of entry in the facility services business results in a very competitive market. We experience competition from a large number of mostly regional and local owner-operated companies that may have better visibility to local markets and significantly lower labor and overhead costs, providing them with a competitive advantage. These strong competitive pressures could inhibit our success in bidding for profitable business and our ability to increase prices as costs rise, thereby reducing margins. Increases in costs that we cannot pass on to clients could affect our profitability. We negotiate many contracts under which our clients agree to pay certain costs at specified rates, including those related to workers’ compensation, other insurance where we self-insure much of our risk, salary and salary-related expenses, and petroleum. If actual costs exceed the rates specified in the contracts, our profitability may decline unless we can negotiate increases in these rates. In addition, if our costs exceed those of our competitors, we may lose existing business unless we reduce our rates to levels that may not fully cover our costs. 9 Table of Contents Our restructuring initiatives may not achieve the expected cost reductions. Effective in the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we began to realign our operations into an onsite, mobile, and on-demand market-based structure. This realignment will continue through fiscal 2014 and is designed to improve our long-term growth prospects and provide higher margin opportunities by giving us the ability to better deliver comprehensive services to clients located in urban, suburban, and rural areas. In addition, these realignment initiatives are designed to result in greater synergies from our acquisitions, achieve further integration among our onsite businesses, and decrease operating expenses by streamlining functions and reducing organizational layers. Our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these initiatives within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive, and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. We have incurred in fiscal 2013, and will continue to incur in the near term, restructuring charges as a result of these activities. Failure to achieve the expected cost reductions related to these restructuring initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have high deductibles for certain insurable risks, and therefore we are subject to volatility associated with those risks. We use a combination of insured and self-insurance programs to provide for a number of risks, including workers’ compensation, general liability, automobile liability, property damage, professional liability, and certain employee-related health care benefits plans. We are responsible for claims both within and in excess of our retained limits under our insurance policies, and while we endeavor to purchase insurance coverage that is appropriate to our assessment of risk, we are unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature, or magnitude of claims for direct or consequential damages. Our business may be negatively affected if in the future our insurance proves to be inadequate or unavailable. We attempt to mitigate these risks through the implementation of company-wide safety and loss control efforts designed to decrease the incidence of events that might increase our liability. These loss control efforts also include fostering a climate of safety awareness, proactive pre-job hazard assessments, and the dissemination of safety training materials and other employee engagement tools. Should we be unable to renew our excess, umbrella, or other commercial insurance policies at competitive rates, it would have a material adverse impact on our business, as would the incurrence of catastrophic uninsured claims or the inability or refusal of our insurance carriers to pay otherwise insured claims. Further, to the extent that we self-insure our losses, deterioration in our loss control and/or continuing claim management efforts could increase the overall cost of claims within our retained limits. A material change in our insurance costs due to changes in the frequency of claims, the severity of the claims, the costs of excess/umbrella premiums, or regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Although we engage third-party experts to assist us in estimating appropriate insurance accounting reserves, the determination of the required reserves is dependent upon significant actuarial judgments that have a material impact on our reserves. For example, quantitative assessments of the impact of recently enacted legislation and regulations and/or court rulings require both quantitative and qualitative actuarial judgments, which are updated as actual experience becomes available. Changes in our insurance reserves as a result of our periodic evaluations of the related liabilities may cause significant volatility in our operating results that might not be indicative of the operations of our ongoing business. We are at risk of losses stemming from any accident or other incident involving our airport operations. We provide services in support of commercial aviation at airports in the United States and the United Kingdom. Our operations involve passenger assistance, such as wheelchair operations, aircraft cabin cleaning, janitorial services, shuttle bus operations, and access control, among others. An accident or other incident involving our aviation support services could expose us to significant liability. If the insurance we carry to cover damages relating to future accidents or other incidents involving our airport operations is not adequate, we may be exposed to substantial losses arising from such accident or other incident. Our business success depends on our ability to preserve our long-term relationships with clients. We primarily provide our services pursuant to agreements that are cancelable by either party upon 30 to 90 days’ notice, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Our business associated with long-term relationships is generally more profitable than that associated with short-term relationships because we generally incur higher initial costs on new contracts. 10 Table of Contents Once these costs are expensed or fully amortized over the appropriate periods, the underlying contracts become more profitable. Our loss of long-term clients could have an adverse impact on our profitability even if we generate equivalent revenues from new clients. In addition, our clients can unilaterally decrease the amount of services we provide or terminate all services pursuant to the terms of our service agreements. Any loss of a significant number of clients could in the aggregate materially adversely affect our results of operations. We are at risk of losses stemming from damage to our reputation. Any damage to our reputation may adversely affect our results of operations. We depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for quality integrated facility services. Our clients’ expectations and perception of the quality of our services are in large part determined by the satisfaction they derive from contact with our managers. The areas in which we may face risks in connection with damage to our reputation include, but are not limited to: • Adverse publicity stemming from an accident or other incident involving our facility operations could result in a negative perception of our services and the loss of existing or potential clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations; • Although substantially all of our operations are conducted in the United States, failure by our employees, representatives, or agents, as well as by our joint venture partners, to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and similar laws in other foreign jurisdictions could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities and could result in suspension or debarment from government contracts; • Any improper actions by our joint venture employees, partners, or agents could result in civil or criminal investigations, monetary and non-monetary penalties, suspension or debarment from government contracts, and could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows as well as our reputation and ability to conduct business; • We must comply with complex laws and regulations relating to the award, administration, and performance of U.S. Government contracts and a violation of these laws and regulations could harm our reputation and result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts with the U.S. Government, or debarment from government contracts; and • Compliance with more stringent immigration reform laws or regulations, as well as more vigorous enforcement policies of the regulatory agencies, could negatively impact our reputation. Our business success depends on retaining senior management and attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Our future performance depends on the continuing services and contributions of our senior management to execute on our acquisition and organic growth strategy and to identify and pursue new opportunities. Our future success also depends, in large degree, on our continued ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Any unplanned turnover in senior management or inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could have a negative effect on our results of operations. Significant delays or reductions in appropriations for our government contracts may negatively affect our business and could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. The funding of U.S. Government programs are subject to annual congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. In many situations, Congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though the contract performance period may extend over several fiscal years. Accordingly, programs are often partially funded and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. If we incur costs in excess of funds committed on a contract, we may not receive reimbursement of those costs unless additional funds are appropriated. In the event that government funding for any of the programs relating to our U.S. Government contracts is reduced or delayed, the U.S. Government could terminate or adjust our contracts or subcontracts under such program, which could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents We conduct some of our operations through joint ventures, and our ability to do business may be affected by the failure of our joint venture partners to perform their obligations. The success of our joint ventures depends, in large degree, on the satisfactory performance by our joint venture partners of their obligations, including any obligation to commit capital, equity, or credit support as required by the joint venture agreements. If a joint venture partner fails to perform its obligations as a result of financial or other difficulties or any other reason, the joint venture may be unable to perform or deliver its contracted services. In addition, we also participate in joint ventures where we are not a controlling party, and in these cases, we may have limited control over the joint venture. Our services in areas of military conflict expose us to additional risks. Although substantially all of our operations are conducted in the United States, the services we provide internationally, including through the use of subcontractors, are sometimes in areas of military conflict or at military installations, which increases the risk of a situation causing injury or loss of life to our employees, subcontractors, or other third parties. In addition to the human costs, this could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows and our ability to conduct business. Negative or unexpected tax consequences could adversely affect our results of operations. Adverse changes in the underlying profitability and financial outlook of our operations could lead to changes in our valuation allowances against deferred tax assets on our consolidated balance sheet, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, changes in tax laws in the United States where we have significant operations could have an adverse effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets and results of operations. We are also subject to tax audits by governmental authorities in the United States. Negative unexpected results from one or more such tax audits could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are subject to business continuity risks associated with centralization of certain administrative functions. Certain administrative functions, primarily in North America, have been regionally centralized to improve efficiency and reduce costs. To the extent that these central locations are disrupted or disabled for a long period of time due to crisis, natural disaster or other business interruption, key business processes, such as accounts payable, information technology, payroll, and general management operations, could be interrupted. We are subject to cyber-security risks arising out of breaches of security relating to sensitive company, client, and employee information, as well as relating to the technology that manages our operations and other business processes. Our business operations rely upon secure information technology systems for data capture, processing, storage, and reporting. Notwithstanding careful security and controls design, our information technology systems and those of our third-party providers could become subject to cyber attacks. Network, system, application, and data breaches could result in operational disruptions or information misappropriation, including, but not limited to, interruptions to systems availability and denial of access to and misuse of applications required by our clients to conduct business with us. Theft of intellectual property or trade secrets, and inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, could stem from such incidents. Any such operational disruption and/or misappropriation of information could result in lost sales, negative publicity, or business delays and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We could incur additional costs to cover guarantees. In some instances, we offer clients guaranteed energy savings on installed equipment. In the event those guaranteed savings are not achieved, we may be required to pay liquidated or other damages. Risks Related to Market and Economic Conditions A decline in commercial office building occupancy and rental rates could affect our revenues and profitability. Our revenues are affected by commercial real estate occupancy levels. In certain geographic areas and service lines, our most profitable revenues are known as tag work. These services are performed for tenants in buildings in which we perform building services for the property owner or management company. A decline in occupancy rates could result in a decline in scope of work, including tag work, and depressed prices for our services. If this were to occur, we could experience lower revenues and pricing pressures resulting in lower margins. Additionally, adverse changes in occupancy rates may further reduce demand, depress prices for our services, and cause our clients to cancel their service agreements with us. This could reduce earnings and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, in those areas where our workers are unionized, decreases in revenues can be accompanied by relative increases in labor costs if we are obligated by collective bargaining agreements to retain workers with seniority and are unable to pass these costs to our clients. 12 Table of Contents Deterioration in general economic conditions could reduce the demand for facility services and, as a result, reduce our earnings and adversely affect our financial condition. Slow domestic and international economic growth or other negative changes in global, national, and local economic conditions could have a negative impact on our business. Specifically, adverse economic conditions may result in clients cutting back on discretionary spending, such as tag work. Additionally, since a significant portion of our aviation services and parking revenues are tied to the number of airline passengers, hotel guests, and sports arenas attendees, results for these businesses could be adversely affected by curtailment of business or personal travel and cutbacks in discretionary spending. Changes in energy prices and government regulations could adversely impact the results of operations of our Building & Energy Solutions business. Energy efficiency projects are designed to reduce the client’s overall consumption of commodities such as electricity and natural gas. The economic benefit to the client is impacted by volatility in the price of those commodities. Downward fluctuations in commodity prices may reduce clients’ demand for our services. This could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We depend, in part, on federal and state legislation and policies that support energy efficiency projects. If current legislation or policies are adversely amended, eliminated, or not extended beyond their current expiration dates, or if funding for energy incentives is reduced or delayed, it could adversely affect our ability to obtain new business and thereby have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Financial difficulties or bankruptcy of one or more of our clients could adversely affect our results. Future revenues and our ability to collect accounts receivable depend, in part, on the financial strength of our clients. Any tightening of credit in financial markets may adversely affect the ability of our clients to obtain financing and impact our ability to collect amounts due from such clients. In addition, this could result in a decrease, or cancellation, of our services under our client contracts. In connection with these risks, we estimate an allowance for accounts receivable that we do not consider collectible. This allowance adversely impacts our profitability. In the event clients experience financial difficulty and, in particular, if bankruptcy results, our profitability could be further impacted by a failure to collect accounts receivable in excess of the estimated allowance. Declines in our ability to collect receivables or in the level of client spending could adversely affect our results of operations and our liquidity. Future declines in the fair value of our investments in auction rate securities could negatively impact our earnings. Future declines in the fair value of our investments in auction rate securities that we consider temporary will be recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of taxes. We have experienced declines in the fair value of our investments in auction rate securities that we have determined to be other-than-temporary. If at any time in the future we determine that a further decline in fair value is other-than-temporary, we will record a charge to earnings for the credit loss portion of the impairment. In addition, estimated credit losses based on significant assumptions may be different than actual realized losses, which could impact our earnings. We incur accounting and other control costs that reduce profitability. As a publicly traded corporation, we incur certain costs to comply with regulatory requirements. If regulatory requirements were to become more stringent or if accounting or other controls thought to be effective later fail, we may be forced to make additional expenditures, the amounts of which could be material. Most of our competitors are privately owned, so our accounting and control costs can be a competitive disadvantage. 13 Table of Contents Sequestration under the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the “Budget Control Act”) may negatively impact our business. The Budget Control Act has resulted in substantial reductions in defense and discretionary spending by the U.S. Government. Spending caps and reductions, referred to as sequestration, went into effect on March 3, 2013. We expect the sequestration process as mandated by the Budget Control Act to continue. The automatic across-the-board sequestration cuts as well as the reductions already reflected in defense funding over a ten-year period could have significant consequences to our government business and the industry. On October 16, 2013, the House and Senate approved H.R. 2775, the Continuing Appropriations Act of 2014. Under the so-called continuing resolution, the federal government was reopened, after being closed since October 1, 2013. The resolution also funds government operations through January 15, 2014 and suspends the debt limit through February 7, 2014. If additional appropriations are not made after the funds available under the Continuing Appropriations Act of 2014 end, then another government shutdown may occur. If this happens, performance on our existing contracts may be affected by, among other things, the lack of government personnel for contract administration or by the shuttering of non-essential government facilities. Furthermore, without appropriations there are generally no additional funds made available for the award of new contracts or the obligations to fund existing contracts by, for example, issuing task orders. We are continuously reviewing our operations in an attempt to identify those programs that could be at risk so that we can make appropriate contingency plans. While we are already experiencing reduced funding on some of our programs and may see further reductions, we do not expect the cancellation of any of our major programs. Risks Relating to Indebtedness and Impairment Charges Any future increase in the level of our debt or in interest rates could affect our results of operations. Any future increase in the level of our debt will likely increase our interest expense. Unless the operating income associated with the use of these funds exceeds the debt expense, borrowing money will have an adverse impact on our results. In addition, incurring debt requires that a portion of cash flow from operating activities be dedicated to interest payments and principal payments. Debt service requirements could reduce our ability to use our cash flow to fund operations and capital expenditures or to capitalize on future business opportunities, including additional acquisitions. Because current interest rates on our debt are variable, an increase in prevailing rates would increase our interest costs. Further, our credit facility agreement contains both financial covenants and other covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified transactions, which may also constrain our flexibility. Our ability to operate and pay our debt obligations depends upon our access to cash. Because we conduct business operations through operating subsidiaries, we depend on those entities to generate the funds necessary to meet financial obligations. Delays in collections, which could be heightened by disruption in the credit markets and the financial services industry, or legal restrictions could restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or loans to us. The earnings from, or available assets of, these operating subsidiaries may not be sufficient to fund operations. If this were to occur, we would be unable to make distributions to pay interest on our debt obligations when due or to pay the principal of such debt. In addition, we have standby letters of credit and insurance deposits that represent amounts collateralizing self-insurance claims that we cannot access for operations. Moreover, $15.0 million original principal amount of our investment portfolio is invested in auction rate securities that are not actively traded. In the event we need to liquidate our auction rate securities prior to a successful auction, our expected holding period, or their scheduled maturity, we might not be able to do so without realizing further losses. In addition, the United States and global economies continue to experience slow growth, and the financial and credit markets could return to significant declines that could diminish liquidity and credit availability. Any such diminishment may have a material adverse effect on our operations and our costs of borrowing. Goodwill impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Goodwill represents the excess purchase price of acquired businesses over the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. We have elected to make the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter, August 1st, the annual impairment assessment date for goodwill. However, we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to the required annual assessment if we experience a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, or sale or disposition of a significant portion of one of our businesses. If the fair value of one of our businesses is less than its carrying amount, we could be required to record an impairment charge. The valuation of the businesses requires judgment in evaluating, among other things, recent indications of market activity and estimates of future cash flows, discount rates, and other factors. In making these judgments, we evaluate the financial health of our business, including such factors as market performance, changes in our client base, and operating cash flows. The amount of any impairment could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. 14 Table of Contents Impairment of long-lived assets may adversely affect our operating results. We review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. These events and circumstances include, but are not limited to, a current expectation that a long-lived asset will be disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life, a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which we use a long-lived asset, or a change in its physical condition. When such events or changes in circumstances occur, a recoverability test is performed comparing projected undiscounted cash flows from the use and eventual disposition of an asset or asset group to its carrying amount. If the projected undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying amount, an impairment is recorded for the excess of the carrying amount over the estimated fair value, which is generally determined using discounted future cash flows. The amount of any impairment could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. Risks Related to Labor and Legal Proceedings We are defendants in class and representative actions and other lawsuits alleging various claims that could cause us to incur substantial liabilities. Our business involves employing tens of thousands of employees, many of whom work at our clients’ facilities. We incur risks relating to our employment of these workers, including, but not limited to: claims of misconduct or negligence on the part of our employees; claims by our employees of discrimination or harassment directed at them, including claims relating to actions of our clients; claims related to the employment of undocumented workers or unlicensed personnel; and claims for violations of wage and hour requirements. Some or all of these claims may lead to litigation, including class action litigation, and these matters may cause us to incur negative publicity with respect to these problems. Our insurance will not cover all claims that may be asserted against us. In addition, it is not possible to predict the outcome of these lawsuits or any other proceeding to which we may be subject. These lawsuits and other proceedings may consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the lawsuits and other proceedings. In addition, we may become subject to similar lawsuits in the same or other jurisdictions. An unfavorable outcome with respect to these lawsuits and any future lawsuits could, individually or in the aggregate, cause us to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon our business, reputation, financial condition, or results of operations. We discuss certain cases to which we are party in greater detail in “Item 3., “Legal Proceedings,” and Note 12, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Federal health care reform legislation may adversely affect our business and results of operations. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law in the United States (collectively, the “Health Care Reform Laws”). The Health Care Reform Laws include a large number of health-related provisions, including requiring most individuals to have health insurance and establishing new regulations on health plans. Although the Health Care Reform Laws do not mandate that employers offer health insurance, beginning in 2015, penalties will be assessed on large employers who do not offer health insurance that meets certain affordability or benefit requirements. Providing such additional health insurance benefits to our employees, or the payment of penalties if such coverage is not provided, would increase our expense. If we are unable to raise the rates we charge our clients to cover this expense, such increases in expense could reduce our operating profit. In addition, under the Health Care Reform Laws, employers will have to file a significant amount of additional information with the Internal Revenue Service. These and other requirements related to compliance under the Health Care Reform Laws could result in increased costs, expanded liability exposure, and other changes in the ways we provide healthcare and other benefits to our employees. Changes in immigration laws or enforcement actions or investigations under such laws could significantly adversely affect our labor force, operations, and financial results. As many of our jobs do not require our employees to be able to read or write the English language, we are an attractive employer for recent émigrés to this country. While immigration laws require us to take certain steps intended to confirm the legal status of our immigrant labor force and while we reinforce these steps with additional measures desires to reinforce compliance, we may nonetheless inadvertently employ workers who are or become undocumented. Violations of laws and regulations could subject us to substantial fines and penalties. To the extent that these laws and regulations and corresponding enforcement practices and compliance standards become more stringent, our payroll expenses could be negatively impacted. 15 Table of Contents Labor disputes could lead to loss of revenues or expense variations. At October 31, 2013, approximately 43% of our employees were subject to various local collective bargaining agreements, some of which will expire or become subject to renegotiation during the year. In addition, at any given time we may face a number of union organizing drives. When one or more of our major collective bargaining agreements becomes subject to renegotiation or when we face union organizing drives, we and the union may disagree on important issues that could lead to a strike, work slowdown, or other job actions at one or more of our locations. In a market where we and a number of major competitors are unionized, but other competitors are not unionized, we could lose clients to competitors who are not unionized. A strike, work slowdown, or other job action could in some cases disrupt us from providing services, resulting in reduced revenues. If declines in client service occur or if our clients are targeted for sympathy strikes by other unionized workers, contract cancellations could result. Moreover, negotiating a first time agreement or renegotiating an existing collective bargaining agreement could result in a substantial increase in labor and benefits expenses that we may be unable to pass through to clients. We participate in multiemployer pension plans that under certain circumstances could result in material liabilities being incurred. We participate in various multiemployer pension plans under union and industry-wide agreements that generally provide defined pension benefits to employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Because of the nature of multiemployer plans, there are risks associated with participation in these plans that differ from single-employer plans. Assets contributed by an employer to a multiemployer plan are not segregated into a separate account and are not restricted to provide benefits only to employees of that contributing employer. In the event another participating employer to a multiemployer plan no longer contributes to the plan, the unfunded obligations of the plan may be borne by the remaining participating employers, including us. In the event of the termination of a multiemployer pension plan or if we withdraw from a multiemployer pension plan, under applicable law we potentially could incur material liabilities. We further discuss our participation in multiemployer pension and postretirement plans in Note 11, “Employee Benefit Plans,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Natural disasters or acts of terrorism could disrupt services. Storms, earthquakes, drought, floods, or other natural disasters or acts of terrorism may result in reduced revenues or property damage. Disasters may also cause economic dislocations throughout the country. In addition, natural disasters or acts of terrorism may increase the volatility of financial results, either due to increased costs caused by the disaster with partial or no corresponding compensation from clients or, alternatively, increased revenues and profitability related to tag jobs, special projects, and other higher margin work necessitated by the disaster. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 16 Table of Contents 