ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Acquisitions may divert our focus and lead to unexpected difficulties. A significant portion of our historic growth has come through acquisitions and we expect to continue to acquire businesses in the future as part of our growth strategy. A slowdown in acquisitions could lead to a slower growth rate. Because new contracts frequently involve start-up costs, revenues associated with acquired operations generally have higher margins than new revenues associated with internal growth. Therefore a slowdown in acquisition activity could lead to constant or lower margins, as well as lower revenue growth. There can be no assurance that any acquisition that we make in the future will provide us with the benefits that were anticipated when entering the transaction. The process of integrating an acquired business may create unforeseen difficulties and expenses. The areas in which we may face risks include: • Diversion of management time and focus from operating the business to acquisition integration; • The need to implement or improve internal controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company at businesses that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies; • The need to integrate acquired businesses’ accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems to permit effective management; • Inability to retain employees from businesses the Company acquires; • Inability to maintain relationships with customers of the acquired business; • Write-offs or impairment charges relating to goodwill and other intangible assets from acquisitions; and • Unanticipated or unknown liabilities relating to acquired businesses. Our transition to new information technology systems may result in functional delays and resource constraints. Although we use centralized accounting systems, we rely on a number of legacy information technology systems, particularly our payroll systems, as well as manual processes, to operate. These systems and processes may be unable to provide adequate support for the business and create excessive reliance upon manual rather than system controls. Use of the legacy payroll systems could result, for instance, in delays in meeting payroll obligations, in difficulty calculating and tracking appropriate governmental withholding and other payroll regulatory obligations, and in higher internal and external expenses to work around these systems. Additionally, the current technology environment is unable to support the integration of acquired businesses and anticipated organic growth. Effective October 2006, we entered into a Master Professional Services Agreement with International Business Machines Corporation (“IBM”) to obtain information technology infrastructure and support services. In light of a recent evaluation of these services, we determined that the Company will likely transition one or more services away from IBM. We are considering various alternatives to the current arrangement with IBM under the Master Professional Services Agreement. Ultimately, we may use a different third party provider or use ABM employees to provide some or all of the services currently provided by IBM under the Master Professional Services Agreement. Any alternative arrangement involves potential failure of current projects which are under development relating to our information technology platforms and systems. In addition to the risk of potential failure in each project, supporting multiple concurrent projects, and moving away from IBM as a provider of one or more of these services may result in resource constraints and the inability to complete projects on schedule. The acquisition of OneSource necessitates information technology system integration and consolidation. We are continuing to use the OneSource information technology systems during the transition period and will then transfer OneSource operations to our new payroll and human resources information system and the upgraded accounting systems. To the extent that we continue to use IBM or other third-parties for various services, the risks associated with outsourcing include the dependence upon a third party for essential aspects of our business and risks to the security and integrity of our data in the hands of third parties. We may also have potentially less control over costs associated with necessary systems when they are supported by a third party, as well as potentially less responsiveness from vendors than employees. Transition to a Shared Services Function could create disruption in functions affected. We have historically performed accounting functions, such as accounts payable, accounts receivable payment applications and payroll, in a decentralized manner through regional accounting centers in our businesses. In 2007, we began consolidating these functions in a shared services center in Houston, Texas, and in 2008, an 8 Table of Contents additional facility in Atlanta, Georgia. The consolidation has taken place in certain accounting functions for Janitorial (including OneSource), Security, Engineering and the Corporate office, and over the next few years other functions and additional business units will be moved into the shared services centers. The timing of the consolidation of different functions is tied to the upgrade of the Company’s accounting system, the introduction of ancillary software and implementation of a new payroll system and human resources information system. In addition to the risks associated with technology changes, the shared services centers implementation could lead to the turnover of personnel with critical knowledge about our customers and employees. As a result, our processes relating to accounts receivable and payroll might be impaired. Because the consolidation of functions in the shared services centers is tied to the upgrade of our accounting systems and implementation of a new payroll system and human resources information system, delays in the implementation of the technology changes would lead to delays in our ability to realize the benefits associated with the shared services centers. The move of our corporate headquarters has led to loss of personnel and institutional knowledge, and may disrupt the continuity of control functions. In January 2008, we began to move our corporate headquarters to New York City from San Francisco. Although substantially complete, the transition will continue over the next 12 months. In addition, certain functions that have operated centrally from corporate headquarters, such as the finance and legal organizations, have been dispersed in a combination of corporate headquarters, division headquarters and the shared services function. These moves have caused employee turnover, particularly in finance, legal, insurance, and human resources. The loss of personnel could lead to disruptions in control functions stemming from delays in filling vacant positions and a lack of personnel with institutional knowledge. The sale of ABM’s Lighting division could impact our ability to collect accounts receivables. We may not realize anticipated amounts related to retained accounts receivable of the Lighting division due to the sale of substantially all of the operating assets of the Lighting division. Furthermore, it is possible that Sylvania Lighting Services’ operation of our former Lighting division may make collection of our outstanding Lighting accounts receivable more difficult. A change in the frequency or severity of claims, a deterioration in claims management, the cancellation or non-renewal of primary insurance policies or a change in our customers’ insurance needs could adversely affect results. Many customers, particularly institutional owners and large property management companies, prefer to do business with contractors, such as us, with significant financial resources, who can provide substantial insurance coverage. In fact, many of our clients choose to obtain insurance coverage for the risks associated with our services by being named as additional insureds under our master liability insurance policies and by seeking contractual indemnification for any damages associated with our services. In addition, pursuant to our management and service contracts, we charge certain clients an allocated portion of our insurance-related costs, including workers’ compensation insurance, at rates that, because of the scale of our operations and claims experience, we believe are competitive. A material change in insurance costs due to a change in the number of claims, costs or premiums could have a material effect on our operating profit. In addition, should we be unable to renew our umbrella and other commercial insurance policies at competitive rates, it would have an adverse impact on our business, as would catastrophic uninsured claims or the inability or refusal of our insurance carriers to pay otherwise insured claims. Furthermore, where we self-insure, a deterioration in claims management, whether by us or by a third party claims administrator, could increase claim costs, particularly in the workers’ compensation area. A change in estimated claims costs could affect results. We periodically evaluate estimated claims costs and liabilities to ensure that self-insurance reserves are appropriate. Additionally, we monitor new claims and claims development to assess the adequacy of insurance reserves. Trend analysis is complex and highly subjective. The interpretation of trends requires the knowledge of all factors affecting the trends that may or may not be reflective of adverse developments (e.g., changes in regulatory requirements). If the trends suggest that the frequency or severity of claims incurred has increased, we might be required to record additional expenses for self-insurance liabilities. In addition, variations in estimates that cause changes in our insurance reserves may not always be related to changes in claims experience. Changes in insurance reserves as a result of our periodic evaluations of the liabilities can cause swings in operating results that may not be indicative of the operations of our ongoing business. In addition, because of the time required for the analysis, 9 Table of Contents we may not learn of a deterioration in claims, particularly claims administered by a third party, until additional costs have been incurred or are projected. Because we base pricing in part on our estimated insurance costs, our prices could be higher or lower than they otherwise might be if better information were available resulting in a competitive disadvantage in the former case and reduced margins or unprofitable contracts in the latter. Any future increase in the level of debt or in interest rates, can affect our results of operations. We incurred debt to acquire OneSource and Southern Management, and any future increase in the level of debt will likely increase our interest expense. Unless the operating income associated with the use of these funds exceeds the debt expense, borrowing money will have an adverse impact on our results. In addition, incurring debt requires that a portion of cash flow from operating activities be dedicated to interest payments and principal payments. Unless cash flows generated by these or future acquisitions funded by debt exceed the required payments, debt service requirements could reduce our ability to use our cash flow to fund operations and capital expenditures, and to capitalize on future business opportunities (including additional acquisitions). Because current interest rates on our debt are variable, an increase in prevailing rates would increase our interest costs. Further, our credit facility agreement contains both financial covenants and covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified transactions, which may also constrain our flexibility. Our ability to operate and pay our debt obligations depends upon our access to cash. Because ABM conducts business operations through operating subsidiaries, we depend on those entities to generate the funds necessary to meet financial obligations. Delays in collections, which could be heightened by the current turmoil in the credit markets and the financial services industry, or legal restrictions could restrict ABM’s subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or loans to ABM. The earnings from, or other available assets of, these operating subsidiaries may not be sufficient to make distributions to enable ABM to pay interest on debt obligations when due or to pay the principal of such debt. In addition, $25.0 million original principal amount of our investment portfolio is invested in auction rate securities which are now illiquid. In the event we need to access these funds, we will not be able to do so until a future auction is successful, the issuer redeems the outstanding securities or the securities mature (between 20 and 50 years). The estimated values of these securities are no longer at par and we have booked an unrealized loss of $6.0 million. If the issuer of the securities is unable to successfully close future auctions and its credit rating deteriorates and if the insurers are not financially able to honor their obligations as insurer, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses or an impairment charge. Deterioration in economic conditions in general could further reduce the demand for facility services and, as a result, reduce our earnings and adversely affect our financial condition. Changes in national and local economic conditions could have a negative impact on our business. Adverse changes in occupancy levels may further reduce demand, depress prices for our services and cause our customers to cancel their agreements to purchase our services, thereby possibly reducing earnings and adversely affecting our business and results of operations. Additionally, the adverse economic conditions may result in customers cutting back on discretionary spending, such as tag work. In addition, a significant portion of Parking revenues is tied to the number of airline passengers and hotel guests, and Parking results could be adversely affected by curtailment of business and personal travel. A decline in commercial office building occupancy and rental rates could affect revenues and profitability. Our revenues directly depend on commercial real estate occupancy levels. In certain geographic areas and service segments, our most profitable revenues are known as tag jobs, which are services performed for tenants in buildings in which our business performs building services for the property owner or management company. A decline in occupancy rates could result in a decline in fees paid by landlords, as well as tag work, which would lower revenues, and create pricing pressures and therefore lower margins. In addition, in those areas where the workers are unionized, decreases in revenues can be accompanied by relative increases in labor costs if we are obligated by collective bargaining agreements to retain workers with seniority and consequently higher compensation levels and cannot pass through these costs to customers. Recent turmoil in the credit markets and the financial services industry may impact our ability to collect receivables on a timely basis and may negatively impact our cash flow. Recently, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, they may have a 10 Table of Contents material adverse effect on the Company and its costs of borrowing; they could also adversely impact the availability of financing to our customers and therefore our ability to collect amounts due from such customers or cause them to terminate their contracts with us completely. The financial difficulties or bankruptcy of one or more of our major customers could adversely affect results. Future revenues and our ability to collect accounts receivable depend, in part, on the financial strength of customers. We estimate an allowance for accounts we do not consider collectible and this allowance adversely impacts profitability. In the event customers experience financial difficulty, and particularly if bankruptcy results, profitability is further impacted by our failure to collect accounts receivable in excess of the estimated allowance. Additionally, our future revenues would be reduced by the loss of these customers. An impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Under SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” we are required to test acquired goodwill for impairment on an annual basis based upon a fair value approach, rather than amortizing it over time. Goodwill represents the excess of the amount we paid to acquire our subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the dates of the acquisitions. We have chosen to perform our annual impairment reviews of goodwill at the beginning of the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. We also are required to test goodwill for impairment between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of any reporting unit below its carrying amount. In addition, we test certain intangible assets for impairment annually and if events occur or circumstances change that would indicate the remaining carrying amount of these intangible assets might not be recoverable. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of one of our business, and other factors. If the fair market value of one of our businesses is less than its carrying amount, we could be required to record an impairment charge. The valuation of the businesses requires judgment in estimating future cash flows, discount rates and other factors. In making these judgments, we evaluate the financial health of our businesses, including such factors as market performance, changes in our customer base and operating cash flows. The amount of any impairment could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. In November 2007, we acquired OneSource for an aggregate purchase price of $390.5 million including payment of its $21.5 million line of credit and direct acquisition costs of $4.0 million. We paid a premium in excess of fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets of $275.0 million, which is reflected as goodwill in our Janitorial reporting unit. We were willing to pay this premium as a result of our identification of significant synergies that we anticipated we would realize, are realizing and expect to continue to realize through the acquisition. However, if we determine that we are not able to realize these expected synergies and we determine that the fair value of our Janitorial reporting unit is less than its carrying amount of these assets, then we would have to recognize an impairment to goodwill as a current-period expense. Although we have concluded that no impairment exists at August 1, 2008, because of the significant amount of goodwill recognized in connection with the OneSource acquisition, an impairment of goodwill could result in a material non-cash expense. Labor disputes could lead to loss of revenues or expense variations. At October 31, 2008, approximately 44% of our employees were subject to various local collective bargaining agreements, some of which will expire or become subject to renegotiation during the year. In addition, at any given time, we may face a number of union organizing drives. When one or more of our major collective bargaining agreements becomes subject to renegotiation or when we face union organizing drives, we and the union may disagree on important issues which, in turn, could lead to a strike, work slowdown or other job actions at one or more of our locations. In a market where we and a number of major competitors are unionized, but other competitors are not unionized, we could lose customers to competitors who are not unionized. A strike, work slowdown or other job action could in some cases disrupt us from providing services, resulting in reduced revenue. If declines in customer service occur or if our customers are targeted for sympathy strikes by other unionized workers, contract cancellations could result. The result of negotiating a first time agreement or renegotiating an existing collective bargaining agreement could be a substantial increase in labor and benefits expenses that we may be unable to pass through to customers for some period of time, if at all. In addition, proposed legislation, known as The Employee Free Choice Act, could make it significantly easier for union organizing drives to be successful and could give third-party arbitrators the ability to impose terms of collective bargaining agreements upon 11 Table of Contents us and a labor union if we and such union are unable to agree to the terms of a collective bargaining agreement. We participate in multi-employer defined benefit plans which could result in our incurrence of substantial liabilities. We contribute to multi-employer benefit plans that could result in our being responsible for unfunded liabilities under such plans which could be material. Our success depends on our ability to preserve our long-term relationships with customers. Our contracts with our customers can generally be terminated upon relatively short notice. However, the business associated with long-term relationships is generally more profitable than that from short-term relationships because we incur start-up costs with many new contracts, particularly for training, operating equipment and uniforms. Once these costs are expensed or fully depreciated over the appropriate periods, the underlying contracts become more profitable. Therefore, our loss of long-term customers could have an adverse impact on our profitability even if we generate equivalent revenues from new customers. We are subject to intense competition that can constrain our ability to gain business, as well as our profitability. We believe that each aspect of our business is highly competitive, and that such competition is based primarily on price and quality of service. We provide nearly all our services under contracts originally obtained through competitive bidding. The low cost of entry to the facility services business has led to strongly competitive markets consisting primarily of regional and local owner-operated companies, with particularly intense competition in the janitorial business in the Southeast and South Central regions of the United States. We also compete with a few large, diversified facility services and manufacturing companies on a national basis. Indirectly, we compete with building owners and tenants that can perform internally one or more of the services that we provide. These building owners and tenants have a competitive advantage in locations where our services are subject to sales tax and internal operations are not. Furthermore, competitors may have lower costs because privately owned companies operating in a limited geographic area may have significantly lower labor and overhead costs. These strong competitive pressures could impede our success in bidding for profitable business and our ability to increase prices even as costs rise, thereby reducing margins. Further, if revenues decline, we may not be able to reduce expenses correspondingly. An increase in costs that we cannot pass on to customers could affect profitability. We negotiate many contracts under which our customers agree to pay certain costs at rates that we set, particularly workers’ compensation and other insurance coverage where we self-insure much of our risk. If actual costs exceed the rates we set, then our profitability may decline unless we can negotiate increases in these rates. In addition, if our costs, particularly workers’ compensation, other insurance costs, labor costs, payroll taxes, and fuel costs, exceed those of our competitors, we may lose business unless we establish rates that do not fully cover our costs. Natural disasters or acts of terrorism could disrupt services. Storms, earthquakes, drought, floods or other natural disasters or acts of terrorism may result in reduced revenues or property damage. Disasters may also cause economic dislocations throughout the country. In addition, natural disasters or acts of terrorism may increase the volatility of financial results, either due to increased costs caused by the disaster with partial or no corresponding compensation from customers, or, alternatively, increased revenues and profitability related to tag jobs, special projects and other higher margin work necessitated by the disaster. We incur significant accounting and other control costs that reduce profitability. As a publicly traded corporation, we incur certain costs to comply with regulatory requirements. If regulatory requirements were to become more stringent or if accounting or other controls thought to be effective later fail, we may be forced to make additional expenditures, the amounts of which could be material. Most of our competitors are privately owned so our accounting and control costs can be a competitive disadvantage. Should revenues decline or if we are unsuccessful at increasing prices to cover higher expenditures for internal controls and audits, the costs associated with regulatory compliance will rise as a percentage of revenues. ABM and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several class and representative action lawsuits alleging various wage and hour claims that could cause us to incur substantial liabilities. ABM and certain subsidiaries are defendants in several class and representative action lawsuits brought by or on behalf of our current and former employees alleging violations of federal and state law with respect to certain wage and hour matters. It is not possible to predict the outcome of these lawsuits or in other litigation or arbitration to which we are subject. However, these lawsuits and other proceedings may consume substantial amounts of our 12 Table of Contents financial and managerial resources, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the lawsuits and other proceedings. In addition, ABM and its subsidiaries may become subject to similar lawsuits in the same or other jurisdictions. An unfavorable outcome with respect to these lawsuits and any future lawsuits could, individually or in the aggregate, cause the Company to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. Other issues and uncertainties may include: • New accounting pronouncements or changes in accounting policies; • Changes in federal (U.S.) or state immigration law that raise our administrative costs; • Labor shortages that adversely affect our ability to employ entry level personnel; • Legislation or other governmental action that detrimentally impacts expenses or reduces revenues by adversely affecting our customers; and • The resignation, termination, death or disability of one or more key executives that adversely affects customer retention or day-to-day management. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 