ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to our Operations Risks relating to our acquisition of Linc and our acquisition strategy may adversely impact our results of operations. On December 1, 2010, we acquired Linc, a global provider of technical building services that has significant domestic and international operations. The Linc acquisition effectively increased the Company’s engineering segment by approximately 165% when measured by revenues. Realization of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition will depend, among other things, upon our ability to timely integrate the Linc business successfully with our operations and to achieve the anticipated savings associated with reductions in offices, staffing and other costs. There can be no assurance that the acquisition of Linc or any acquisition that we make in the future will provide the benefits that were anticipated when entering into the transaction. The process of integrating an acquired business may create unforeseen difficulties and expenses. The areas in which we may face risks include: • Expected growth in revenues relating to the combination of our business with the Linc business may not be achieved as we may not be able to retain existing clients or attract new clients or generate anticipated new business; • The acquisition may divert management time and focus from operating our business to acquisition integration; • Key employees may not remain, which could negatively impact our ability to grow the acquired business; • A significant portion of Linc’s revenues are generated by government contracts and could be negatively impacted by reduced government spending on outsourced services as well as payment delays; • A portion of Linc’s revenues are generated from international operations and are subject to political risks and changes in socio-economic conditions, laws and regulations, including labor, monetary and fiscal policies, and difficulties in ensuring that foreign operations comply with foreign laws as well as U.S. laws applicable to U.S. companies with foreign operations, such as Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which could negatively impact our ability to operate and grow our business in the international arena; • The Linc acquisition significantly increases our global presence, thereby increasing our exposure to foreign currency risks and foreign exchange rate fluctuations; • The failure to integrate the acquired business’s accounting, information technology, human resources and other administrative systems to permit effective management and reduce expenses; • The failure to implement or improve internal controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company at a business that prior to the acquisition lacked some of these controls, procedures and policies; • Exposure to international economic conditions and language and cultural differences relating to the expansion of our business overseas as a result of the Linc acquisition; • Changes in tax law or interpretations of tax law in foreign jurisdictions could negatively impact future earnings; • Incurrence of additional indebtedness as a result of the Linc acquisition could impact our cash flow; and • We may encounter unanticipated or unknown liabilities relating to the acquired Linc business. Portions of our historic growth have been generated by acquisitions, and we expect to continue to acquire businesses in the future as part of our growth strategy. A slowdown in acquisitions could lead to a slower growth rate, constant or lower margins, as well as lower revenue growth. There can be no assurance that any acquisition we make in the future will provide us with the benefits that we anticipate when entering into the transaction. The process of integrating an acquired business may create unforeseen difficulties and expenses. The areas in which we may face risks include, but are not limited to, those described above in relationship to the Linc acquisition. We are subject to intense competition that can constrain our ability to gain business, as well as our profitability. We believe that each aspect of our business is highly competitive and that such competition is based primarily on price and quality of service. We provide nearly all our services under contracts originally obtained through competitive bidding. The low cost of entry to the facility services business has led to strongly competitive markets consisting primarily of regional and local owner-operated companies. We also compete with 8 Table of Contents a few large, diversified facility services and manufacturing companies on a national basis. Indirectly, we compete with building owners and tenants who can perform internally one or more of the services that we provide. These building owners and tenants have an increased advantage in locations where our services are subject to sales tax and internal operations are not. Competitors may have lower costs because privately owned companies operating in a limited geographic area may have significantly lower labor and overhead costs. These strong competitive pressures could impede our success in bidding for profitable business and our ability to increase prices even as costs rise, thereby reducing margins. We have high deductibles for certain insurable risks, and therefore we are subject to volatility associated with those risks. We are subject to certain insurable risks such as workers’ compensation, general liability, automobile and property damage. We maintain commercial insurance policies that provide $150.0 million (or $75.0 million with respect to claims acquired from OneSource Services, Inc. (“OneSource”) in 2008) of coverage for certain risk exposures above our deductibles (i.e., self-insurance retention limits). Our deductibles, currently and historically, have generally ranged from $0.5 million to $1.0 million per occurrence (in some cases somewhat higher in California). We are also responsible for claims in excess of our insurance coverage. Pursuant to our management and service contracts, we allocate a portion of our insurance-related costs to certain clients, including workers’ compensation insurance, at rates that, because of the scale of our operations and claims experience, we believe are competitive. A material change in our insurance costs due to a change in the number of claims, costs or premiums could have a material effect on our operating results. Should we be unable to renew our umbrella and other commercial insurance policies at competitive rates, it would have an adverse impact on our business, as would the incurrence of catastrophic uninsured claims or the inability or refusal of our insurance carriers to pay otherwise insured claims. Further, to the extent that we self-insure, deterioration in claims management could increase claim costs, particularly in the workers’ compensation area. Additionally, although we engage third-party experts to assist us in estimating appropriate self-insurance accounting reserves, the determination of those reserves is dependent upon significant actuarial judgments that have a material impact on our reserves. For example, quantitative assessments of the impact of recently enacted legislation/regulation and/or court rulings require a great deal of actuarial judgment, which are then updated as actual experience reflecting those changed environment factors becomes available. Changes in our insurance reserves as a result of our periodic evaluations of the related liabilities will likely cause significant volatility in our operating results that might not be indicative of the operations of our ongoing business. An increase in costs that we cannot pass on to clients could affect our profitability. We negotiate many contracts under which our clients agree to pay certain costs related to workers’ compensation and other insurance coverage where we self-insure much of our risk. If actual costs exceed the rates specified in the contracts, our profitability may decline unless we can negotiate increases in these rates. In addition, if our costs, particularly workers’ compensation, other insurance costs, labor costs, payroll taxes, and fuel costs, exceed those of our competitors, we may lose existing business unless we reduce our rates to levels that may not fully cover our costs. We primarily provide our services pursuant to agreements which are cancelable by either party upon 30 to 60 days’ notice. Our clients can unilaterally decrease the amount of services we provide or terminate all services pursuant to the terms of our service agreements. Any loss of a significant number of clients could in the aggregate materially adversely affect our operating results. Our success depends on our ability to preserve our long-term relationships with clients. The business associated with long-term relationships is generally more profitable than that associated with short-term relationships because we incur start-up costs under many new contracts. Once these costs are expensed or fully depreciated over the appropriate periods, the underlying contracts become more profitable. Our loss of long-term clients could have an adverse impact on our profitability even if we generate equivalent revenues from new clients. We incur significant accounting and other control costs that reduce profitability. As a publicly traded corporation, we incur certain costs to comply with regulatory requirements. If regulatory requirements were to become more stringent or if accounting or other controls thought to be effective later fail, we may be forced to make additional expenditures, the amounts of which could be material. Most of our competitors are privately owned, so our accounting and control costs can be a competitive disadvantage. Should revenues decline or if we are unsuccessful at increasing prices to cover higher expenditures for internal controls and 9 Table of Contents audits, the costs associated with regulatory compliance will rise as a percentage of revenues. Risks Related to Market and Economic Conditions A decline in commercial office building occupancy and rental rates could affect our revenues and profitability. Our revenues are affected by commercial real estate occupancy levels. In certain geographic areas and service segments, our most profitable revenues are known as tag jobs, which are services performed for tenants in buildings in which our business performs building services for the property owner or management company. A decline in occupancy rates could result in a decline in fees paid by landlords, as well as tag work, which would lower revenues, and create pricing pressures and therefore lower margins. Additionally, adverse changes in occupancy rates may further reduce demand, depress prices for our services and cause our clients to cancel their agreements to purchase our services, thereby possibly reducing earnings and adversely affecting our business and results of operations. In addition, in those areas where the workers are unionized, decreases in revenues can be accompanied by relative increases in labor costs if we are obligated by collective bargaining agreements to retain workers with seniority and consequently higher compensation levels and cannot pass on these costs to clients. Deterioration in economic conditions in general could further reduce the demand for facility services and, as a result, reduce our earnings and adversely affect our financial condition. Changes in global, national and local economic conditions could have a negative impact on our business. Additionally, adverse economic conditions may result in clients cutting back on discretionary spending, such as tag work. Since a significant portion of Parking revenues is tied to the number of airline passengers and hotel guests, Parking results could be adversely affected by curtailment of business and personal travel. Financial difficulties or bankruptcy of one or more of our major clients could adversely affect our results. Future revenues and our ability to collect accounts receivable depend, in part, on the financial strength of clients. We estimate an allowance for accounts we do not consider collectible and this allowance adversely impacts profitability. In the event clients experience financial difficulty, and particularly if bankruptcy results, profitability is further impacted by our failure to collect accounts receivable in excess of the estimated allowance. Additionally, our future revenues would be reduced by the loss of these clients. Our ability to operate and pay our debt obligations depends upon our access to cash. Because ABM conducts business operations through operating subsidiaries, we depend on those entities to generate the funds necessary to meet financial obligations. Delays in collections, which could be heightened by disruption in the credit markets and the financial services industry, or legal restrictions could restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or loans to ABM. The earnings from, or other available assets of, these operating subsidiaries may not be sufficient to make distributions to enable us to pay interest on debt obligations when due or to pay the principal of such debt. We have standby letters of credit collateralizing self-insurance claims and insurance deposits that represent amounts collateralizing self-insurance claims that we cannot access for operations. In addition, $25.0 million original principal amount of our investment portfolio is invested in auction rate securities that are not actively traded. In the event we need to liquidate our auction rate securities prior to a successful auction, our expected holding period, or their scheduled maturity, we might not be able to do so without realizing further losses. Future declines in the fair value of our investments in auction rate securities could negatively impact our earnings. Future declines in the fair value of our investments in auction rate securities that we deem temporary will be recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of taxes. In the past, we have experienced declines in the fair value of our investments in auction rate securities that we have determined to be other-than-temporary. If at any time in the future we determine that a further decline in fair value is other-than-temporary, we will record a charge to earnings for the credit loss portion of the impairment. In addition, the significant assumptions used in estimating credit losses may be different than actual realized losses, which could impact our earnings. Uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact our costs of borrowing, our ability to collect receivables on a timely basis and our cash flow. The United States and global economies and the financial and credit markets continue to experience declines or slow growth and there continues to be diminished liquidity and credit availability. These conditions may have a material adverse effect on our operations and our costs of borrowing. In addition, the tightening of credit in financial markets may adversely affect the 10 Table of Contents ability of our clients to obtain financing, which could adversely impact our ability to collect amounts due from such clients or result in a decrease, or cancellation, of our services under our client contracts. Declines in our ability to collect receivables or in the level of client spending could adversely affect the results of our operations and our liquidity. Risks Relating to Indebtedness and Impairment Charges Any future increase in the level of debt or in interest rates can affect our results of operations. Any future increase in the level of debt will likely increase our interest expense. Unless the operating income associated with the use of these funds exceeds the debt expense, borrowing money will have an adverse impact on our results. In addition, incurring debt requires that a portion of cash flow from operating activities be dedicated to interest payments and principal payments. Debt service requirements could reduce our ability to use our cash flow to fund operations and capital expenditures or to capitalize on future business opportunities (including additional acquisitions). Because current interest rates on our debt are variable, an increase in prevailing rates would increase our interest costs. Further, our credit facility agreement contains both financial covenants and covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified transactions, which may also constrain our flexibility. An impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Under Accounting Standards Codificationtm (“ASC”) 350, “Intangibles — Goodwill and Other” (“ASC 350”), we are required to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis based upon a fair value approach. Goodwill represents the excess of the amount we paid to acquire our subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the dates of the acquisitions. We have chosen to perform our annual impairment reviews of goodwill at the beginning of the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. We also are required to test goodwill for impairment between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of any reporting unit below its carrying amount. In addition, we test certain intangible assets for impairment annually or if events occur or circumstances change that would indicate the remaining carrying amount of these intangible assets might not be recoverable. These events or circumstances could include, but are not limited to, a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, and sale or disposition of a significant portion of one of our businesses. If the fair market value of one of our businesses is less than its carrying amount, we could be required to record an impairment charge. The valuation of the businesses requires judgment in estimating future cash flows, discount rates and other factors. In making these judgments, we evaluate the financial health of our businesses, including such factors as market performance, changes in our client base and operating cash flows. The amount of any impairment could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. Risks Related to Labor, Legal Proceedings and Compliance We are defendants in several class and representative actions or other lawsuits alleging various claims that could cause us to incur substantial liabilities. We are defendants in several class and representative action lawsuits brought by or on behalf of our current and former employees alleging violations of federal and state law, including with respect to certain wage and hour matters. It is not possible to predict the outcome of these lawsuits or any other litigation or arbitration to which we are subject. These lawsuits and other proceedings may consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the lawsuits and other proceedings. In addition, we may become subject to similar lawsuits in the same or other jurisdictions. An unfavorable outcome with respect to these lawsuits and any future lawsuits could, individually or in the aggregate, cause us to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. Federal health care reform legislation may adversely affect our business and results of operations. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law in the United States (collectively, the “Health Care Reform Laws”). The Health Care Reform Laws include a large number of health-related provisions that become effective over the next four years, including requiring most individuals to have health insurance and establishing new regulations on health plans. Although the Health Care Reform Laws do not mandate that employers offer health insurance, beginning in 2014 penalties will be assessed on large employers who do not offer health insurance that meets certain affordability or benefit requirements. Providing such additional health insurance 11 Table of Contents benefits to our employees, or the payment of penalties if such coverage is not provided, would increase our expense. If we are unable to raise the rates we charge our clients to cover this expense, such increases in expense could reduce our operating profit. In addition, under the Health Care Reform Laws employers will have to file a significant amount of additional information with the Internal Revenue Service and will have to develop systems and processes to track requisite information. We will have to modify our current systems, which could increase our general and administrative expense. Changes in immigration laws or enforcement actions or investigations under such laws could significantly adversely affect our labor force, operations and financial results. Because many jobs in our Janitorial segment do not require the ability to read or write English, we are an attractive employer for recent émigrés to this country and many of our jobs are filled by such. Adverse changes to existing laws and regulations applicable to employment of immigrants, enforcement requirements or practices under those laws and regulations, and inspections or investigations by immigration authorities or the prospects or rumors of any of the foregoing, even if no violations exist, could negatively impact the availability and cost of personnel and labor to the Company and the Company’s reputation. Labor disputes could lead to loss of revenues or expense variations. At October 31, 2010, approximately 43% of our employees were subject to various local collective bargaining agreements, some of which will expire or become subject to renegotiation during the year. In addition, at any given time, we may face a number of union organizing drives. When one or more of our major collective bargaining agreements becomes subject to renegotiation or when we face union organizing drives, we and the union may disagree on important issues that, in turn, could lead to a strike, work slowdown or other job actions at one or more of our locations. In a market where we and a number of major competitors are unionized, but other competitors are not unionized, we could lose clients to competitors who are not unionized. A strike, work slowdown or other job action could in some cases disrupt us from providing services, resulting in reduced revenues. If declines in client service occur or if our clients are targeted for sympathy strikes by other unionized workers, contract cancellations could result. The result of negotiating a first time agreement or renegotiating an existing collective bargaining agreement could result in a substantial increase in labor and benefits expenses that we may be unable to pass through to clients. In addition, proposed legislation, known as The Employee Free Choice Act, could make it significantly easier for union organizing drives to be successful and could give third-party arbitrators the ability to impose terms of collective bargaining agreements upon us and a labor union if we and such union are unable to agree to the terms of a collective bargaining agreement. We participate in multi-employer defined benefit plans which could result in substantial liabilities being incurred. We contribute to multi-employer benefit plans that could result in our being responsible for unfunded liabilities under such plans that could be material. Other Natural disasters or acts of terrorism could disrupt services. Storms, earthquakes, drought, floods or other natural disasters or acts of terrorism may result in reduced revenues or property damage. Disasters may also cause economic dislocations throughout the country. In addition, natural disasters or acts of terrorism may increase the volatility of financial results, either due to increased costs caused by the disaster with partial or no corresponding compensation from clients, or, alternatively, increased revenues and profitability related to tag jobs, special projects and other higher margin work necessitated by the disaster. Other issues and uncertainties may include: • Market rate changes in commodities or foreign currency rates may increase our operating expenses; • New accounting pronouncements or changes in accounting policies; • Changes in federal (U.S.) or state immigration law that raise our administrative costs; • Labor shortages that adversely affect our ability to employ entry level personnel; • Legislation or other governmental action that detrimentally impacts expenses or reduces revenues by adversely affecting our clients; and • The resignation, termination, death or disability of one or more key executives that adversely affects client retention or day-to-day management. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 12 Table of Contents 