ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition: A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR REVENUE IN FISCAL 2006 WAS DERIVED FROM DISASTER RESPONSE, LOSS MITIGATION AND RECONSTRUCTION WORK RELATIVE TO THE HURRICANES THAT HIT THE UNITED STATES. DISASTER RESPONSE, LOSS MITIGATION AND RECONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS RELATIVE TO HURRICANES PRESENT MANY UNIQUE CHALLENGES. In fiscal 2006 approximately 27% of our revenues were derived from disaster response, loss mitigation and reconstruction work relative to the four hurricanes that hit the southeastern United States. For fiscal 2007 we again expect to derive a significant amount of revenue from our disaster response, loss mitigation and reconstruction work. There can be no assurance that the magnitude of revenues generated in fiscal 2007 will be of the magnitude of the revenues realized in 2006 or that the emergency response and restoration contracts will be profitable or as profitable as those in fiscal 2006. The infrastructure of 5 New Orleans and the Gulf Coast was extensively damaged by Hurricane Katrina, which will present many unique challenges to our personnel as they attempt to complete the projects that we have received. THE TIMING OF CASH FLOW IS DIFFICULT TO PREDICT, AND ANY SIGNIFICANT DELAY IN THE CONTRACT CYCLE COULD MATERIALLY IMPAIR OUR CASH FLOW. The timing of our cash receipts from accounts receivable is unpredictable. In many cases we are a subcontractor to the general contractor on the project and, therefore, we often must collect outstanding accounts receivable from the general contractor, which, in turn, must collect from the customer. As a result, we are dependent upon the timing and success of the general contractor in collecting accounts receivable as well as the credit worthiness of the general contractor and the customer. Additionally, many of our contracts provide for retention of a portion of our billings until the project has been accepted by the owner. As our activities are usually early in the contract cycle, if we are acting as a subcontractor, the retainage (typically 5% to 10% of the contract value) may be held until the project is complete. This time frame may be many months after our completion of our portion of the contract. This delay further subjects us to the credit risk associated with the general contractor and the owner of the project. We can and often do avail ourselves of lien rights and other security common to the construction industry to offset the aforementioned credit risk. Unexpected delays in receiving amounts due from customers can put a strain on our cash availability and cause us to delay payments to vendors and subcontractors. Additionally, even if we have successfully completed our work on a project and there are no disputes regarding our performance of such work, any disputes between the general contractor and the owner regarding other aspects of the completed projects by entities other than us could result in further delays, or could prevent, payment for our work. At January 31, 2006, we had approximately $1.5 million of costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts and approximately $1.0 million of accounts receivable that represented contract claims and/or unapproved change orders. We expect to process change orders or pursue contract claims of approximately $3.6 million relative to the aforementioned contracts. Contract revenue reflects the original contract price adjusted for approved change orders and estimated minimum recoveries of unapproved change orders and claims. We recognize unapproved change orders and claims to the extent that related costs have been incurred and when it is probable that they will result in additional contract revenue and their value can be reliably estimated. Losses expected to be incurred on contracts in progress are charged to earnings in the period such losses are known. WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON OUR LINE OF CREDIT TO FINANCE OPERATIONS, AND THE FAILURE TO MAINTAIN THE LINE OF CREDIT WOULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR OPERATIONS. We currently have a $13.0 million line of credit from our financial institution Sky Bank. We rely significantly upon our line of credit in order to operate our business. The line of credit and term loan is secured by a "blanket" security interest in the assets of the Company and a mortgage on the real estate owned by the Company. On June 6, 2006 $2.0 million of the line of credit expires and the remaining $11.0 million line of credit expires on June 6, 2007. We expect that we will be able to maintain our existing line of credit (or to obtain replacement or additional financing) when it expires on June 6, 2007 or becomes fully utilized. However, there can be no assurance that such additional financing will be obtainable on favorable terms, if at all. An inability to maintain an adequate line of credit could result in limitations on our ability to bid for new or renew existing contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. IF WE WERE UNABLE TO MAINTAIN ADEQUATE INSURANCE AND SUFFICIENT BONDING CAPACITY, OUR OPERATIONS WOULD BE SIGNIFICANTLY IMPAIRED. The number and size of contracts that we can perform is directly dependent upon our ability to obtain sufficient insurance and bonding. We maintain an insurance and bonding program consistent with our operational needs. However, there have been events in the national economy, which have adversely affected the major insurance and surety companies. This has resulted in a tightening of the insurance and bonding markets, which has resulted in increasing costs and the availability of certain types of insurance and surety capacity either decreasing or becoming non-existent. We believe our current insurance and bonding programs will be sufficient to satisfy our needs in the future. However, if such programs are insufficient, we may be unable to secure and perform contracts, which would substantially impair our ability to operate our business. Additionally, we may incur liabilities that may not be covered by insurance policies, or, if covered, the dollar amount of such liabilities may exceed our policy limits. Such claims could also make it more difficult for us to obtain adequate insurance coverage in the future at a reasonable cost. A partially or completely uninsured claim, if successful and of significant magnitude, could cause us to suffer a significant loss and reduce cash available for our operations. 6 OUR MANAGEMENT INFORMATION, INTERNAL CONTROLS AND FINANCIAL REPORTING SYSTEMS MAY NEED FURTHER ENHANCEMENTS AND DEVELOPMENT TO COMPLY WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 AND THE COSTS OF COMPLIANCE MAY STRAIN OUR RESOURCES. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting. Currently, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending January 31, 2008. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, and civil or criminal penalties. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm report on management's evaluation of our system of internal controls and to identify material weaknesses in our accounting systems and controls. We are in the process of documenting and testing our system of internal controls to provide the basis for this report. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. IF OUR INSURANCE COSTS INCREASE SIGNIFICANTLY, THESE INCREMENTAL COSTS COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. Environmental remediation operations may expose our employees and others to dangerous and potentially toxic quantities of hazardous products. Such products can cause cancer and other debilitating diseases. Although we take precautions to minimize worker exposure and have not experienced any such claims from workers or others, there can be no assurance that, in the future, we will avoid liability to persons who contract diseases that may be related to such exposure. Such persons potentially include employees, persons occupying or visiting facilities in which contaminants are being, or have been, removed or stored, persons in surrounding areas, and persons engaged in the transportation and disposal of waste material. In addition, we are subject to general risks inherent in the construction industry. We may also be exposed to liability from the acts of our subcontractors or other contractors on a work site. The costs related to obtaining and maintaining workers compensation, professional and general liability insurance and health insurance have been increasing. If the cost of carrying such insurance continues to increase significantly, we will recognize an associated increase in costs that may negatively impact its margins. This could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and the price of its common stock. WE DEPEND UPON A FEW KEY EMPLOYEES AND THE LOSS OF THESE EMPLOYEES WOULD SEVERELY IMPACT US. Our success is dependent upon the efforts of our senior management and staff. None of our executives are legally bound to remain employed for any specific term except for our Chief Executive Officer, John Regan, who has a three-year employment agreement, expiring March 15, 2007. If key individuals leave us, we could be adversely affected if suitable replacement personnel are not quickly recruited. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. There is competition for qualified personnel and in some markets there is a shortage of qualified personnel in the businesses in which we operate. If we are unable to continue to attract or retain highly qualified managerial, technical and marketing personnel, the development, growth and future success of our business could be adversely affected. A SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF OUR CONTRACTS ARE AWARDED VIA COMPETITIVE BID AND ARE PRICED AS FIXED FEES, AND A FAILURE TO ACCURATELY ESTIMATE THE COST OF SUCH WORK COULD RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL LOSSES. A significant amount of our business is performed on a contract basis as a result of competitive bidding and is priced at fixed fees. We must estimate the costs involved with the applicable job prior to submitting a bid and, therefore, if awarded the job bear the risk if actual costs exceed the estimated costs. Cost overruns on projects covered by such contracts, due to such things as unanticipated price increases, unanticipated problems, inefficient project management, inaccurate estimation of labor or material costs or disputes over the terms and specifications of contract performance or change orders, could have a material adverse effect on us and our operations. In addition, in order to remain competitive in the future, we may have to continue to enter into more fixed price contracts. THE ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS, AND THE FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ANY SUCH REGULATIONS COULD RESULT IN FINES OR INJUNCTIONS, WHICH COULD MATERIALLY IMPAIR OR EVEN PREVENT THE OPERATION OF OUR BUSINESS. The environmental remediation business is subject to substantial regulations promulgated by governmental agencies, including the Environmental Protection Agency, various state agencies and county and local authorities acting in conjunction with such federal and state entities. These federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, which govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water, as well as the handling, storage, and disposal of 7 hazardous materials and the remediation of contaminated sites. Our businesses often involve working around and with volatile, toxic and hazardous substances and other highly regulated materials, the improper characterization, handling or disposal of which could constitute violations of U.S. federal, state or local laws and regulations and result in criminal and civil liabilities. Environmental laws and regulations generally impose limitations and standards for certain pollutants or waste materials and require us to obtain a permit and comply with various other requirements. Governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us, or revoke or deny issuance or renewal of operating permits, for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. We are also exposed to potential liability for personal injury or property damage caused by any release, spill, exposure or other accident involving such substances or materials. The environmental health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject are constantly changing, and it is impossible to predict the effect of such laws and regulations on us in the future. We cannot predict what future changes in laws and regulations may be or that these changes in the laws and regulations will not cause us to incur significant costs or adopt more costly methods of operation. The microbial remediation portion of our business currently is largely unregulated. As this business grows it is likely that government regulation will increase. We cannot predict how the regulations may evolve or whether they may require increased capital and/or operating expenditures to comply with the new regulations. THE FAILURE TO OBTAIN AND MAINTAIN REQUIRED GOVERNMENTAL LICENSES, PERMITS AND APPROVALS COULD HAVE A SUBSTANTIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR OPERATIONS. The portions of the environmental and specialty contracting industry are highly regulated. In portions of our business we are required to have federal, state and local governmental licenses, permits and approvals for its facilities and services. We cannot be assured of the successful outcome of any pending application or demonstration testing for any such license, permit or approval. In addition our existing licenses, permits and approvals are subject to revocation or modification under a variety of circumstances. Failure to obtain timely, or to comply with the conditions of, applicable licenses, permits or approvals could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As our business expands and as new procedures and technologies used in our business are introduced, we may be required to obtain additional operating licenses, permits or approvals. We may also be required to obtain additional operating licenses, permits or approvals if new environmental legislation or regulations are enacted or promulgated or existing legislation or regulations are amended, reinterpreted or enforced differently than in the past. Any new requirements that raise compliance standards may require us to modify our procedures and technologies to conform to more stringent regulatory requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to comply with all of the environmental and other regulatory requirements applicable to all of the various business we operate. THE RECEIPT OF CONTRACT AWARDS IS UNPREDICTABLE, AND THE FAILURE TO ADJUST OUR OVERHEAD STRUCTURE TO MEET AN UNEXPECTED DECLINE IN REVENUE COULD SIGNIFICANTLY IMPACT OUR NET INCOME. We are an environmental and specialty contractor and as such are affected by the timing of the award of large contracts. Therefore, backlogs, revenues and income are subject to significant fluctuation between quarters and years. Since our overhead structure is reasonably fixed, we may not be able to rapidly adjust our operating expenses to meet an unexpected decline in revenue, which could materially and adversely affect revenue and net income. OUR CREDIT FACILITY CONTAINS RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS THAT LIMIT OUR FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL FLEXIBILITY AND OUR ABILITY TO PAY DIVIDENDS. Our credit facility contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability to incur debt, require us to maintain certain financial ratios, such as a debt service coverage ratio and leverage ratio and restrict our ability to pay dividends. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions and we may be unable to comply with these covenants in the future. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under this credit facility. If we default, our lender will no longer be obligated to extend revolving loans to us and could declare all amounts outstanding under our credit facility, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay those amounts, our lender could proceed against the collateral granted to it to secure the indebtedness. The result of these actions would have a significantly negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition These restrictions may also adversely affect our ability to conduct and expand our operations. Adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on favorable terms. Even if adequate funds are available, our credit facility may restrict our ability to raise additional funds. If we are unable to raise capital, our finances and operations may be adversely affected. 8 THE ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION AND SPECIALTY CONTRACTING INDUSTRIES ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE AND WE FACE SUBSTANTIAL COMPETITION FROM OTHER COMPANIES. The environmental remediation and specialty contracting industries are very competitive. Many of our competitors have greater financial, managerial, technical and marketing resources than we have. To the extent that competitors possess or develop superior or more cost-effective environmental remediation solutions or field service capabilities, or otherwise possess or acquire competitive advantages compared to us, our ability to compete effectively could be materially adversely affected. OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY VARY FROM QUARTER TO QUARTER, CAUSING OUR STOCK PRICE TO FLUCTUATE. Our operating results have in the past been subject to quarter-to-quarter fluctuations, and we expect that these fluctuations will continue, and may increase in magnitude, in future periods. Demand for our services is driven by many factors, including national and regional economic trends, the occurrence of unanticipated natural disasters, changes in governmental regulation and our success in being awarded contracts, among other items. These fluctuations in customer demand for our services can create corresponding fluctuations in period-to-period revenues, and therefore results in one period may not be indicative of our revenues in any future period. In addition, the number and timing of large individual contracts are difficult to predict, and large individual sales have, in some cases, occurred in quarters subsequent to those we anticipated, or have not occurred at all. The loss or deferral of one or more significant contracts in a quarter could harm our operating results. It is possible that in some quarters our operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. In such events, or in the event adverse conditions prevail, the market price of our common stock may decline significantly. It is also possible that in some quarters our operating results, particularly with respect to disaster response, will be unusually high due to the occurrence of unanticipated natural disasters. In these situations, our operating results in subsequent financial quarters may decline, which could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. WE CANNOT GIVE ANY ASSURANCE THAT WE WILL BE ABLE TO SECURE ADDITIONAL FINANCING TO MEET ITS FUTURE CAPITAL NEEDS. Our long-term capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, cash flow from operations, the level of capital expenditures, working capital requirements and the growth of our business. We may need to incur additional indebtedness or raise additional capital to fund the capital needs of our operations or related growth opportunities. To the extent additional debt financing cannot be raised on acceptable terms, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity financings. No assurance can be given that additional debt or equity financing will be available or that, if such financing is available, the terms of such financing will be favorable to us or to our stockholders. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to curtail its future operations significantly or to forego expansion opportunities. VOTING CONTROL IS HELD BY OUR DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND SIGNIFICANT STOCKHOLDERS, WHOSE INTEREST MAY CONFLICT WITH THOSE OF OUR OTHER SHAREHOLDERS. Currently our directors and officers as a group beneficially own approximately 20% of our voting securities. Accordingly, acting together, they may be able to substantially influence the election of directors, management and policies and the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to its stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, three stockholders, unrelated to us, have filed Schedule 13-G's noting ownership of our common stock in excess of 5% of our outstanding common shares. Accordingly, they may be able to substantially influence the election of directors, management and policies and the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to its stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. From time to time, these unrelated stockholders may have interests that differ from those of our other stockholders. THERE MAY BE LIMITED LIQUIDITY IN OUR COMMON STOCK AND ITS PRICE MAY BE SUBJECT TO FLUCTUATION. Our common stock is currently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board and there is only a limited market for our common stock. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to have our common stock listed on an exchange or quoted on NASDAQ or that we will continue to be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. If there is no market for trading our common stock, our stockholders will have substantial difficulty in trading in it and the market price of our common stock will be materially and adversely affected. 9 SEC RULES CONCERNING SALES OF LOW-PRICED SECURITIES MAY HINDER RE-SALES OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Because our common stock has a market price that is less than five dollars per share and our common stock is not listed on an exchange or quoted on NASDAQ and is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, brokers and dealers who handle trades in our common stock are subject to certain SEC rules when effecting trades in our common stock. Additionally, the compensation that the brokerage firm and the salesperson handling a trade receive and legal remedies available to the buyer are also subject to SEC rules. These requirements may hinder re-sales of our common stock and may adversely affect the market price of the common stock. OUR STRATEGY WILL INCLUDE MAKING ADDITIONAL ACQUISITIONS THAT MAY PRESENT RISKS TO THE BUSINESS. Making additional strategic acquisitions is part of our strategy. For example, on August 25, 2005, we completed the acquisition of certain assets of Flagship and its affiliated companies. Our ability to make future acquisitions will depend upon identifying attractive acquisition candidates and, if necessary, obtaining financing on satisfactory terms. Acquisitions may pose certain risks to us. These risks include the following: - - we may be entering markets in which we have limited experience; - - the acquisitions may be potential distractions to us and may divert resources and managerial time; - - it may be difficult or costly to integrate an acquired business' financial, computer, payroll and other systems into our own; - - we may have difficulty implementing additional controls and information systems appropriate for a growing company; - - some of the acquired businesses may not achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow; - - we may have unanticipated liabilities or contingencies from an acquired business; - - we may have reduced earnings due to amortization expenses, goodwill impairment charges, increased interest costs and costs related to the acquisition and its integration; - - we may finance future acquisitions by issuing common stock for some or all of the purchase price which could dilute the ownership interests of the stockholders; - - acquired companies will have to become, within one year of their acquisition, compliant with SEC rules relating to internal control over financial reporting adopted pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; - - we may be unable to retain management and other key personnel of an acquired company; and - - we may impair relationships with an acquired company's employees, suppliers or customers by changing management. If we are unsuccessful in meeting the challenges arising out of our acquisitions, our business, financial condition and future results could be materially harmed. Additionally, to the extent that the value of the assets acquired in any prior or future acquisitions, including goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives, becomes impaired, we would be required to incur impairment charges that would affect earnings. Such impairment charges could reduce our earnings and have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES, HOLDERS OF THE SERIES C PREFERRED MAY REQUIRE US TO REDEEM THEIR PREFERRED STOCK AT A REDEMPTION AMOUNT IN EXCESS OF THE FACE VALUE OF THE SERIES C PREFERRED. Under certain circumstances, holders of our Series C Preferred outstanding may require us to redeem their preferred stock at a pre-determined redemption amount (as defined in the Certificate of Designation), which may exceed the face value of the Series C Preferred, including, without limitation, in the following circumstances: (a) if we fail to remove any restrictive legend on any certificate or any shares of common stock issued to the Preferred Stockholders (other than during a permitted black-out period as defined in the Certificate of Designation), (b) upon a bankruptcy event, (c) upon a sale of all or substantially all of the assets or merger of us or (d) we fail to comply in all material respects with certain specified covenants set forth in the Securities Purchase Agreement with the Preferred Stockholders or the Registration Rights Agreement with the Preferred Stockholders. 10 HOLDERS OF THE SERIES C PREFERRED HAVE SUBSTANTIAL RIGHTS THAT COULD ALLOW THEM TO SIGNIFICANTLY INFLUENCE THE MANAGEMENT AND DIRECTION OF THE COMPANY, AND SUCH HOLDERS MAY HAVE INTERESTS THAT DIFFER FROM THOSE OF THE OTHER STOCKHOLDERS. Holders of the Series C Preferred have no voting rights, except as required by law. However, as long as any shares of Series C Preferred remain outstanding, we cannot take the following corporate actions without the separate class vote or written consent of a majority of the then outstanding Series C Preferred: (i) alter the rights or preferences or privileges of the Series C Preferred, or increase the authorized number of shares of Series C Preferred, (ii) issue any shares of Series C Preferred or warrants to purchase additional shares of common stock at specified exercise prices other than pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement with Preferred Stockholders, (iii) redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire, or declare or pay any cash dividend or distribution on, any class of stock ranking junior to the Series C Preferred with respect to liquidation, (iv) increase the par value of the common stock or (v) cause or authorize any subsidiary of us to engage in any of the foregoing actions. In addition, as long as 250 shares of Series C Convertible Series C Preferred remain outstanding, we cannot take the following corporate actions without the separate class vote or written consent of a majority of the then outstanding Series C Preferred: (i) alter the rights, preferences or privileges of any capital stock of us so as to affect adversely the Series C Preferred, (ii) create or issue any class of stock ranking senior to, or on equal basis with, the Series C Preferred with respect to liquidation, (iii) issue any debt securities or incur any indebtedness that would have any preferences over the Series C Preferred upon liquidation of us, or redeem, repurchase, prepay or otherwise acquire any outstanding debt securities or indebtedness of us (subject to certain exceptions), (iv) sell or otherwise transfer 10% or more of our assets (subject to certain exceptions), (v) enter into any agreement, commitment, understanding or other arrangement to take any of the foregoing actions or (vi) cause or authorize any subsidiary of us to engage in any of the foregoing actions. Additionally, the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock have other significant rights relating to, among other things, liquidation, redemption, conversion and payments of premium. As a result of such rights, one or more of our preferred stockholders could substantially influence our management and policies and the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters. From time to time, such preferred stockholders may have interests that differ from those of our other stockholders. WE ARE REQUIRED TO FILE AND TO KEEP EFFECTIVE A SHELF REGISTRATION STATEMENT FOR STOCKHOLDERS AND IF WE ARE UNABLE TO DO SO FOR THE REQUIRED PERIOD WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO MAKE ADDITIONAL PAYMENTS TO THE HOLDERS OF THE SERIES C PREFERRED AND COMMON STOCK ISSUED IN CONNECTION WITH THE JULY 2005 PRIVATE PLACEMENT OF OUR SECURITIES. In connection with the private placements, we entered into registration rights agreements with the Common Stockholders and Preferred Stockholders. Under these registration rights agreements, we agreed to file a registration statement for the purpose of registering the resale of the common stock and the shares of common stock underlying the convertible securities we issued in the private placements. The registration rights agreements require us to keep the registration statement effective for a specified period of time. In the event that the registration statement is not filed or declared effective within the specified deadlines or is not effective for any period exceeding a permitted Black-Out Period (45 consecutive Trading Days but no more than an aggregate of 75 Trading Days during any 12-month period), then we will be obligated to pay the Preferred and Common Stockholders up to 12% of their purchase price per annum. On November 21, 2005 our Registration Statement on Form S-2 was declared effective by the Securities & Exchange Commission. Other than the aforementioned monetary penalty, there are no provisions requiring cash payments or settlements if registered shares cannot be provided upon conversion/exercise or the shareholders cannot sell their shares due to a blackout event. After assessing the provisions of the registration rights agreements and the related authoritive guidance a $20,000 warrant derivative liability was provided. No gain or loss on the derivative was recorded in the year ended January 31, 2006 and the liability was recorded in accrued liabilities. 