RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition: THE TIMING OF CASH FLOW IS DIFFICULT TO PREDICT, AND ANY SIGNIFICANT DELAY IN THE CONTRACT CYCLE COULD MATERIALLY IMPAIR OUR CASH FLOW. The timing of our cash receipts from accounts receivable is unpredictable. In many cases we are a subcontractor to the general contractor on the project and, therefore, we often must collect outstanding accounts receivable from the general contractor, which, in turn, must collect from the customer. As a result, we are dependent upon the timing and success of the general contractor in collecting accounts receivable as well as the credit worthiness of the general contractor and the customer. Additionally, many of our contracts provide for retention of a portion of our billings until the project has been accepted by the owner. As our activities are usually early in the contract cycle, if we are acting as a subcontractor, the retainage (typically 5% to 10% of the contract value) may be held until the project is complete. This time frame may be many months after our completion of our portion of the contract. This delay further subjects us to the credit risk associated with the general contractor and the owner of the project. We can and often do avail ourselves of lien rights and other security common to the construction industry to offset the aforementioned credit risk. Unexpected delays in receiving amounts due from customers can put a strain on our cash availability and cause us to delay payments to vendors and subcontractors. Additionally, even if we have successfully completed our work on a project and there are no disputes regarding our performance of such work, any disputes between the general contractor and the owner regarding other aspects of the completed projects by entities other than us could result in further delays, or could prevent, payment for our work. WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON OUR LINE OF CREDIT TO FINANCE OPERATIONS, AND THE FAILURE TO MAINTAIN THE LINE OF CREDIT WOULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR OPERATIONS. We currently have an $8.0 million line of credit from our financial institution Sky Bank. We rely significantly upon our line of credit in order to operate our business. To secure the line of credit, Mr. Regan, our Chief Executive Officer, has provided a limited personal guarantee to the bank. The line of credit and term loan is secured by a "blanket" security interest in the assets of the Company and a mortgage on the real estate owned by the Company. The first $1.5 million of this line of credit expires on June 30, 2005 with the remaining $6.5 million expiring on June 6, 2006. We expect that we will be able to maintain our existing line of credit (or to obtain replacement or additional financing) when it expires on June 6, 2006 or becomes fully utilized. However, there can be no assurance that such additional financing will be obtainable on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, Mr. Regan is under no obligation to provide personal guarantees for additional financing in the future. An inability 5 to maintain an adequate line of credit could result in limitations on our ability to bid for new or renew existing contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. IF WE WERE UNABLE TO MAINTAIN ADEQUATE INSURANCE AND SUFFICIENT BONDING CAPACITY, OUR OPERATIONS WOULD BE SIGNIFICANTLY IMPAIRED. We maintain an insurance and bonding program consistent with our operational needs; however, there have been events in the national economy, which have adversely affected the major insurance and surety companies. This has resulted in a tightening of the insurance and bonding markets, which has resulted in the costs increasing and the availability of certain types of insurance and surety capacity either decreasing or becoming non-existent. We do not know whether our current insurance and bonding programs will be sufficient to satisfy our needs in the future. To secure the surety bonds, Mr. Regan, our Chief Executive Officer, has provided a limited personal guarantee to our surety. Mr. Regan is under no obligation to provide such guarantee in the future. If such programs are insufficient or if Mr. Regan elects not to provide such guarantee in the future, we may be unable to secure and perform contracts, which would substantially impair our ability to operate our business. Additionally, we may incur liabilities that may not be covered by insurance policies, or, if covered, the dollar amount of such liabilities may exceed our policy limits. Such claims could also make it more difficult for us to obtain adequate insurance coverage in the future at a reasonable cost. A partially or completely uninsured claim, if successful and of significant magnitude, could cause us to suffer a significant loss and reduce cash available for our operations. WE DEPEND UPON A FEW KEY EMPLOYEES AND THE LOSS OF THESE EMPLOYEES WOULD SEVERELY IMPACT US. Our success is dependent upon the efforts of our senior management and staff. None of our executives are legally bound to remain employed for any specific term except for our Chief Executive Officer, John Regan, who has a three-year employment agreement. If key individuals leave us, we could be adversely affected if suitable replacement personnel are not quickly recruited. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. There is competition for qualified personnel and in some markets there is a shortage of qualified personnel in the businesses in which we operate. If we are unable to attract or retain one or more of our key employees, the development and growth of our business could be adversely affected. A SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF OUR CONTRACTS ARE AWARDED VIA COMPETITIVE BID AND ARE PRICED AS FIXED FEES, AND A FAILURE TO ACCURATELY ESTIMATE THE COST OF SUCH WORK COULD RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL LOSSES. A significant amount of our business is performed on a contract basis as a result of competitive bidding and is priced at fixed fees. We must estimate the costs involved with the applicable job prior to submitting a bid and, therefore, if awarded the job bear the risk if actual costs exceed the estimated costs. Failure to make accurate estimates could result in losses being incurred by thereby reducing or eliminating profit and us for a specific quarter or fiscal year. THE ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS, AND THE FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ANY SUCH REGULATIONS COULD RESULT IN FINES OR INJUNCTIONS, WHICH COULD MATERIALLY IMPAIR OR EVEN PREVENT THE OPERATION OF OUR BUSINESS. The environmental remediation business is subject to substantial regulations promulgated by governmental agencies, including the Environmental Protection Agency, various state agencies and county and local authorities acting in conjunction with such federal and state entities. These federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, which govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water, as well as the handling, storage, and disposal of hazardous materials and the remediation of contaminated sites. Our businesses often involve working around and with volatile, toxic and hazardous substances and other highly regulated materials, the improper characterization, handling or disposal of which could constitute violations of U.S. federal, state or local laws and regulations and result in criminal and civil liabilities. Environmental laws and regulations generally impose limitations and standards for certain pollutants or waste materials and require us to obtain a permit and comply with various other requirements. Governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us, or revoke or deny issuance or renewal of operating permits, for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. We are also exposed to potential liability for personal injury or property damage caused by any release, spill, exposure or other accident involving such substances or materials. The environmental health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject are constantly changing, and it is impossible to predict the effect of such laws and regulations on us in the future. We cannot predict what future changes in laws and regulations may be or that these changes in the laws and regulations will not cause us to incur significant costs or adopt more costly methods of operation. 6 The microbial remediation portion of our business currently is largely unregulated. As this business grows it is likely that government regulation will increase. We cannot predict how the regulations may evolve or whether they may require increased capital and/or operating expenditures to comply with the new regulations. THE RECEIPT OF CONTRACT AWARDS IS UNPREDICTABLE, AND THE FAILURE TO ADJUST OUR OVERHEAD STRUCTURE TO MEET AN UNEXPECTED DECLINE IN REVENUE COULD SIGNIFICANTLY IMPACT OUR NET INCOME. We are an environmental and specialty contractor and as such are affected by the timing of the award of large contracts. Therefore, backlogs, revenues and income are subject to significant fluctuation between quarters and years. Since our overhead structure is reasonably fixed, we may not be able to rapidly adjust our operating expenses to meet an unexpected decline in revenue, which could impact revenue and net income. OUR CREDIT FACILITY CONTAINS RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS THAT LIMIT OUR FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL FLEXIBILITY AND OUR ABILITY TO PAY DIVIDENDS. Our credit facility contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability to incur debt, require us to maintain financial ratios, such as a debt service coverage ratio and leverage ratio and restrict our ability to pay dividends. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions and we may be unable to comply with these covenants in the future. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under this credit facility. If we default, our lender will no longer be obligated to extend revolving loans to us and could declare all amounts outstanding under our credit facility, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay those amounts, our lender could proceed against the collateral granted to it to secure the indebtedness. The result of these actions would have a significantly negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition These restrictions may also adversely affect our ability to conduct and expand our operations. Adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on favorable terms. Even if adequate funds are available, our credit facility may restrict our ability to raise additional funds. If we are unable to raise capital, our finances and operations may be adversely affected. THE BUSINESSES IN WHICH THE COMPANY OPERATES ARE VERY COMPETITIVE. The environmental and specialty contracting industries are very competitive. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources than we have. As a result, these competitors may have an advantage in responding more rapidly or effectively to changes in the industry or technologies. Moreover, competitors who have substantially greater resources may be better able to withstand the unexpected declines in revenue or losses. OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY VARY FROM QUARTER TO QUARTER, CAUSING OUR STOCK PRICE TO FLUCTUATE. Our operating results have in the past been subject to quarter-to-quarter fluctuations, and we expect that these fluctuations will continue, and may increase in magnitude, in future periods. Demand for our services is driven by many factors, including national and regional economic trends, changes in governmental regulation and our success in being awarded contracts, among other items. These fluctuations in customer demand for our services can create corresponding fluctuations in period-to-period revenues, and we therefore cannot assure you that our results in one period are necessarily indicative of our revenues in any future period. In addition, the number and timing of large individual contracts are difficult to predict, and large individual contracts have, in some cases, occurred in quarters subsequent to those we anticipated, or have not occurred at all. The loss or deferral of one or more significant contracts in a quarter could harm our operating results. It is possible that in some quarters our operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. In such events, or in the event adverse conditions prevail, the market price of our common stock may decline significantly. IF OUR ACCOUNTING CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES ARE CIRCUMVENTED OR OTHERWISE FAIL TO ACHIEVE THEIR INTENDED PURPOSES, OUR BUSINESS COULD BE SERIOUSLY HARMED. Although we evaluate our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of each fiscal quarter, and are in the process of reviewing and establishing internal control over financial reporting in order to comply with SEC rules relating to internal control over financial reporting adopted pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we may not be able to prevent all instances of accounting errors or fraud in the future. Controls and procedures do not provide absolute assurance that all deficiencies in design or operation of these control systems, or all instances of errors or fraud, will be prevented or detected. These control systems are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving the goals of these systems in light of legal 7 requirements, company resources and the nature of our business operations. These control systems remain subject to risks of human error and the risk that controls can be circumvented for wrongful purposes by one or more individuals in management or non-management positions. The Company's business could be seriously harmed by any material failure of these control systems. VOTING CONTROL IS HELD BY OUR DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND A SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDER, WHOSE INTEREST MAY CONFLICT WITH OURS. Currently our directors and officers as a group beneficially own approximately 26% of our voting securities. Accordingly, acting together, they may be able to substantially influence the election of directors, management and policies and the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to its stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, Barron Partners beneficially owns approximately 20% of our voting securities. Accordingly, they may be able to substantially influence the election of directors, management and policies and the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to its stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. From time to time, Barron Partners may have interests that differ from those of our other stockholders. THERE MAY BE LIMITED LIQUIDITY IN OUR COMMON STOCK AND ITS PRICE MAY BE SUBJECT TO FLUCTUATION. Our common stock is currently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board and there is only a limited market for our common stock. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to have our common stock listed on an exchange or quoted on Nasdaq or that we will continue to be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. If there is no market for trading our common stock, our stockholders will have substantial difficulty in trading in it and the market price of our common stock will be materially and adversely affected. SEC RULES CONCERNING SALES OF LOW-PRICED SECURITIES MAY HINDER RE-SALES OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Because our common stock has a market price that is less than five dollars per share and our common stock is not listed on an exchange or quoted on Nasdaq and is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, brokers and dealers who handle trades in our common stock are subject to certain SEC rules when effecting trades in our common stock. Additionally, the compensation that the brokerage firm and the salesperson handling a trade receive and legal remedies available to the buyer are also subject to SEC rules. These requirements may hinder re-sales of our common stock and may adversely affect the market price of its common stock. OUR STRATEGY WILL INCLUDE MAKING ADDITIONAL ACQUISITIONS THAT MAY PRESENT RISKS TO THE BUSINESS. Making additional strategic acquisitions is part of our strategy. Our ability to make acquisitions will depend upon identifying attractive acquisition candidates and, if necessary, obtaining financing on satisfactory terms. Acquisitions may pose certain risks to us. These risks include the following: - we may be entering markets in which we have limited experience; - the acquisitions may be potential distractions to us and may divert resources and managerial time; - it may be difficult or costly to integrate an acquired business' financial, computer, payroll and other systems into our own; - we may have difficulty implementing additional controls and information systems appropriate for a growing company; - some of the acquired businesses may not achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow; - we may have unanticipated liabilities or contingencies from an acquired business; - we may have reduced earnings due to amortization expenses, goodwill impairment charges, increased interest costs and costs related to the acquisition and its integration; - we may finance future acquisitions by issuing common stock for some or all of the purchase price which could dilute the ownership interests of the stockholders; 8 - acquired companies will have to become, within one year of their acquisition, compliant with SEC rules relating to internal control over financial reporting adopted pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; - we may be unable to retain management and other key personnel of an acquired company; and - we may impair relationships with an acquired company's employees, suppliers or customers by changing management. If we are unsuccessful in meeting the challenges arising out of our acquisitions, our business, financial condition and future results could be materially harmed. Additionally, to the extent that the value of the assets acquired in any prior or future acquisitions, including goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives, becomes impaired, we would be required to incur impairment charges that would affect earnings. Such impairment charges could reduce our earnings and have a material adverse effect on the market value of the Company's common stock. WE ARE REQUIRED TO KEEP EFFECTIVE A SHELF REGISTRATION STATEMENT FOR CERTAIN SELLING SHAREHOLDERS AND IF WE ARE UNABLE TO DO SO FOR THE REQUIRED PROCEDURE WE MAY BE CHARGED SUBSTANTIAL LIQUIDATED DAMAGES. On March 4, 2004 we completed a private placement transaction pursuant to which we sold 1,250,000 shares of our Common Stock (the "Shares") to Barron Partners, LP (the "Investor") for an aggregate purchase price of $500,000. In addition, we issued two warrants (the "Warrants") to the Investor exercisable for shares of our Common Stock (the "Warrant Shares"). In connection with these transactions, we entered into a Registration Rights Agreement with the Investor. Under this agreement, we were required to file within ninety (90) days of closing a registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for the purpose of registering the resale of the Shares and the Warrant Shares. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission declared our registration statement effective on June 30, 2004. We are required to keep the registration statement effective until the earlier of two years from the Closing Date and such time as the remaining Shares and Warrant Shares may be sold under Rule 144 in any three-month period, subject to permitted Black-Out Periods (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement). In the event that the registration statement is not effective for any period exceeding a permitted Black-Out Period , then we will be obligated to pay the Investor liquidated damages equal to 18% of the Investor's purchase price per annum. 