ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATING TO OUR OPERATIONS Risks relating to our acquisition strategy may adversely impact our results of operations. A significant portion of our historic growth has been generated by acquisitions and we expect to continue to acquire businesses in the future as part of our growth strategy. A slowdown in the pace of our acquisitions could lead to a slower growth rate and constant or lower margins. There can be no assurance that any acquisition we make in the future will provide us with the benefits that we anticipate when entering into the transaction. The process of integrating an acquired business may create unforeseen difficulties and expenses. The areas in which we may face risks in connection with any potential acquisitions of a business include, but are not limited to: • The acquisition may divert management time and focus from operating our business to acquisition integration; • Key employees may not remain, which could negatively impact our ability to grow the acquired business; • We may fail to integrate the acquired business’s accounting, information technology, human resources, and other administrative systems to permit effective management and reduce expenses; • We may fail to implement or improve internal controls, procedures, and policies appropriate for a public company at a business that prior to the acquisition lacked some of these controls, procedures, and policies; • We may incur additional indebtedness as a result of an acquisition, which could impact our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows; and • We may encounter unanticipated or unknown liabilities relating to the acquired business. Our strategy of moving to an integrated facility solutions provider platform, focusing on vertical market strategy, may not generate the growth in revenues or profitability that we expect. We believe that in the long term an integrated facility solutions approach will yield important benefits to the Company and our clients, including enhanced service quality, contract simplicity, and flexibility, as well as improved innovations in the delivery of services, resulting in increased revenue growth and increased profitability. However, revenues from market segments characterized by commodity driven purchasing decisions may generate lower levels of profitability. In addition, we may not be able to execute on this strategy as a result of, among other things, client resistance to an integrated approach, including our vertical marketing strategy, difficulty in penetrating certain market segments, inability to deliver comprehensive services requested, inability to acquire vertical market expertise, competition from existing integrated facility solutions providers, as well as increased competition from single service providers or module providers who provide specialized solutions based on bundled services. Any organizational change relating to this strategy may give rise to additional costs. We are subject to intense competition that can constrain our ability to gain business, as well as our profitability. We believe that each aspect of our business is highly competitive and that such competition is based primarily on price and quality of service. We provide nearly all our services under contracts originally obtained through competitive bidding. The low cost of entry to the facility services business has led to strongly competitive markets consisting primarily of regional and local owner-operated companies. We also compete with a few large, diversified facility services and manufacturing companies on a national basis. Indirectly, we compete with building owners and tenants who can perform internally one or more of the services that we provide. These building owners and tenants have an increased advantage in locations where our services are subject to sales tax and internal operations are not. Competitors may have lower costs because privately owned companies operating in a limited geographic area may have significantly lower labor and overhead costs. In addition, our Facility Solutions business requires persons with specialized skills, and our ability to retain and attract qualified employees depends on workforce availability and our ability to successfully compete for qualified persons having the necessary skills. These strong competitive pressures could impede our success in bidding for profitable business and our ability to increase prices even as costs rise, thereby reducing margins. Increases in costs that we cannot pass on to clients could affect our profitability. We negotiate many contracts under which our clients agree to pay certain costs, including those related to workers’ compensation, other insurance where we self-insure much of our risk, labor, payroll taxes, and petroleum. If actual costs exceed the rates specified in the contracts, our profitability may decline unless we can negotiate increases in these rates. In addition, if our costs exceed those of our competitors, we may lose existing business unless we reduce our rates to levels that may not fully cover our costs. 7 Table of Contents We have high deductibles for certain insurable risks, and therefore we are subject to volatility associated with those risks. We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance programs to provide for a number of risks, including workers’ compensation, general liability, property insurance, automobile liability and certain employee–related health care benefits plans. We are responsible for claims in excess of our insurance coverage, and while we endeavor to purchase insurance coverage that is appropriate to our assessment of risk, we are unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature, or magnitude of claims for direct or consequential damages. Our business may be negatively affected if in the future our insurance proves to be inadequate or unavailable. We attempt to mitigate certain of these risks by the implementation of companywide loss control efforts designed to decrease the incidence of events that might give rise to liability. These loss control efforts include fostering a climate of safety awareness, proactive pre-job hazard assessments, the dissemination of safety training materials and other employee engagement tools. Should we be unable to renew our umbrella and other commercial insurance policies at competitive rates, it would have a material adverse impact on our business, as would the incurrence of catastrophic uninsured claims or the inability or refusal of our insurance carriers to pay otherwise insured claims. Further, to the extent that we self-insure, deterioration in claims management could increase claim costs, particularly in the workers’ compensation area. A material change in our insurance costs due to a change in the number of claims, costs, premiums, or regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Although we engage third-party experts to assist us in estimating appropriate insurance accounting reserves, the determination of those reserves is dependent upon significant actuarial judgments that have a material impact on our reserves. For example, quantitative assessments of the impact of recently enacted legislation/regulation and/or court rulings require a great deal of actuarial judgment, which is then updated as actual experience becomes available. Changes in our insurance reserves as a result of our periodic evaluations of the related liabilities will likely cause significant volatility in our operating results that might not be indicative of the operations of our ongoing business. We primarily provide our services pursuant to agreements that are cancelable by either party upon 30 to 90 days’ notice. Our clients can unilaterally decrease the amount of services we provide or terminate all services pursuant to the terms of our service agreements. Any loss of a significant number of clients could in the aggregate materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to preserve our long-term relationships with clients. The business associated with long-term relationships is generally more profitable than that associated with short-term relationships because we incur start-up costs under many new contracts. Once these costs are expensed or fully depreciated over the appropriate periods, the underlying contracts become more profitable. Our loss of long-term clients could have an adverse impact on our profitability even if we generate equivalent revenues from new clients. Our international business exposes us to additional risks. Although substantially all of our operations are conducted in the United States, our international business, which includes operations through subsidiaries, joint ventures, as well as business operations by our franchisees, are subject to U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to exchange controls, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and similar laws in other foreign jurisdictions. Failure by our employees, representatives, or agents, as well as by our joint venture partners, to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities and could result in suspension or debarment from government contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, the services we provide internationally, including through the use of subcontractors, are sometimes in areas of military conflict or at military installations, which increases the risk of a situation causing injury or loss of life to our employees, subcontractors, or other third parties. Any accidents or incidents that occur in connection with our international operations could adversely affect our reputation, make it more difficult for us to compete for future contracts, or result in the loss of existing and future contracts. The impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but any one or more of them could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows as well as our reputation and our ability to conduct business. We conduct some of our operations through joint ventures, and our ability to do business may be affected by the failure of our joint venture partners to perform their obligations or the improper conduct of joint venture employees, joint venture partners, or agents. The success of our joint ventures depends, in large degree, on the satisfactory performance by our joint venture partners of their joint venture obligations, including their obligation to commit capital, equity, or credit support as required by the joint venture agreements. If a joint venture partner fails to perform its joint venture obligations as a result of financial or other difficulties or any other reason, the joint venture may be unable to perform or deliver its contracted services. In addition, we also participate in joint ventures where we are not a controlling party, and in these cases, we may have limited control over the joint venture. We also may not be able to prevent and detect acts committed by joint venture employees, joint venture partners or agents that would violate the laws of the United States or other jurisdictions in which we operate, and any such violation could have a negative effect on our business. Any improper actions could result in civil or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties and could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows and our reputation and our ability to conduct business. 8 Table of Contents Significant delays or reductions in appropriations for our government contracts may negatively affect our business and could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The funding of U.S. Government programs are subject to annual congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. In many situations, Congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though the contract performance period may extend over several fiscal years. Accordingly, programs are often partially funded and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. If we incur costs in excess of funds committed on a contract, we may not receive reimbursement of those costs unless additional funds are appropriated. In the event that government funding for any of the programs relating to our U.S. Government contracts is reduced or delayed, the U.S. Government could terminate or adjust our contracts or subcontracts under such program, which could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations relating to our business with the U.S. Government and if we fail to comply with those rules, our business and our reputation could be adversely affected. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the award, administration, and performance of U.S. Government contracts. These contract laws and regulations are complex and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. A violation of certain laws and regulations could harm our reputation and result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts with the U.S. Government, or debarment from bidding on government contracts. Negative or unexpected tax consequences could adversely affect our results of operations. Adverse changes in the underlying profitability and financial outlook of our operations could lead to changes in our valuation allowances against deferred tax assets on our consolidated balance sheet, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, changes in tax laws in the United States where we have significant operations could have an adverse effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets and results of operations. We are also subject to tax audits by governmental authorities in the United States. Negative unexpected results from one or more such tax audits could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are subject to business continuity risks associated with centralization of certain administrative functions. Certain administrative functions, primarily in North America, have been regionally centralized to improve efficiency and reduce costs. To the extent that these central locations are disrupted or disabled, key business processes, such as accounts payable, payroll and general management operations, could be interrupted. RISKS RELATED TO MARKET AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS A decline in commercial office building occupancy and rental rates could affect our revenues and profitability. Our revenues are affected by commercial real estate occupancy levels. In certain geographic areas and service segments, our most profitable revenues are known as tag jobs, which are services performed for tenants in buildings in which our business performs building services for the property owner or management company. A decline in occupancy rates could result in a decline in fees paid by landlords, as well as tag work, which would lower revenues and create pricing pressures and therefore lower margins. Additionally, adverse changes in occupancy rates may further reduce demand, depress prices for our services and cause our clients to cancel their agreements to purchase our services, thereby possibly reducing earnings and adversely affecting our business and results of operations. Moreover, in those areas where the workers are unionized, decreases in revenues can be accompanied by relative increases in labor costs if we are obligated by collective bargaining agreements to retain workers with seniority and consequently higher compensation levels and cannot pass on these costs to clients. Deterioration in economic conditions in general could reduce the demand for facility services and, as a result, reduce our earnings and adversely affect our financial condition. Continued slow domestic and international economic growth or other negative changes in global, national and local economic conditions could have a negative impact on our business. Specifically, adverse economic conditions may result in clients cutting back on discretionary spending, such as tag work. Additionally, since a significant portion of Parking revenues is tied to the number of airline passengers, hotel guests, and attendees at sports arenas, Parking results could be adversely affected by curtailment of business or personal travel and cutbacks in discretionary spending. 9 Table of Contents A variety of factors could adversely affect the results of operations of our building and energy services business. Any of the following could materially and adversely impact the results of operations of our building and energy services business: changes in energy costs or government regulations that would decrease the incentive for clients to update or improve their building control systems; revisions to energy efficiency legislation; increased competition; a decline in the outsourcing of facility management services; and the availability of labor to support growth of our energy service business. Financial difficulties or bankruptcy of one or more of our major clients could adversely affect our results. Future revenues and our ability to collect accounts receivable depend, in part, on the financial strength of our clients. We estimate an allowance for accounts we do not consider collectible and this allowance adversely impacts profitability. In the event clients experience financial difficulty, and particularly if bankruptcy results, profitability is further impacted by our failure to collect accounts receivable in excess of the estimated allowance. Additionally, our future revenues would be reduced by the loss of these clients. Our ability to operate and pay our debt obligations depends upon our access to cash. Because ABM conducts business operations through operating subsidiaries, we depend on those entities to generate the funds necessary to meet financial obligations. Delays in collections, which could be heightened by disruption in the credit markets and the financial services industry, or legal restrictions could restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or loans to ABM. The earnings from, or other available assets of, these operating subsidiaries may not be sufficient to fund operations and make distributions to enable us to pay interest on debt obligations when due or to pay the principal of such debt. We have standby letters of credit and insurance deposits that represent amounts collateralizing self-insurance claims that we cannot access for operations. In addition, $20.0 million original principal amount of our investment portfolio is invested in auction rate securities that are not actively traded. In the event we need to liquidate our auction rate securities prior to a successful auction, our expected holding period, or their scheduled maturity, we might not be able to do so without realizing further losses. Future declines in the fair value of our investments in auction rate securities could negatively impact our earnings. Future declines in the fair value of our investments in auction rate securities that we consider temporary will be recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of taxes. We have experienced declines in the fair value of our investments in auction rate securities that we have determined to be other-than-temporary. If at any time in the future we determine that a further decline in fair value is other-than-temporary, we will record a charge to earnings for the credit loss portion of the impairment. In addition, the significant assumptions used in estimating credit losses may be different than actual realized losses, which could impact our earnings. Uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact our costs of borrowing, our ability to collect receivables on a timely basis and our cash flow. The United States and global economies continue to experience slow growth, and the financial and credit markets could continue to experience significant declines that could diminish liquidity and credit availability. Any such diminishment may have a material adverse effect on our operations and our costs of borrowing. In addition, any tightening of credit in financial markets may adversely affect the ability of our clients to obtain financing, which could adversely impact our ability to collect amounts due from such clients or result in a decrease, or cancellation, of our services under our client contracts. Declines in our ability to collect receivables or in the level of client spending could adversely affect the results of our operations and our liquidity. We incur accounting and other control costs that reduce profitability. As a publicly traded corporation, we incur certain costs to comply with regulatory requirements. If regulatory requirements were to become more stringent or if accounting or other controls thought to be effective later fail, we may be forced to make additional expenditures, the amounts of which could be material. Most of our competitors are privately owned, so our accounting and control costs can be a competitive disadvantage. Sequestration under the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the “Budget Control Act”) or alternative measures that may be adopted in lieu of sequestration may negatively impact our business. The Budget Control Act contains a variety of measures intended to reduce the deficit over the U.S. fiscal years 2012-2021, including statutory caps on discretionary spending. In light of the Budget Control Act and deficit reduction pressures generally, it is possible that discretionary spending by the U.S. Government will remain constrained for a number of years. This could have a negative impact on the growth of our business with the U.S. Government, and in particular, the Department of Defense. In addition, without Congressional intervention, the Budget Control Act, or “sequestration,” takes effect on January 2, 2013. Some observers believe that sequestration could cause the U.S. economy to go into recession and could have material negative consequences to the global economy. Accordingly, the macro-economic effects of the Budget Control Act could have a material negative impact on our business if our clients reduce spending for our services in light of either continuing uncertainty or recession. 10 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO INDEBTEDNESS AND IMPAIRMENT CHARGES Any future increase in the level of our debt or in interest rates can affect our results of operations. Any future increase in the level of our debt will likely increase our interest expense. Unless the operating income associated with the use of these funds exceeds the debt expense, borrowing money will have an adverse impact on our results. In addition, incurring debt requires that a portion of cash flow from operating activities be dedicated to interest payments and principal payments. Debt service requirements could reduce our ability to use our cash flow to fund operations and capital expenditures or to capitalize on future business opportunities, including additional acquisitions. Because current interest rates on our debt are variable, an increase in prevailing rates would increase our interest costs. Further, our credit facility agreement contains both financial covenants and covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified transactions, which may also constrain our flexibility. An impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 350, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other, we are required to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis based upon a fair value approach. Goodwill represents the excess of the amount we paid to acquire our subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the dates of the acquisitions. We have chosen to perform our annual impairment reviews of goodwill at the beginning of the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. We also are required to test goodwill for impairment between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of any reporting unit below its carrying amount. In addition, we test certain intangible assets for impairment annually or if events occur or circumstances change that would indicate the remaining carrying amount of these intangible assets might not be recoverable. These events or circumstances could include, but are not limited to, a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, and sale or disposition of a significant portion of one of our businesses. If the fair value of one of our businesses is less than its carrying amount, we could be required to record an impairment charge. The valuation of the businesses requires judgment in evaluating, among other things, recent indications of market activity, and estimating future cash flows, discount rates and other factors. In making these judgments, we evaluate the financial health of our business, including such factors as market performance, changes in our client base and operating cash flows. The amount of any impairment could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. RISKS RELATED TO LABOR AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We are defendants in class and representative actions and other lawsuits alleging various claims that could cause us to incur substantial liabilities. Our business involves placing our employees in the workplaces of our clients. We incur risks relating to these activities, including, but not limited to, claims by our employees of violations of wage and hour requirements, claims arising out of the actions or inactions of our employees, including matters that we have indemnified a client for, and claims relating to discrimination or harassment of our employees. Some or all of these claims may lead to litigation, including class action litigation, and these matters may cause us to incur negative publicity with respect to these problems. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us. In addition, it is not possible to predict the outcome of these lawsuits or any other proceeding to which we may be subject. These lawsuits and other proceedings may consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the lawsuits and other proceedings. In addition, we may become subject to similar lawsuits in the same or other jurisdictions. An unfavorable outcome with respect to these lawsuits and any future lawsuits could, individually or in the aggregate, cause us to incur substantial liabilities that may have a material adverse effect upon our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. Federal health care reform legislation may adversely affect our business and results of operations. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law in the United States (collectively, the “Health Care Reform Laws”). The Health Care Reform Laws include a large number of health-related provisions, including requiring most individuals to have health insurance and establishing new regulations on health plans. Although the Health Care Reform Laws do not mandate that employers offer health insurance, beginning in 2014 penalties will be assessed on large employers who do not offer health insurance that meets certain affordability or benefit requirements. Providing such additional health insurance benefits to our employees, or the payment of penalties if such coverage is not provided, would increase our expense. If we are unable to raise the rates we charge our clients to cover this expense, such increases in expense could reduce our operating profit. In addition, under the Health Care Reform Laws employers will have to file a significant amount of additional information with the Internal Revenue Service and will have to develop systems and processes to track requisite information. We will have to modify our current systems, which could increase our general and administrative expense. 11 Table of Contents Changes in immigration laws or enforcement actions or investigations under such laws could significantly adversely affect our labor force, operations and financial results. Because many jobs in our Company do not require the ability to read or write English, we are an attractive employer for recent émigrés to this country and many of our jobs are filled by such. Adverse changes to existing laws and regulations applicable to employment of immigrants, enforcement requirements or practices under those laws and regulations, and inspections or investigations by immigration authorities or the prospects or rumors of any of the foregoing, even if no violations exist, could negatively impact the availability and cost of personnel and labor to the Company and the Company’s reputation. Labor disputes could lead to loss of revenues or expense variations. At October 31, 2012, approximately 48% of our employees were subject to various local collective bargaining agreements, some of which will expire or become subject to renegotiation during the year. In addition, at any given time, we may face a number of union organizing drives. When one or more of our major collective bargaining agreements becomes subject to renegotiation or when we face union organizing drives, we and the union may disagree on important issues that, in turn, could lead to a strike, work slowdown or other job actions at one or more of our locations. In a market where we and a number of major competitors are unionized, but other competitors are not unionized, we could lose clients to competitors who are not unionized. A strike, work slowdown or other job action could in some cases disrupt us from providing services, resulting in reduced revenues. If declines in client service occur or if our clients are targeted for sympathy strikes by other unionized workers, contract cancellations could result. The result of negotiating a first time agreement or renegotiating an existing collective bargaining agreement could result in a substantial increase in labor and benefits expenses that we may be unable to pass through to clients. We participate in multiemployer pension plans, which under certain circumstances could result in material liabilities being incurred. We participate in various multiemployer pension plans under union and industry–wide agreements that generally provide defined pension benefits to employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Because of the nature of multiemployer plans, there are risks associated with participation in these plans that differ from single-employer plans. Assets contributed by an employer to a multiemployer plan are not segregated into a separate account and are not restricted to provide benefits only to employees of that contributing employer. In the event that a participating employer to a multiemployer plan no longer contributes to the plan, the unfunded obligations of the plan may be borne by the remaining participating employers. In the event of the termination of a multiemployer pension plan or if we withdraw from a multiemployer pension plan, under applicable law we potentially could incur material liabilities. OTHER Natural disasters or acts of terrorism could disrupt services. Storms, earthquakes, drought, floods or other natural disasters or acts of terrorism may result in reduced revenues or property damage. Disasters may also cause economic dislocations throughout the country. In addition, natural disasters or acts of terrorism may increase the volatility of financial results, either due to increased costs caused by the disaster with partial or no corresponding compensation from clients or, alternatively, increased revenues and profitability related to tag jobs, special projects and other higher margin work necessitated by the disaster. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 