ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our OperationsRisks relating to our acquisition strategy may adversely impact our results of operations. In the past, a significant portion of our growth has been generated by acquisitions and we expect to continue to acquire businesses in the future as part of our growth strategy. A slowdown in the pace or size of our acquisitions could lead to a slower growth rate. There can be no assurance that any acquisition we make in the future will provide us with the benefits that we anticipate when entering into the transaction. The process of integrating an acquired business may create unforeseen difficulties and expenses. The areas in which we may face risks in connection with any potential acquisition of a business include, but are not limited to:•management time and focus may be diverted from operating our business to acquisition integration;•clients or key employees of acquired businesses may not remain, which could negatively impact our ability to grow the acquired business;•we may fail to integrate the acquired business’s accounting, information technology, human resources, and other administrative systems to permit effective management and expense reduction;•we may fail to implement or improve internal controls, procedures, and policies appropriate for a public company at a business that prior to the acquisition lacked some of these controls, procedures, and policies;•we may incur additional indebtedness as a result of an acquisition, which could impact our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows; and•we may encounter unanticipated or unknown liabilities relating to the acquired business.Our strategy of moving to an integrated facility solutions provider platform, which focuses on vertical markets, may not generate the organic growth in revenues or profitability that we expect. We believe that an integrated facility solutions approach will result in organic growth, increased profitability, and significant benefits to us and our clients. Our organic growth strategy depends on our ability to procure contracts and on current and future trends across both the private and public sectors to outsource facility solutions. The procurement of contracts is difficult in markets characterized by commodity driven purchasing decisions, which may generate lower levels of profitability. In addition, we may not be able to execute on this strategy as a result of, among other things, client resistance to an integrated approach, the challenges of our vertical marketing strategy, difficulty in penetrating certain markets, inability to deliver end-to-end services requested, inability to acquire vertical market expertise, competition from integrated facility solutions providers, as well as increased competition from single service providers or module providers. We are subject to intense competition that can constrain our ability to gain business as well as our profitability. We believe that each aspect of our business is highly competitive and that such competition is based primarily on price, quality of service, and ability to anticipate and respond to industry changes. A majority of our revenues are derived from projects requiring competitive bids; however, an invitation to bid is often conditioned upon prior experience, industry expertise, and financial strength. The low cost of entry in the facility solutions business results in a very competitive market. We experience competition from a large number of mostly regional and local owner-operated companies that may have better visibility to local markets and significantly lower labor and overhead costs, providing them with a competitive advantage. These strong competitive pressures could inhibit our success in bidding for profitable business and our ability to increase prices as costs rise, thereby reducing margins. Our business success depends on our ability to preserve our long-term relationships with clients. We primarily provide our services pursuant to agreements that are cancelable by either party upon 30 to 90 days’ notice, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Our business associated with long-term relationships is generally more profitable than that associated with short-term relationships because we generally incur higher initial costs on new contracts. Once these costs are expensed or fully amortized over the appropriate periods, the underlying contracts become more profitable. Our loss of long-term clients could have an adverse impact on our profitability even if we generate equivalent revenues from new clients. In addition, our clients can unilaterally decrease the amount of 8services we provide or terminate all services pursuant to the terms of our service agreements. Any loss of a significant number of clients could in the aggregate materially adversely affect our results of operations.Increases in costs that we cannot pass on to clients could affect our profitability.We negotiate many contracts under which our clients agree to pay certain costs at specified rates, including those related to: workers’ compensation; other insurance where we self-insure much of our risk; salary and salary-related expenses; and petroleum. If actual costs exceed the rates specified in the contracts, our profitability may decline unless we can negotiate increases in these rates. In addition, if our costs exceed those of our competitors, we may lose existing business unless we reduce our rates to levels that may not fully cover our costs.We have high deductibles for certain insurable risks, and therefore we are subject to volatility associated with those risks. We use a combination of insured and self-insurance programs to cover workers’ compensation, general liability, property damage, and other insurable risks. We are responsible for claims both within and in excess of our retained limits under our insurance policies, and while we endeavor to purchase insurance coverage that is appropriate to our assessment of risk, we are unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature, or magnitude of claims for direct or consequential damages. Our business may be negatively affected if our insurance proves to be inadequate or unavailable. We attempt to mitigate these risks through the implementation of company-wide safety and loss control efforts designed to decrease the incidence of events that might increase our liability. Should we be unable to renew our excess, umbrella, or other commercial insurance policies at competitive rates, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, as would the incurrence of catastrophic uninsured claims or the inability or refusal of our insurance carriers to pay otherwise insured claims. Further, to the extent that we self-insure our losses, deterioration in our loss control and/or continuing claim management efforts could increase the overall cost of claims within our retained limits. A material change in our insurance costs due to changes in the frequency of claims, the severity of the claims, the costs of excess/umbrella premiums, or regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Although we engage third-party experts to assist us in estimating appropriate insurance accounting reserves, the determination of the required reserves is dependent upon significant actuarial judgments that have a material impact on our reserves. Changes in our insurance reserves as a result of our periodic evaluations of the related liabilities may cause significant volatility in our operating results.Our restructuring initiatives may not achieve the expected cost reductions.In 2013, we realigned our infrastructure and operations by integrating our Janitorial, Facility Services, Parking, and Security segments under the Onsite Services business. Our realignment initiatives are designed to result in greater synergies from our acquisitions, achieve further integration among our Onsite Services businesses, and decrease operating expenses by streamlining functions and reducing organizational layers. Our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these initiatives within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive, and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. We incurred restructuring charges in 2014 as a result of these activities, and we expect to continue to incur such charges. Failure to achieve the expected cost reductions related to these restructuring initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Our business success depends on retaining senior management and attracting and retaining qualified personnel.Our future performance depends on the continuing services and contributions of our senior management to execute on our acquisition and organic growth strategy and to identify and pursue new opportunities. Our future success also depends, in large degree, on our continued ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Any unplanned turnover in senior management or inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could have a negative effect on our results of operations. 9We are at risk of losses stemming from accidents or other incidents at facilities in which we operate, which could cause significant damage to our reputation and financial loss.We depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for quality integrated facility solutions. Our clients’ expectations and perception of the quality of our services are in large part determined by the satisfaction they derive from contact with our managers. Any damage to our reputation may adversely affect our results of operations. The areas in which we may face risks in connection with damage to our reputation and other financial loss include, but are not limited to, the following:•Adverse publicity stemming from an accident or other incident involving our facility operations could result in a negative perception of our services and the loss of existing or potential clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.•We provide services in support of commercial aviation at airports in the United States and the United Kingdom. Our operations involve passenger assistance, such as wheelchair operations, aircraft cabin cleaning, janitorial services, shuttle bus operations, and access control. An accident or other incident involving our aviation support services could expose us to significant liability. •Although substantially all of our operations are conducted in the United States, failure by our employees, representatives, or agents, as well as by our joint venture partners, to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and similar laws in other foreign jurisdictions could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities and could result in suspension or debarment from government contracts.•We must comply with complex laws and regulations relating to the award, administration, and performance of U.S. Government contracts, and a violation of these laws and regulations could harm our reputation and result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts with the U.S. Government, or debarment from government contracts.Negative or unexpected tax consequences could adversely affect our results of operations.Adverse changes in the underlying profitability and financial outlook of our operations could lead to changes in our valuation allowances against deferred tax assets on our consolidated balance sheet, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, changes in U.S. tax laws or state tax laws in states where we have significant operations could have an adverse effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets and results of operations. We are also subject to tax audits by governmental authorities in the United States. Negative unexpected results from one or more such tax audits could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.Federal health care reform legislation may adversely affect our business and results of operations. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law in the United States (collectively, the “Health Care Reform Laws”). The Health Care Reform Laws include a large number of health-related provisions, including requiring most individuals to have health insurance and establishing new regulations on health plans. Although the Health Care Reform Laws do not mandate that employers offer health insurance, beginning in 2015, penalties will be assessed on large employers who do not offer health insurance that meets certain affordability or benefit requirements. Providing such additional health insurance benefits to our employees, or the payment of penalties if such coverage is not provided, would increase our expenses. If we are unable to raise the rates we charge our clients to cover this expense, such increases in expense could reduce our operating profit. In addition, under the Health Care Reform Laws, employers will have to file a significant amount of additional information with the Internal Revenue Service. These and other requirements related to compliance under the Health Care Reform Laws could result in increased costs, expanded liability exposure, and other changes in the ways we provide healthcare and other benefits to our employees.10Changes in energy prices and government regulations could adversely impact the results of operations of our Building & Energy Solutions business.Energy efficiency projects are designed to reduce a client’s overall consumption of commodities such as electricity and natural gas. The economic benefit to the client is impacted by volatility in the price of those commodities. Downward fluctuations in commodity prices may reduce clients’ demand for our services. This could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.We depend, in part, on federal and state legislation and policies that support energy efficiency projects. If current legislation or policies are adversely amended, eliminated, or not extended beyond their current expiration dates, or if funding for energy incentives is reduced or delayed, it could adversely affect our ability to obtain new business and thereby have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.In some instances, we offer clients guaranteed energy savings on installed equipment. In the event those guaranteed savings are not achieved, we may be required to pay liquidated or other damages.Significant delays or reductions in appropriations for our government contracts may negatively affect our business and could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. The funding of U.S. Government programs are subject to annual congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. In many situations, Congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though the contract performance period may extend over several fiscal years. Accordingly, programs are often partially funded and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. If we incur costs in excess of funds committed on a contract, we may not receive reimbursement of those costs unless additional funds are appropriated. In the event that government funding for any of the programs relating to our U.S. Government contracts is reduced or delayed, the U.S. Government could terminate or adjust our contracts or subcontracts under such program, which could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.We conduct some of our operations through joint ventures, and our ability to do business may be affected by the failure of our joint venture partners to perform their obligations.The success of our joint ventures depends, in large degree, on the satisfactory performance by our joint venture partners of their obligations, including any obligation to commit capital, equity, or credit support as required by the joint venture agreements. If a joint venture partner fails to perform its obligations as a result of financial or other difficulties or any other reason, the joint venture may be unable to perform or deliver its contracted services. In addition, we also participate in joint ventures where we are not a controlling party, and in these cases, we may have limited control over the joint venture. Any improper actions by our joint venture employees, partners, or agents could result in civil or criminal investigations, monetary and non-monetary penalties, or suspension or debarment from government contracts, and could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows as well as our reputation and ability to conduct business.Our business may be negatively affected by adverse weather conditions. Weather conditions, including fluctuations in temperatures, snow storms, heavy flooding, hurricanes, and natural disasters, can negatively impact portions of our business. Within our Building & Energy Solutions segment, adverse weather conditions, particularly during the winter season, could impact our construction services as those conditions affect our ability to efficiently perform work outdoors. Within the Parking segment, snow can lead to reduced levels of travel, as well as increases in certain costs of parking services, such as snow removal, both of which negatively affect gross profit. On the other hand, the absence of snow during the winter could cause us to experience reduced revenues in our Janitorial segment. Cooler than normal temperatures during the summer months could reduce the need for our Building & Energy Solutions services, particularly in our businesses that provide or service air conditioning units, and result in reduced revenues and profitability during the period such unseasonal weather conditions persist. We are subject to business continuity risks associated with centralization of certain administrative functions.Certain administrative functions, primarily in North America, have been regionally centralized to improve efficiency and reduce costs. To the extent these central locations are disrupted or disabled for a long period of time due to crisis, natural disaster, or other business interruption, key business processes, such as accounts payable, information technology, payroll, and general management operations, could be interrupted.11Our services in areas of military conflict expose us to additional risks. Although substantially all of our operations are conducted in the United States, the services we provide internationally, including through the use of subcontractors, are sometimes in areas of military conflict or at military installations, which increases the risk of a situation causing injury or loss of life to our employees, subcontractors, or other third parties. In addition to the human costs, this could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows and our ability to conduct business. We are subject to cyber-security risks arising out of breaches of security relating to sensitive company, client, and employee information and to the technology that manages our operations and other business processes.Our business operations rely upon secure information technology systems for data capture, processing, storage, and reporting. Notwithstanding careful security and controls design, our information technology systems and those of our third-party providers could become subject to cyber attacks. Network, system, application, and data breaches could result in operational disruptions or information misappropriation, including, but not limited to, interruptions to systems availability and denial of access to and misuse of applications required by our clients to conduct business with us. Theft of intellectual property or trade secrets and inappropriate disclosure of confidential information could stem from such incidents. Any such operational disruption and/or misappropriation of information could result in lost sales, negative publicity, or business delays and could have a material adverse effect on our business.Risks Related to Market and Economic ConditionsA decline in commercial office building occupancy and rental rates could affect our revenues and profitability. Our revenues are affected by commercial real estate occupancy levels. In certain geographic areas and service lines, our most profitable revenues come from what is known as tag work. These services are performed for tenants in buildings in which we perform building services for the property owner or management company. A decline in occupancy rates could result in a decline in scope of work, including tag work, and depressed prices for our services. If this were to occur, we could experience lower revenues and pricing pressures resulting in lower margins. Additionally, adverse changes in occupancy rates may further reduce demand, depress prices for our services, and cause our clients to cancel their service agreements with us. This could reduce earnings and adversely affect our business and results of operations.Deterioration in general economic conditions could reduce the demand for facility services and, as a result, reduce our earnings and adversely affect our financial condition. Slow domestic and international economic growth or other negative changes in global, national, and local economic conditions could have a negative impact on our business. Specifically, adverse economic conditions may result in clients cutting back on discretionary spending, such as tag work. Additionally, since a significant portion of our aviation services and parking revenues are tied to the numbers of airline passengers, hotel guests, and sports arenas attendees, results for these businesses could be adversely affected by curtailment of business or personal travel and cutbacks in discretionary spending.Financial difficulties or bankruptcy of one or more of our clients could adversely affect our results. Future revenues and our ability to collect accounts receivable depend, in part, on the financial strength of our clients. We estimate an allowance for accounts receivable that we do not consider collectible. This allowance adversely impacts our profitability. In the event clients experience financial difficulty and, in particular, if bankruptcy results, our profitability could be further impacted by a failure to collect accounts receivable in excess of the estimated allowance. Declines in our ability to collect receivables or in the level of client spending could adversely affect our results of operations and our liquidity. We incur accounting and other control costs that reduce profitability. As a publicly traded corporation, we incur certain costs to comply with regulatory requirements. If regulatory requirements were to become more stringent or if accounting or other controls thought to be effective later fail, we may be forced to make additional expenditures, the amounts of which could be material. Most of our competitors are privately owned, so our accounting and control costs can be a competitive disadvantage. 12Risks Relating to Indebtedness and Impairment ChargesAny future increase in the level of our debt or in interest rates could affect our results of operations. Any future increase in the level of our debt will likely increase our interest expense. Unless the operating income associated with the use of these funds exceeds the debt expense, borrowing money could have an adverse impact on our results. In addition, incurring debt requires that a portion of cash flow from operating activities be dedicated to interest payments and principal payments, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund operations and capital expenditures or to capitalize on future business opportunities. Because current interest rates on our debt are variable, an increase in prevailing rates would increase our interest costs. Further, our credit facility agreement contains both financial covenants and other covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified transactions, which may also constrain our flexibility.Our ability to operate and pay our debt obligations depends upon our access to cash. Because we conduct business operations through operating subsidiaries, we depend on those entities to generate the funds necessary to meet financial obligations. Delays in collections, which could be heightened by disruption in the credit markets and the financial services industry, or legal restrictions could restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or loans to us. The earnings from, or available assets of, these operating subsidiaries may not be sufficient to fund operations. If this were to occur, we could become unable to make distributions to pay interest on our debt obligations when due or to pay the principal of such debt. In addition, we have standby letters of credit and insurance deposits that represent amounts collateralizing self-insurance claims that we cannot access for operations. Goodwill impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Goodwill represents the excess purchase price of acquired businesses over the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. We have elected to make the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter, August 1st, the annual impairment assessment date for goodwill. However, we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to the required annual assessment if we experience a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, or sale or disposition of a significant portion of one of our businesses. If the fair value of one of our businesses is less than its carrying amount, we could be required to record an impairment charge. The valuation of the businesses requires judgment in evaluating, among other things, recent indications of market activity and estimates of future cash flows, discount rates, and other factors. In making these judgments, we evaluate the financial health of our business, including such factors as market performance, changes in our client base, and operating cash flows. The amount of any impairment could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken.Impairment of long-lived assets may adversely affect our operating results.We review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. These events and circumstances include, but are not limited to, a current expectation that a long-lived asset will be disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life, a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which we use a long-lived asset, or a change in its physical condition. When such events or changes in circumstances occur, a recoverability test is performed comparing projected undiscounted cash flows from the use and eventual disposition of an asset or asset group to its carrying amount. If the projected undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying amount, an impairment is recorded for the excess of the carrying amount over the estimated fair value. The amount of any impairment could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken.Risks Related to Labor and Legal Proceedings We are defendants in class and representative actions and other lawsuits alleging various claims that could cause us to incur substantial liabilities. Our business involves employing tens of thousands of employees, many of whom work at our clients’ facilities. We incur risks relating to our employment of these workers, including, but not limited to: claims of misconduct or negligence on the part of our employees; claims by our employees of discrimination or harassment directed at them, including claims relating to actions of our clients; claims related to the employment of undocumented workers or unlicensed personnel; and claims for violations of wage and hour requirements. Some or all of these claims may lead 13to litigation, including class action litigation, and these matters may cause us to incur negative publicity with respect to these problems. Our insurance will not cover all claims that may be asserted against us. In addition, it is not possible to predict the outcome of these lawsuits or any other proceeding to which we may be subject. These lawsuits and other proceedings may consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the lawsuits and other proceedings. An unfavorable outcome with respect to these lawsuits and any future lawsuits could, individually or in the aggregate, cause us to incur substantial liabilities that could have a material adverse effect upon our business, reputation, financial condition, or results of operations. Changes in immigration laws or enforcement actions or investigations under such laws could significantly adversely affect our labor force, operations, and financial results. As many of our jobs do not require our employees to be able to read or write the English language, we are an attractive employer for recent émigrés to this country. While immigration laws require us to take certain steps intended to confirm the legal status of our immigrant labor force, and while we bolster these steps with additional measures designed to reinforce compliance, we may nonetheless inadvertently employ workers who are or become undocumented. Violations of laws and regulations could subject us to substantial fines and penalties. To the extent that these laws and regulations and corresponding enforcement practices and compliance standards become more stringent, our payroll expenses could be negatively impacted. Labor disputes could lead to loss of revenues or expense variations. At October 31, 2014, approximately 50% of our employees were subject to various local collective bargaining agreements, some of which will expire or become subject to renegotiation during 2015. In addition, at any given time we may face a number of union organizing drives. When one or more of our major collective bargaining agreements becomes subject to renegotiation or when we face union organizing drives, we and the union may disagree on important issues that could lead to a strike, work slowdown, or other job actions at one or more of our locations. In a market where we and a number of major competitors are unionized, but other competitors are not unionized, we could lose clients to competitors who are not unionized. A strike, work slowdown, or other job action could in some cases disrupt us from providing services, resulting in reduced revenues. If declines in client service occur or if our clients are targeted for sympathy strikes by other unionized workers, contract cancellations could result. Moreover, negotiating a first time agreement or renegotiating an existing collective bargaining agreement could result in a substantial increase in labor and benefits expenses that we may be unable to pass through to clients.We participate in multiemployer pension plans that under certain circumstances could result in material liabilities being incurred. We participate in various multiemployer pension plans under union and industry-wide agreements that generally provide defined pension benefits to employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Because of the nature of multiemployer plans, there are risks associated with participation in these plans that differ from single-employer plans. Assets contributed by an employer to a multiemployer plan are not segregated into a separate account and are not restricted to provide benefits only to employees of that contributing employer. In the event another participating employer in a multiemployer plan no longer contributes to the plan, the unfunded obligations of the plan may be borne by the remaining participating employers, including us. In the event of the termination of a multiemployer pension plan or if we withdraw from a multiemployer pension plan, under applicable law we potentially could incur material liabilities. We further discuss our participation in multiemployer pension and postretirement plans in Note 11, “Employee Benefit Plans,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.OtherDisasters or acts of terrorism could disrupt services. Storms, earthquakes, drought, floods, other disasters, or acts of terrorism may result in reduced revenues or property damage. Disasters may also cause economic dislocations throughout the country. In addition, disasters or acts of terrorism may increase the volatility of financial results, either due to increased costs caused by the disaster with partial or no corresponding compensation from clients or to increased revenues and profitability related to tag jobs, special projects, and other higher margin work necessitated by the disaster.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.None. 14