Item 1A Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as described below. However, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we may currently deem immaterial, may become important factors that harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. Natural gas and crude oil prices are volatile, and a substantial or extended decline in prices would hurt our profitability and financial condition. Our revenues, operating results, cash flows, profitability, future rate of growth and the carrying value of our oil and gas properties depend heavily on prevailing market prices for natural gas and crude oil. Historically, natural gas and crude oil prices have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in natural gas and crude oil prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market demand and other factors that are beyond our control, including: • domestic and foreign supplies of oil, natural gas and NGLs; • political and economic conditions in oil or gas producing regions; • overall domestic and foreign economic conditions; • prices and availability of and demand for, alternative fuels; • the availability of transportation facilities; • weather conditions; and • domestic and foreign governmental regulation. Some of our projections and estimates are based on assumptions as to the future prices of natural gas and crude oil. These price assumptions are used for planning purposes. We expect our assumptions will change over time and that actual prices in the future will likely differ from our estimates. Any substantial or extended decline in the actual prices of natural gas or crude oil would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations (including reduced cash flows and borrowing capacity and possible asset impairment), the quantities of natural gas and crude oil reserves that we can economically produce, the quantity of estimated proved reserves that may be attributed to our properties and our ability to fund our capital program. Our future performance depends on our ability to find or acquire additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Unless we successfully replace the reserves that we produce, our reserves will decline, eventually resulting in a decrease in oil and gas production and lower revenues and cash flows from operations. We have historically succeeded in substantially replacing reserves primarily through exploration and development and, to a lesser extent, acquisitions. We have conducted such activities on our existing oil and gas properties as well as on newly acquired properties. We may not be able to continue to replace reserves from such activities at acceptable costs. The currently depressed oil and gas prices may further limit the types of reserves that can be developed at acceptable costs. Lower prices also decrease our cash flows and may cause us to reduce capital expenditures. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive. We may not be able to make the necessary capital investments to maintain or expand our oil and gas reserves if cash flows from operations are reduced and external sources of capital remain limited or unavailable due to the deterioration of the global economy, including financial and credit markets. In addition, exploration and development activities involve numerous risks that may result in dry holes, the failure to produce oil and gas in commercial quantities and the inability to fully produce discovered reserves. We are continually identifying and evaluating acquisition opportunities. However, competition for producing oil and gas properties is intense and many of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than those available to us. In the event we are successful in completing an acquisition, we cannot ensure that such acquisition will consist of properties that contain economically recoverable reserves or that such acquisition will be profitably integrated into our operations. We may not be able to fund our planned capital expenditures. We make, and will continue to make, substantial capital expenditures to find, acquire, develop, exploit and produce oil and natural gas reserves. In 2011, we anticipate making capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, of approximately $320 million. If oil and gas prices decrease or we encounter operating difficulties that result in our cash flow from operations being less than expected, we may have to reduce the capital we can spend unless we have borrowing capacity under the Revolver, or we can raise additional funds through debt or equity financing. 9 Future cash flows and the availability of financing will also be subject to a number of variables, such as our success in locating and producing new reserves, the level of production from existing wells and prices of oil and natural gas. If our revenues were to decrease due to lower oil and natural gas prices, decreased production or other reasons, and if we could not obtain capital through the Revolver, or otherwise on acceptable terms, our ability to execute our development plans, replace our reserves or maintain production levels could be greatly limited. Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. Oil and gas drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive natural gas or oil reserves will be found. The costs of drilling, completing and operating wells are often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • costs of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs, equipment and materials; • shortages in experienced labor; • failure to secure necessary regulatory approvals and permits; • title problems; • fires, explosions, blow-outs and surface cratering; and • adverse weather conditions. The prevailing prices of oil and gas also affect the cost of and the demand for drilling rigs, production equipment and related services. The availability of drilling rigs can vary significantly from region to region at any particular time. Although land drilling rigs can be moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of demand, an undersupply of rigs in any region may result in drilling delays and higher drilling costs for the rigs that are available in that region. The wells we drill may not be productive and we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in such wells. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that natural gas or oil is present or may be produced economically. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Drilling activities can result in dry wells or wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues after operating and other costs to cover initial drilling costs. Our future drilling activities may not be successful, nor can we be sure that our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate within a particular area will not decline. Unsuccessful drilling activities could have a material adverse effect on our business results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Also, we may not be able to obtain any options or lease rights in potential drilling locations that we identify. Although we have identified numerous potential drilling locations, we may not be able to economically produce oil or natural gas from all of them. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and joint interest partners, and nonpayment or nonperformance by these parties would reduce our cash flows. We are subject to risk from loss resulting from our customers’ and joint interest partners’ nonperformance or nonpayment. We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of revenues. In 2010, 59% of our total consolidated product revenues resulted from four of our customers. Any nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers would reduce our cash flows. 10 Our business involves many operating risks that may result in substantial losses for which insurance may be unavailable or inadequate. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with the exploitation, development and exploration for and the production and transportation of oil and natural gas. These operating risks include: • fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering and casing collapses; • formations with abnormal pressures; • pipeline ruptures or spills; • uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids; • environmental hazards such as natural gas leaks, oil spills and discharges of toxic gases; and • natural disasters. Any of these risks could result in substantial losses resulting from injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution and other environmental damages, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. In addition, under certain circumstances, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by previous owners or operators of properties that we own, lease or operate. As a result, we may incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities, which could reduce or eliminate funds available for exploration, development or acquisitions or cause us to incur losses. In accordance with industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be adequate to cover losses or liabilities. Also, we cannot predict the continued availability of insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase. No assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. The occurrence of a significant event, not fully insured or indemnified against, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our business depends on transportation facilities owned by others. We deliver substantially all of our oil and natural gas production through pipelines that we do not own. The marketability of our production depends upon the availability, proximity and capacity of these pipelines as well as gathering systems and processing facilities. The unavailability or lack of available capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Federal, state and local regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and market our oil and natural gas. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are not precise. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved oil and gas reserves and the estimated future net cash flows from such reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. This process requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. These estimates are dependent on many variables and, therefore, changes often occur as these variables evolve and commodity prices fluctuate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. Actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves will most likely vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves disclosed by us. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. At December 31, 2010, approximately 47% of our estimated proved reserves were proved undeveloped. Estimation of proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed non-producing reserves is based on volumetric calculations and adjacent reserve performance data. Recovery of proved undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. Production revenues from proved developed non-producing reserves will not be realized until some time in the future. The reserve data assumes that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop our reserves. Although we have prepared estimates of our reserves and the costs associated with these reserves in accordance with industry standards, these estimated costs may not be accurate, development may not occur as scheduled and actual results may not occur as estimated. You should not assume that the present value of estimated future net cash flows (standardized measure) referred to herein is the current fair value of our estimated oil and gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual current and future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. As a result, net present value estimates using actual prices and costs may be significantly less than the SEC estimate that is provided herein. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most accurate discount factor for us. 11 We may record impairment losses on our oil and gas properties. Quantities of proved reserves are estimated based on economic conditions in existence in the period of assessment. Lower oil and gas prices may have the impact of shortening the economic lives on certain fields because it becomes uneconomic to produce all recoverable reserves on such fields, thus reducing proved property reserve estimates. If such revisions in the estimated quantities of proved reserves occur, it will have the effect of increasing the rates of depreciation, depletion and amortization, or DD&A, on the affected properties, which would decrease earnings or result in losses through higher DD&A expense. The revisions may also be sufficient enough to cause impairment losses on certain properties that would result in a further non-cash charge to reported earnings. GAAP requires that the carrying value of oil and gas properties be reviewed on a periodic basis for possible impairment. An impairment charge is recognized when the carrying value of oil and gas properties is greater than the undiscounted future net cash flows attributable to the property. In addition to revisions to reserves and the impact of lower commodity prices, impairments may occur due to increases in estimated operating and development costs. During the past several years, we have been required to impair certain of our oil and gas properties and related assets. If natural gas, crude oil and NGL prices decline or we drill uneconomic wells, it is reasonably possible that we will have to record a significant impairment in the future. While an impairment charge reflects our ability to recover the carrying value of our investments, it does not impact our cash flows from operating activities. We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate. In 2010, other companies operated approximately 27% of our net production. Our success in properties operated by others will depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including timing and amount of capital expenditures, the operator’s expertise and financial resources, approval of other participants in drilling wells, selection of technology and maintenance of safety and environmental standards. We have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of these non-operated properties or the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund for their operation. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence or control the operation and future development of these properties could have a material adverse effect on the realization of our targeted returns or lead to unexpected future costs. Certain working interest owners in our properties have the right to control the timing of drilling activities on our properties under certain circumstances. Under certain circumstances, certain of the other working interest owners in our properties have the right to limit the amount of drilling activities that can take place on our properties at any given time. If these working interest owners chose to exercise this right, we could be required to scale back anticipated drilling activities on the affected properties. In such an event, production from the affected properties would be deferred, thereby decreasing production from the properties in the short-term. Our producing property acquisitions carry significant risks. Acquisition of producing oil and gas properties is a key element of maintaining and growing reserves and production. Competition for these assets has been and will continue to be intense. In the event we do complete an acquisition, its success will depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include the purchase price, future oil and gas prices, the ability to reasonably estimate or assess the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net revenues attainable from reserves, future operating and capital costs, results of future exploration, exploitation and development activities on the acquired properties and future abandonment and possible future environmental or other liabilities. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves, actual future production rates and associated costs and potential liabilities with respect to prospective acquisition targets. Actual results may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates. A customary review of subject properties will not necessarily reveal all existing or potential problems. Additionally, significant acquisitions can change the nature of our operations and business depending upon the character of the acquired properties if they have substantially different operating and geological characteristics or are in different geographic locations than our existing properties. To the extent that acquired properties are substantially different than our existing properties, our ability to efficiently realize the expected economic benefits of such transactions may be limited. Integrating acquired businesses and properties involves a number of special risks. These risks include the possibility that management may be distracted from regular business concerns by the need to integrate operations and systems and that unforeseen difficulties can arise in integrating operations and systems and in retaining and assimilating employees. Any of these or other similar risks could lead to potential adverse short-term or long-term effects on our operating results, and may cause us to not be able to realize any or all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. 12 Derivative transactions may limit our potential gains and involve other risks. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the sale of our oil and natural gas, we periodically enter into oil and gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. Our hedges are limited in duration, usually for periods of two years or less. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile oil and natural gas prices, such transactions may limit our potential gains if oil or natural gas prices were to rise over the price established by the hedging arrangements. In trying to maintain an appropriate balance, we may end up hedging too much or too little, depending upon how oil or natural gas prices fluctuate in the future. In addition, derivative transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • our production is less than expected; • there is a widening of price basis differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; • the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or • a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts oil or natural gas prices. In addition, derivative instruments involve basis risk. Basis risk in a derivative contract occurs when the index upon which the contract is based is more or less variable than the index upon which the hedged asset is based, thereby making the hedge less effective. For example, a NYMEX index used for hedging certain volumes of production may have more or less variability than the regional price index used for the sale of that production. We are subject to complex laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Exploration, development, production and sale of oil and gas are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including complex environmental laws. Future laws or regulations, any adverse changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or a failure to comply with existing legal requirements may harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with environmental and other governmental regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the suspension or termination of operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties, environmental protection and taxation. Our operations create the risk of environmental liabilities to the government or third parties for any unlawful discharge of oil, gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water. In the event of environmental violations, we may be charged with remedial costs. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become more stringent in recent years, and may, in some circumstances, result in liability for environmental damage regardless of negligence or fault. In addition, pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. These liabilities and costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Item 1, “Business—Government Regulation and Environmental Matters.” The recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the U.S. Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The U.S. Congress adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The new legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Act, was signed into law on July 21, 2010 and requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment. In its rulemaking under the Act, the CFTC has proposed regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions or positions would be exempt from these position limits. It is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will finalize these regulations. The financial reform legislation may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks that we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition and our results of operations. 13 Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of proposed legislation. Legislation has been proposed in the U.S. Congress that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to U.S. federal income tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities and an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of this legislation or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development, and any such change could have a material adverse effect on us. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments We have received no written SEC staff comments regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act which were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2010 fiscal year that remain unresolved. 14 