ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THE SUPERMARKET INDUSTRY IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY, OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE MATERIALLY AFFECTED. The supermarket industry is highly competitive and characterized by high inventory turnover, high capital intensity and narrow profit margins. The number and type of competitors vary by location and include: o multi-regional and regional supermarket chains; o independent and specialty grocers; o drug and convenience stores; and o "alternative format" food stores, such as specialty food stores, retail drug stores, national general merchandisers and discount retailers, membership clubs, warehouse stores and supercenters. We also face increasing competition from restaurants and fast food chains due to the increasing proportion of household food expenditures for food prepared outside the home. In addition, certain of our stores also compete with local video stores, florists, book stores, pharmacies and gas stations. Our principal competitors include national and regional supermarket chains, which compete with us on the basis of location, quality of products, service, price, product variety and store condition. An overall lack of inflation in food prices and increasingly competitive markets has made it difficult generally for grocery store operators to achieve comparable store sales gains. Because sales growth has been difficult to attain, our competitors have attempted to maintain market share through increased levels of promotional activities and discount pricing, creating a more difficult environment in which to consistently increase year-over-year sales gains. In addition, most of our "traditional" and "nontraditional" competitors are not unionized and have lower labor costs, which allows them to take measures that could adversely affect our competitive position. We face increased competitive pressure in all of our markets from existing competitors and from the threatened entry by one or more major new competitors. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and have less indebtedness than us, and could use these resources to take measures which could adversely affect our competitive position. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected by competitive factors, including product mix and pricing changes that may be made in response to competition from existing or new competitors. From time to time, the relative strength of our competitors changes depending on prevailing market conditions. -14- OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS MAY BE SENSITIVE TO ECONOMIC CONDITIONS THAT IMPACT CONSUMER SPENDING. Our business and results of operations may be sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Future economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment levels, energy prices, business conditions, interest rates and tax rates could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending away from our product quality and service offering, to a more focused price-based offering. A general reduction in the level of discretionary spending or shifts in consumer discretionary spending to our competitors could adversely affect our growth and profitability. WE MAY EXPERIENCE SIGNIFICANT FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR COMPARABLE STORE SALES. Our comparable store sales in the future could fluctuate or be lower than our historical average for many reasons, including increased competition, price changes in response to competitive factors, shifts in demographic patterns and local economic conditions, changes in traffic patterns and possible supply shortages. Our results of operations may be materially impacted by fluctuations in our comparable store sales as it becomes more difficult to leverage expenses at a lower level of sales. OUR STORES ARE CONCENTRATED IN THE NORTHEASTERN UNITED STATES, MAKING US SUSCEPTIBLE TO ECONOMIC DOWNTURNS, NATURAL DISASTERS AND OTHER ADVERSE CONDITIONS OR CATASTROPHIC EVENTS IN THAT REGION. Our stores are located in Pennsylvania, upstate New York, Vermont and New Hampshire. As a result, we are vulnerable to economic downturns in those areas, in addition to those that may affect the country as a whole, as well as natural and other catastrophic and terrorist events that may impact these regions. In addition, we may be adversely affected by these events to a greater extent than our competitors whose operations extend outside of these regions. These events may adversely affect our sales, which may lead to lower earnings, or even losses, and may also adversely affect our future growth and expansion. -15- OUR DISTRIBUTION AND BAKERY BUSINESS COULD BE NEGATIVELY AFFECTED IF WE FAIL TO RETAIN EXISTING CUSTOMERS OR ATTRACT SIGNIFICANT NUMBERS OF NEW CUSTOMERS. Increasing the growth and profitability of our distribution and bakery business is dependent in large measure upon our ability to retain existing customers and capture additional customers through our existing network of distribution centers, enabling us to more effectively utilize the fixed assets in our distribution and bakery businesses. Our ability to achieve these goals is dependent, in part, upon our ability to continue to provide a high level of customer service, offer competitive products at low prices, maintain high levels of productivity and efficiency, particularly in the process of integrating new customers into our distribution system and manufacturing process, and offer marketing, merchandising and ancillary services that provide value to our independent distribution customers. If we are unable to execute these tasks effectively and at a competitive price, we may not be able to attract significant numbers of new customers and attrition among our existing customer base could increase, either or both of which could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. CHANGES IN VENDOR PROMOTIONS OR ALLOWANCES, INCLUDING THE WAY VENDORS TARGET THEIR PROMOTIONAL SPENDING, AND OUR ABILITY TO EFFECTIVELY MANAGE THESE PROGRAMS COULD SIGNIFICANTLY IMPACT OUR MARGINS AND PROFITABILITY. We engage in a wide variety of promotional programs cooperatively with our vendors. The nature of these programs and the allocation of funds among them evolve over time as the parties assess the results of specific promotions and plan for future promotions. These programs require careful management in order for us to maintain or improve margins while at the same time increasing sales for us and for our participating vendors. A reduction in overall promotional spending or a shift in promotional spending away from certain types of promotions that we have historically utilized could have a significant impact on our gross profit margin and profitability. Our ability to anticipate and react to changes in promotional spending by, among other things, planning and implementing alternative programs that are expected to be mutually beneficial to our vendors and us, will be an important factor in maintaining or improving margins and profitability. If we are unable to effectively manage these programs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. -16- OUR DEBT INSTRUMENTS INCLUDE FINANCIAL AND OTHER COVENANTS THAT MAY LIMIT OUR OPERATING FLEXIBILITY AND THAT MAY AFFECT OUR FUTURE BUSINESS STRATEGIES AND OPERATING RESULTS. Covenants in the documents governing our outstanding or future debt, including our credit facilities, or our future debt levels, could limit our operating and financial flexibility. Our ability to respond to market conditions and opportunities as well as capital needs could be constrained by the degree to which we are leveraged, by changes in our availability or cost of capital, and by contractual limitations on the degree to which we may, without the consent of our lenders, take actions such as engaging in mergers, acquisitions or divestitures, incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures, rationalizing underperforming assets and making investments, loans or advances. If needs or opportunities were identified that would require additional financial resources, obtaining those additional resources could increase our borrowing costs, further reduce financial flexibility, require alterations in our strategies and affect future operating results. SUBSTANTIAL OPERATING LOSSES MAY OCCUR IF THE CUSTOMERS TO WHOM WE EXTEND CREDIT OR FOR WHOM WE GUARANTEE LOAN OR LEASE OBLIGATIONS FAIL TO REPAY US. In the ordinary course of business, we extend credit, including loans, to our food distribution customers. We also sublease store sites to independent retailers. Generally, our loans and other financial accommodations are extended to small businesses that are unrated and may have limited access to conventional financing. As of January 28, 2006 we had loans, net of reserves, of $0.3 million outstanding to two of our food distribution customers and lease obligations for properties sublet to food distribution customers totaling $8.3 million. In the normal course of business, we also sublease retail properties to third parties. While we seek to obtain security interests and other credit support in connection with the financial accommodations we extend, such collateral may not be sufficient to cover our exposure. If a significant number of these customers or lease counterparties fail to repay us or honor their lease obligations to us, our operating results may be adversely affected. -17- A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR EMPLOYEES ARE UNIONIZED, AND OUR RELATIONSHIPS WITH UNIONS, INCLUDING LABOR DISPUTES OR WORK STOPPAGES, COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. We are party to approximately 18 collective bargaining agreements, of which seven were scheduled to expire in fiscal year 2006, and all seven have been renewed. These expiring agreements covered approximately 71% of our union employees. In future negotiations with labor unions, we expect that rising health care, pension and employee benefit costs, among other issues, will be important topics for negotiation. Upon the expiration of such collective bargaining agreements, our inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with labor unions could result in strikes by the affected workers and thereby significantly disrupt our operations. Further, if we are unable to control health care and pension costs provided for in the collective bargaining agreements, we may experience increased operating costs and an adverse impact on future operating results. WE MAY EXPERIENCE TECHNOLOGY FAILURES WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. We use large, complex information technology systems that are important to our business operations. Although we have a disaster-recovery plan and have installed security programs and procedures, the security of our technology systems could be compromised and technology failures and system disruptions could occur. Any of these events could result in a loss of sales or profits or cause us to incur significant costs, including payments to third parties for damages. -18- LOSSES AS A RESULT OF OUR OWNING, LEASING AND DEVELOPING REAL ESTATE MAY IMPAIR OUR ABILITY TO FOCUS ON AND EXPAND OUR CORE BUSINESS AS DESIRED. As a result of our real estate holdings and leases, we are subject to varying degrees of risk and liability generally incident to the ownership, use and development of real estate. These risks and liabilities include, among other things: o fluctuations in value caused by adverse changes in national, regional and local economic condition and local real estate market conditions (such as an oversupply of or a reduction in demand for retail space in the area); o costs of compliance with zoning, environmental, tax and other laws and regulations; o real estate development risks, such as incorrect cost and occupancy estimates, non-availability of financing and the need for mortgage lender or property partner approvals for certain expansion activities; o the perceptions of customers and tenants and prospective tenants of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of our properties; o the lack of liquidity of real estate investments and our ability to sell, lease or sublease any of our properties for cash in a timely fashion; o failure to promptly renew leases; o competition from comparable properties; o the occupancy rate of our properties; o tenant and subtenant defaults and the costs of enforcing our rights; o the effects of any bankruptcies or solvencies of major tenants or subtenants; o increasing operating costs (including increased real estate taxes) which may not be passed through fully to tenants or subtenants; and o fluctuations in mortgage interest and lease rates. A failure to adequately manage these risks and liabilities could adversely affect our revenues, profits and available cash and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Several portions of our properties are mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness outstanding under our credit facilities. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations, we could sustain losses as a result of foreclosures on the properties by our lenders. In addition, if it becomes necessary or desirable for us to dispose of one or more of the mortgaged properties, we might not be able to obtain a release of the lien on such mortgaged properties without payment of the associated debt. The foreclosure of a mortgage or default of a loan on a property or the inability to sell a property could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. These considerations could make it difficult for us to sell properties, even if a sale were in our best interests. -19- We maintain property insurance, difference in conditions insurance, national flood insurance (where applicable), general liability insurance, directors' and officers' insurance and excess insurance coverage. At leased and mortgaged locations we maintain any of these lines of coverage that we are contractually obligated to maintain. At owned locations we maintain all of these lines of coverage. We maintain large deductibles and/or large layers of self-insurance on several of these lines of coverage. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to zoning, land use, environmental protection, work place safety, public health, beer and wine sales and pharmaceutical sales. A number of states and local jurisdictions regulate the licensing of supermarkets, including beer license grants. In addition, under certain local regulations, we are prohibited from selling beer in certain of our stores. WE ARE AFFECTED BY FLUCTUATING UTILITY AND FUEL COSTS. Fluctuating fuel costs adversely affect our operating costs for our fleet of tractors and trailers that distribute goods from our warehouses and distribution facilities to all of our stores. We may not be able to recover these rising utility and fuel costs through increased prices charged to our customers. WE MAY BE HELD LIABLE FOR ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGES WITH REGARD TO OUR CURRENT AND FORMER PROPERTIES, REGARDLESS OF THE LAWFULNESS OF OUR ACTIVITIES ON SUCH PROPERTIES. Our operations subject us to various laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous materials and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Under some environmental laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, also known as CERCLA or the Superfund law, and similar state statutes, responsibility for the entire cost of cleanup of a contaminated site can be imposed upon any current or former site owners or operators, or upon any party who sent waste to the site, regardless of the lawfulness of the original activities that led to the contamination. From time to time we have been named as one of many potentially responsible parties at Superfund sites, although to date our share of liability has typically been small. We believe we are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental requirements. However, future developments such as more aggressive enforcement policies, new laws or discovery of unknown conditions may require expenditures that may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. -20- CUSTOMER CONCERNS REGARDING FOOD SAFETY MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. We could be adversely affected if our customers lose confidence in the quality and safety of certain products in our stores. Negative publicity regarding these concerns, whether valid or not, may discourage customers from buying our products. Any loss of confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. As such, any issue regarding the safety of our products could have a substantial and adverse effect on our operations. OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE IMPACTED BY VARIABILITY IN SELF-INSURANCE LIABILITY ESTIMATES. We are self-insured for workers' compensation and general liability claims up to set retention amounts, after which we maintain excess insurance coverage. Liabilities are maintained based on independent actuarial estimates of aggregate liability claims incurred and an estimate for incurred but not reported claims. Our insurance accruals reflect certain actuarial assumptions and management judgments that are made based on factors that are subject to change. Any significant variation in these factors could cause a material change in our self-insurance liabilities and our operating results. WE HAVE NOT RECENTLY FILED PERIODIC REPORTS WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION. We did not complete an audit for the periods between February 1, 2003 through April 16, 2005. Additionally, we have not made any required periodic filings with the SEC for any period since our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2002 and our most recent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended November 2, 2002. Because of our failure to make timely periodic filings with the SEC, we could be subject to civil penalties and other administrative proceedings by the SEC. In addition, until we have completed such updated filings, it is unlikely that our common shares will be approved for listing on any national securities exchange. The failure of our common shares to be so listed may adversely affect their liquidity and trading price. WE HAVE NOT RECENTLY FILED LOCAL, STATE OR FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURNS WITH THE APPROPRIATE GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITIES. As a result of our inability to definitively determine our taxable income, and as a result of our operating losses over the years, we have not filed any of our federal, state or local income tax returns following fiscal year 2003. In addition, we have not made any estimated tax payments during that period. Because of our failure to file timely annual income tax returns with the appropriate local authorities, we could be subject to failure to file penalties, as well as other penalties. -21- THERE IS NO EXISTING TRADING MARKET FOR OUR COMMON STOCK. Our common shares are currently quoted on the Pink Sheets and there is no assurance that an active trading market for our common shares will develop. We are not currently applying for a listing on any national securities exchange. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that a holder of common shares will be able to sell such securities in the future or as to the price at which any such sale would occur. If a trading market were to develop, the liquidity of the market for such securities and the prices at which such securities would trade will depend upon many factors, including the number of holders, investor expectations and other factors beyond our control. In addition, our common shares have been issued to certain pre-petition creditors as part of our plan of reorganization. Some of these holders may prefer to liquidate their investment rather than to hold it on a long-term basis, which may create an initial imbalance in the market if and when one were to develop. THE RESULTS OF THE ONGOING GOVERNMENTAL INVESTIGATIONS REGARDING OUR PROMOTIONAL ALLOWANCE PRACTICES AND POLICIES MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON US. We are currently the subject of ongoing investigations by the United States Attorney's Office for the Northern District of New York and by the SEC regarding our promotional allowance practices and policies. These investigations began prior to our emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in April 2005. We are cooperating with these investigations and have produced documents and made our employees available for interviews as requested. At present, we are unable to predict the outcome of either of these investigations. However, an unfavorable resolution of these investigations could ultimately result in damage claims, fines or penalties to us. Any such claims, fines or penalties could adversely affect our business or results of operations. OUR DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES WERE INEFFECTIVE AS OF JANUARY 28, 2006, AND THESE WEAKNESSES COULD HAVE A MATERIALLY ADVERSE EFFECT ON US. As discussed in more detail in Item 9A. below, as a result of changes in our financial condition and operations immediately preceding, during and after our reorganization under Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, including the appointment of our current President and Chief Executive Officer to such position on December 12, 2006 and our current Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to such position on May 9, 2007 and other changes in our senior management and our external auditors, as well as our failure to make periodic reports on a timely basis to the SEC during such periods, our present management has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of January 28, 2006 in providing reasonable assurance that material information requiring disclosure was brought to management's attention on a timely basis and that our financial reporting was reliable. As discussed in more detail in Item 9A. below, our current management has taken steps to correct deficiencies and weaknesses in our disclosure controls and procedures. However, it is probable that we may not be able to remediate all deficiencies and weaknesses before the conclusion of fiscal year 2008. -22- 