Item 1A Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as described below. However, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we may currently deem immaterial, may become important factors that harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. Crude oil, NGL and natural gas prices are volatile, and a substantial or extended decline in prices would hurt our profitability and financial condition.Our revenues, operating results, cash flows, profitability, future rate of growth and the carrying value of our oil and gas properties depend heavily on prevailing market prices for crude oil, NGLs and natural gas. Historically, crude oil, NGL and natural gas prices have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Even relatively modest drops in prices can affect significantly our financial results and impede our growth. Wide fluctuations in crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market demand and other factors that are beyond our control, including: •domestic and foreign supplies of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas;•domestic and foreign consumer demand for oil and natural gas;•political and economic conditions in oil or gas producing regions;•overall domestic and foreign economic conditions;•prices and availability of, and demand for, alternative fuels;•the availability of gathering, processing and transportation facilities;•weather conditions; and•domestic and foreign governmental regulation.Many of our projections and estimates are based on assumptions as to the future prices of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas. These price assumptions are used for planning purposes. We expect our assumptions will change over time and that actual prices in the future will likely differ from our estimates. Any substantial or extended decline in the actual prices of crude oil, NGLs or natural gas would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations (including reduced cash flows, borrowing capacity and possible asset impairment), the quantities of oil and natural gas reserves that we can economically produce, the quantity of estimated proved reserves that may be attributed to our properties and our ability to fund our capital program. Our future performance depends on our ability to find or acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Unless we successfully replace the reserves that we produce, our reserves will decline, eventually resulting in a decrease in oil and gas production and lower revenues and cash flows from operations. We have historically succeeded in substantially replacing reserves primarily through exploration and development and, to a lesser extent, acquisitions. We have conducted such activities on our existing oil and gas properties as well as on newly acquired properties. We may not be able to continue to replace reserves and production from such activities at acceptable costs. Currently depressed gas prices may further limit the types of reserves that can be developed economically. Lower prices also decrease our cash flows and may cause us to reduce capital expenditures.The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive. We may not be able to make the necessary capital investments to maintain or expand our oil and gas reserves if cash flows from operations are reduced and external sources of capital are limited. In addition, exploration and development activities involve numerous risks that may result in dry holes, the failure to produce oil and gas in commercial quantities and the inability to fully produce discovered reserves. We are continually identifying and evaluating acquisition opportunities. However, competition for oil and gas properties is intense and many of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than those available to us. In the event we are successful in completing an acquisition, we cannot ensure that such acquisition will consist of properties that contain economically recoverable reserves or that such acquisition will be profitably integrated into our operations. 10We may not be able to fund our planned capital expenditures. We make, and will continue to make, substantial capital expenditures to find, acquire, develop and produce oil and natural gas reserves. In 2013, we anticipate making capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, of up to approximately $400 million.If crude oil or NGL prices decrease, natural gas prices fail to recover or we encounter operating difficulties that result in our cash flow from operations being less than expected, we may have to reduce our capital expenditures unless we have borrowing capacity under the Revolver.Future cash flows and the availability of financing will also be subject to a number of variables, such as our success in locating and producing new reserves, the level of production from existing wells and prices of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas. If our revenues were to decrease due to lower crude oil, NGL and natural gas prices, decreased production or other reasons, and if we could not obtain capital through the Revolver, or otherwise on acceptable terms, our ability to execute our development plans, replace our reserves or maintain production levels could be greatly limited. We have a significant amount of indebtedness and our ability to service our indebtedness depends on certain financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.At December 31, 2012, we had an aggregate of approximately $600 million of debt outstanding and would have been able to incur an additional $297.9 million (net of $2.1 million of letters of credit) under the Revolver. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Subject to certain conditions, our existing debt instruments do not prohibit us from incurring additional indebtedness. Any increase in our level of indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation:•we will have additional cash requirements in order to support the payment of interest on our outstanding indebtedness;•increases in our outstanding indebtedness and leverage will increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; and•depending on the levels of our outstanding debt, our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes may be limited.Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our future financial condition and operating performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be forced, among other things, to: •seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets;•refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness;•sell selected assets;•reduce or delay planned capital expenditures; or•reduce or delay planned operating expenditures.Such measures might not be successful and might not enable us to service our debt. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms.The borrowing base under the Revolver may be reduced in the future if commodity prices decline.The borrowing base under the Revolver is $300 million as of December 31, 2012. Our borrowing base is re-determined twice a year and is scheduled to be redetermined during April 2013. If crude oil, NGL or natural gas prices decline, the borrowing base under the Revolver may be reduced. As a result, we may be unable to obtain funding under the Revolver. If funding is not available when or in the amounts needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, it might adversely affect our development plan as currently anticipated and our ability to make new acquisitions, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our production, financial condition and results of operations. 11The Revolver and our other debt instruments have restrictive covenants that could limit our financial flexibility.The Revolver and the indentures related to our outstanding senior notes contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our ability to borrow under the Revolver is subject to compliance with certain financial covenants, including leverage and interest coverage ratios. The Revolver includes other restrictions that, among other things, limit our ability to incur indebtedness; grant liens; engage in mergers, consolidations and liquidations; make asset dispositions, restricted payments and investments; enter into transactions with affiliates; and amend, modify or prepay certain indebtedness. The indentures related to our outstanding senior notes contain limitations on our ability to effect mergers and change of control events, as well as other limitations, including: •limitations on the declaration and payment of dividends or other restricted payments;•limitations on incurring additional indebtedness or issuing preferred stock;•limitations on the creation or existence of certain liens;•limitations on incurring restrictions on the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or other payments;•limitations on transactions with affiliates; and•limitations on the sale of assets.Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. We do not have sufficient working capital to satisfy our debt obligations in the event of an acceleration of all or a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness.Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. Oil and gas drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reserves will be found. The costs of drilling, completing and operating wells are often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: •unexpected drilling conditions;•elevated pressure or irregularities in geologic formations;•equipment failures or accidents;•costs, shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs, crews, equipment and materials;•shortages in experienced labor;•failure to or delays in securing necessary regulatory approvals and permits, including delays due to potential hydraulic fracturing regulations;•fires, explosions, blow-outs and surface cratering; and•adverse weather conditions.The prevailing prices of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas also affect the cost of and the demand for drilling rigs, production equipment and related services. The availability of drilling rigs and equipment can vary significantly from region to region at any particular time. Although land drilling rigs can be moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of demand, an undersupply of rigs in any region may result in drilling delays and higher drilling costs for the rigs that are available in that region. The wells we drill may not be productive and we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in such wells. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil or natural gas is present or may be produced economically. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. In addition, limitations on the use of hydraulic fracturing could have an adverse effect on our ability to develop and produce oil and natural gas from new wells, which would reduce our rate of return on these wells and our cash flows. Drilling activities can result in dry wells or wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues after operating and other costs to cover initial drilling costs.Our future drilling activities may not be successful, nor can we be sure that our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate within a particular area will not decline. Unsuccessful drilling activities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, we may not be able to obtain any options or lease rights in potential drilling locations that we identify. Although we have identified numerous potential drilling locations, we may not be able to economically produce oil or natural gas from all of them. 12We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers, and nonpayment or nonperformance by these parties would reduce our cash flows. We are subject to risk from loss resulting from our customers' nonperformance or nonpayment. We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of revenues. In 2012, 59 percent of our total consolidated product revenues resulted from four of our customers. Any nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers would reduce our cash flows.We participate in oil and gas leases with third parties and these third parties may not be able to fulfill their commitments to our projects. We frequently own less than 100% of the working interest in the oil and gas leases on which we conduct operations, and other parties own the remaining portion of the working interest. Financial risks are inherent in any operation where the cost of drilling, equipping, completing and operating wells is shared by more than one party. We could be held liable for joint activity obligations of other working interest owners, such as nonpayment of costs and liabilities arising from the actions of the other working interest owners. In addition, the possibility of an economic downturn and the volatility in commodity prices may increase the likelihood that some of these working interest owners, particularly those that are smaller and less established than we, are not able to fulfill their joint activity obligations. Some of our project partners have experienced liquidity and cash flow problems. These problems may lead our partners to attempt to delay the pace of drilling or project development in order to preserve cash. A partner may be unable or unwilling to pay its share of project costs. In some cases, a partner may declare bankruptcy. In the event any of our project partners do not pay their share of such costs, we would likely have to pay those costs, and we may be unsuccessful in any efforts to recover these costs from our partners, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Our business involves many operating risks, including hydraulic fracturing, that may result in substantial losses for which insurance may be unavailable or inadequate. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with the exploitation, development and exploration for and the production and transportation of oil and natural gas, including well stimulation and completion activities such as hydraulic fracturing. These operating risks include: •fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering and casing collapses;•formations with abnormal pressures;•pipeline ruptures or spills;•uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids;•migration of fracturing fluids into surrounding groundwater;•spills or releases of fracturing fluids including from trucks sometimes used to deliver these materials;•spills or releases of brine or other produced water that may go off-site;•subsurface conditions that prevent us from (i) stimulating the planned number of stages, (ii) accessing the entirety of the wellbore with our tools during completion or (iii) removing all fracturing materials from the wellbore to allow production to begin;•environmental hazards such as natural gas leaks, oil spills and discharges of toxic gases;•personal injuries and death; and•natural disasters.Any of these risks could result in substantial losses resulting from injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution and other environmental damages, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. In addition, under certain circumstances, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by previous owners or operators of properties that we own, lease or operate. As a result, we may incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities, which could reduce or eliminate funds available for exploration, development or acquisitions or cause us to incur losses. If we experience any of these problems with well stimulation and completion activities, such as hydraulic fracturing, our ability to explore for and produce oil or natural gas may be adversely affected. We could incur substantial losses or otherwise fail to realize reserves in particular formations as a result of: •the need to shut down, abandon and relocate drilling operations;•the need to sample, test and monitor drinking water in particular areas and to provide filtration or other drinking water supplies to users of water supplies that may have been impacted or threatened by potential contamination from fracturing fluids;13•the need to modify drill sites to ensure there are no spills or releases off-site and to investigate and/or remediate any spills or releases that might have occurred; or•suspension of our operations.In accordance with industry practice, we maintain insurance at a level that balances the cost of insurance with our assessment of the risk and our ability to achieve a reasonable rate of return on our investments. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be adequate to cover losses or liabilities or that we can purchase insurance against all possible losses or liabilities. Also, we cannot predict the continued availability of insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase. The occurrence of a significant event, not fully insured or indemnified against, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends on gathering, processing and transportation facilities owned by others. We deliver substantially all of our oil and natural gas production through pipelines that we do not own. The marketability of our production depends upon the availability, proximity and capacity of these pipelines, as well as gathering systems and processing facilities. The unavailability of or lack of available capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Federal, state and local regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather, process and market our oil and natural gas. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are not precise. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves and the estimated future net cash flows from such reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to crude oil, NGL and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. This process requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. These estimates are dependent on many variables and, therefore, changes often occur as these variables evolve and commodity prices fluctuate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. Actual future production, crude oil, NGL and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will most likely vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves disclosed by us. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing crude oil, NGL and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. At December 31, 2012, approximately 59 percent of our estimated proved reserves were proved undeveloped. Estimation of proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed non-producing reserves is based on volumetric calculations and adjacent reserve performance data. Recovery of proved undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. Production revenues from proved developed non-producing reserves will not be realized until some time in the future. The reserve data assumes that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop our reserves. Although we have prepared estimates of our reserves and the costs associated with these reserves in accordance with industry standards, these estimated costs may not be accurate, development may not occur as scheduled and actual results may not occur as estimated.Moreover, the reserve estimation standards provide that, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking. These standards may limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program. Moreover, we may be required to write down our proved undeveloped reserves if we do not develop those reserves within the required five-year time frame or cannot demonstrate that we could do so. We removed approximately 8.7 MMBOE of proved undeveloped reserves in 2012 as a result of the five-year limitation. You should not assume that the present value of estimated future net cash flows (standardized measure) referred to herein is the current fair value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual current and future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. As a result, net present value estimates using actual prices and costs may be significantly less than the SEC estimate that is 14provided herein. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most accurate discount factor for us. We may record impairment losses on our oil and gas properties. Quantities of proved reserves are estimated based on economic conditions in existence in the period of assessment. Lower crude oil, NGL and natural gas prices may have the impact of shortening the economic lives on certain fields because it becomes uneconomic to produce all recoverable reserves on such fields, thus reducing proved property reserve estimates. If such revisions in the estimated quantities of proved reserves occur, it will have the effect of increasing the rates of depreciation, depletion and amortization, or DD&A, on the affected properties, which would decrease earnings or result in losses through higher DD&A expense. The revisions may also be sufficient enough to cause impairment losses on certain properties that would result in a further non-cash charge to reported earnings. GAAP requires that the carrying value of oil and gas properties be reviewed on a periodic basis for possible impairment. An impairment charge is recognized when the carrying value of oil and gas properties is greater than the undiscounted future net cash flows attributable to the property. In addition to revisions to reserves and the impact of lower commodity prices, impairments may occur due to increases in estimated operating and development costs and other factors. During the past several years, we have been required to impair certain of our oil and gas properties and related assets. If crude oil, NGL and natural gas prices decline or we drill uneconomic wells, it is reasonably possible that we will have to record a significant impairment in the future. While an impairment charge reflects our ability to recover the carrying value of our investments, it does not impact our cash flows from operating activities. We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate. In 2012, other companies operated approximately 17 percent of our net production. Our success in properties operated by others will depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including timing and amount of capital expenditures, the operator's expertise and financial resources, approval of other participants in drilling wells, selection of technology and maintenance of safety and environmental standards. We have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of these non-operated properties or the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund for their operation. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence or control the operation and future development of these properties could have a material adverse effect on the realization of our targeted returns or lead to unexpected future costs. Our property acquisitions carry significant risks. Acquisition of oil and gas properties is a key element of maintaining and growing reserves and production. Competition for these assets has been and will continue to be intense. In the event we do complete an acquisition, its success will depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include the purchase price, future crude oil, NGL and natural gas prices, the ability to reasonably estimate or assess the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net revenues attainable from reserves, future operating and capital costs, results of future exploration, exploitation and development activities on the acquired properties and future abandonment and possible future environmental or other liabilities. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves, actual future production rates and associated costs and potential liabilities with respect to prospective acquisition targets. Actual results may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates. A customary review of subject properties will not necessarily reveal all existing or potential problems. Additionally, significant acquisitions can change the nature of our operations and business depending upon the character of the acquired properties if they have substantially different operating and geological characteristics or are in different geographic locations than our existing properties. To the extent that acquired properties are substantially different than our existing properties, our ability to efficiently realize the expected economic benefits of such transactions may be limited. Integrating acquired businesses and properties involves a number of special risks. These risks include the possibility that management may be distracted from regular business concerns by the need to integrate operations and systems and that unforeseen difficulties can arise in integrating operations and systems and in retaining and assimilating employees. Any of these or other similar risks could lead to potential adverse short-term or long-term effects on our operating results, and may cause us to not be able to realize any or all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. 15We are subject to complex laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Exploration, development, production and sale of oil and natural gas are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including complex environmental laws. Future laws or regulations, any adverse changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or a failure to comply with existing legal requirements may harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with environmental and other governmental regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the suspension or termination of operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties, environmental protection and taxation. Our operations create the risk of environmental liabilities to the government or third parties for any unlawful discharge of oil, gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water. In the event of environmental violations, we may be charged with remedial costs and land owners may file claims for alternative water supplies, property damage or bodily injury. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become more stringent in recent years, and may, in some circumstances, result in liability for environmental damage regardless of negligence or fault. In addition, pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. These liabilities and costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Item 1, “Business — Government Regulation and Environmental Matters.” Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. The practice of hydraulic fracturing has come under increased scrutiny by the environmental community. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into prospective rock formations to stimulate oil and natural gas production. We use this completion technique on all of our wells. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental impact of hydraulic fracturing. The EPA also announced that one of its enforcement initiatives for 2011 to 2013 is to focus on environmental compliance by the energy extraction sector. In addition, some states and local governments have enacted legislation or adopted regulations, and the U.S. Congress and other states are considering enacting legislation or adopting regulations, that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. Individually or collectively, such new legislation or regulation could result in increased compliance and operating costs, delays or additional operating restrictions. If the use of hydraulic fracturing is limited, prohibited or subjected to further regulation, these requirements could delay or effectively prevent the extraction of oil and gas from formations which would not be economically viable without the use of hydraulic fracturing. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Derivative transactions may limit our potential gains and involve other risks. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the sale of our crude oil, NGLs and natural gas, we periodically enter into commodity price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. Our hedges are limited in duration, usually for periods of two years or less. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile crude oil, NGL and natural gas prices, such transactions may limit our potential gains if crude oil, NGL or natural gas prices were to rise over the price established by the hedging arrangements. In trying to maintain an appropriate balance, we may end up hedging too much or too little, depending upon how crude oil, NGL or natural gas prices fluctuate in the future. In addition, derivative transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: •our production is less than expected;•there is a widening of price basis differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement;•the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or•a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts crude oil, NGL or natural gas prices.In addition, derivative instruments involve basis risk. Basis risk in a derivative contract occurs when the index upon which the contract is based is more or less variable than the index upon which the hedged asset is based, thereby making the hedge less effective. For example, a NYMEX index used for hedging certain volumes of production may have more or less variability than the regional price index used for the sale of that production.16The enactment of derivatives legislation and regulation could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. On July 21, 2010, new comprehensive financial reform legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Act, was enacted that establishes federal oversight regulation of over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The Act requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, the SEC and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation. In its rulemaking under the Act, the CFTC has issued final regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions would be exempt from these position limits. The position limits rule was vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2012, although the CFTC has stated that it will appeal the District Court's decision. The CFTC also has finalized other regulations, including critical rulemakings on the definition of “swap,” “security-based swap,” “swap dealer” and “major swap participant.” The Act and CFTC rules also will require us in connection with certain derivatives activities to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements (or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements). In addition, new regulations may require us to comply with margin requirements, although these regulations are not finalized and their application to us is uncertain at this time. Other regulations also remain to be finalized, and the CFTC recently has delayed the compliance dates for various regulations already finalized. As a result, it is not possible at this time to predict with certainty the full effects of the Act and CFTC rules on us or the timing of such effects. The Act may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties. The Act and associated regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including from swap recordkeeping and reporting requirements and through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks that we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Act and associated regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Act is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. Our ability to utilize U.S. net operating loss. or NOL, carryforwards to reduce future taxable income is subject to various limitations under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. The utilization of such carryforwards may be limited upon the occurrence of certain ownership changes, including the purchase or sale of our stock by 5% shareholders and our offering of stock during any three-year period resulting in an aggregate change of more than 50% in our beneficial ownership. In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 of the Code imposes an annual limitation on the amount of our taxable income that can be offset by these carryforwards. As of December 31, 2012, we do not believe that an ownership change has occurred; however, to the extent an ownership change has occurred or were to occur in the future, it is possible that the limitations imposed on our ability to use pre-ownership change losses could cause a significant net increase in our U.S. federal income tax liability and could cause U.S. federal income taxes to be paid earlier than they otherwise would be paid if such limitations were not in effect.Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of proposed legislation. President Obama's budget proposal for fiscal year 2013 recommended the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, the elimination of the deduction for United States production activities for oil and gas production, and an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of this legislation or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development, and any such change could have a material adverse effect on us. 17Item 1BUnresolved Staff Comments We have received no written SEC staff comments regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2012 fiscal year and remain unresolved.