ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The supermarket industry is highly competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected. The supermarket industry is highly competitive and characterized by high inventory turnover, high capital intensity and narrow profit margins. The number and type of competitors vary by location and include: · multi-regional and regional supermarket chains; · independent and specialty grocers; · value-oriented stores offering private label goods and other low-cost offerings; · drug and convenience stores; and · “alternative format” food stores, such as specialty food stores, retail drug stores, national general merchandisers and discount retailers, membership clubs, warehouse stores, and supercenters. Our principal competitors include national and regional supermarket chains, which compete with us on the basis of location, quality of products, service, price, product variety, and store condition. Increasingly competitive markets have generally made it difficult for grocery store operators to achieve comparable store sales gains, while “Every Day Low Price” (“EDLP”) and other value-oriented competitors make it difficult to pass along food price increases as price adjustments. Because sales growth has been difficult to attain, our competitors have attempted to maintain market share through increased levels of promotional activities, discount pricing, and private label offerings, creating a more difficult environment in which to consistently increase year-over-year sales gains. In addition, most of our “traditional” and "nontraditional" competitors are not unionized and have lower labor costs, which allow them to take measures that could adversely affect our competitive position. We face increased competitive pressure in a number of our markets from existing competitors and from the threatened entry by one or more major new competitors. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and have less indebtedness than we have, and could use these resources to take measures which could adversely affect our competitive position. Our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected by competitive factors, including product mix and pricing changes that may be made in response to competition from existing or new competitors. From time to time, the relative strength of our competitors can change depending on prevailing market conditions. Our business and results of operations may be sensitive to economic conditions that impact consumer spending. Our business and results of operations may be sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Future economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment levels, energy prices, business conditions, interest rates, inflation, and tax rates could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending away from our product quality and service offering to a more focused price-based offering. A general reduction in the level of discretionary spending or shifts in consumer discretionary spending to our competitors could adversely affect our growth and profitability. We are also subject to increases in interchange fees charged to us for accepting debit and credit cards. The increased use of these forms of payment and increases in the fees charged to us could have an impact on our earnings. We may experience significant fluctuations in our comparable store sales. Our comparable store sales in the future could fluctuate or be lower than our historical average for many reasons, including general economic trends, increased competition, price changes in response to competitive factors, shifts in demographic patterns and local economic conditions, changes in traffic patterns, and possible supply shortages. Our results of operations may be materially impacted by fluctuations in our comparable store sales as it becomes more difficult to leverage expenses at a lower level of sales. Our stores are concentrated in the Northeastern United States, making us susceptible to economic downturns, natural disasters and other adverse conditions or catastrophic events in that region. Our stores are located in Pennsylvania, upstate New York, Vermont, and New Hampshire. As a result, we are vulnerable to economic downturns in those areas, in addition to those that may affect the country as a whole, as well as natural and other catastrophic events that may impact these regions. Changes in economic conditions within our operating regions, including demographics and employment conditions, may adversely affect our sales and earnings. We may be adversely affected by these events to a greater extent than our competitors whose operations extend outside of these regions. These events may adversely affect our sales, which may lead to lower earnings and may also adversely affect our future growth and expansion. - 10 - - Changes in vendor promotions or allowances, including the way vendors target their promotional spending, and our ability to effectively manage these programs, could significantly impact our margins and profitability. We engage in a wide variety of promotional programs cooperatively with our vendors. The nature of these programs and the allocation of funds among them evolve over time as the parties assess the results of specific promotions and plan for future promotions. These programs require careful management in order for us to maintain or improve margins while at the same time increasing sales for us and for our participating vendors. A reduction in overall promotional spending or a shift in promotional spending away from certain types of promotions that we have historically utilized could have a significant impact on our gross profit margin and profitability. Our ability to anticipate and react to changes in promotional spending by, among other things, planning and implementing alternative programs that are expected to be mutually beneficial to our vendors and us, will be an important factor in maintaining or improving margins and profitability. If we are unable to effectively manage these programs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our debt instruments include financial and other covenants that may limit our operating flexibility and may affect our future business strategies and operating results. Covenants in the documents governing our outstanding or future debt, including our credit facilities, or our future debt levels, could limit our operating and financial flexibility. Our ability to respond to market conditions and opportunities as well as capital needs could be constrained by the degree to which we are leveraged, by changes in our availability or cost of capital, and by contractual limitations on the degree to which we may, without the consent of our lenders, take actions such as engaging in mergers, acquisitions or divestitures, incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures, rationalizing underperforming assets and making investments, loans or advances. If needs or opportunities were identified that would require additional financial resources, obtaining those additional resources could increase our borrowing costs, further reduce financial flexibility, require alterations in our strategies and affect future operating results. Additionally, particularly given the current uncertainty in the credit markets, there is no guarantee that we would be able to acquire additional financial resources, or to refinance existing debt, on terms that are acceptable to us. A significant portion of our employees are covered under collective bargaining agreements. Our relationships with our employees and their unions, including the possibility of labor disputes or work stoppages in connection with future negotiations, could have an adverse impact on our financial results. Labor costs, which are largely an extension of the results of collective bargaining negotiations with our unions, traditionally have had a significant impact upon the pricing of our products in the highly-competitive supermarket industry. Of our hourly workforce, 94% are members of unions. All salaried employees and 6% of our hourly workforce are not members of a collective bargaining unit. Because we are party to fourteen collective bargaining agreements, with six collective bargaining agreements expiring in fiscal year 2010, it is anticipated that the unions which are parties to these agreements will seek improvements for their members with respect to, among other things, healthcare benefits, pension benefits, and wage rates. As a result, operating costs concerning our unionized employees may increase over the next several years. Further, our ability to control pension costs will be impacted by the performance of the stock market and the Pension Protection Act of 2006, which might require additional funding costs into the multi-employer pension plans into which we contribute. We may experience technology failures which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We use large, complex information technology systems that are important to our business operations. Although we have a disaster recovery plan and have installed security programs and procedures, the security of our technology systems could be compromised and technology failures and system disruptions could occur. Any of these events could cause us to incur significant costs, including payments to third parties for damages. - 11 - - Losses as a result of our owning, leasing and developing real estate may impair our ability to focus on and expand our core business as desired. As a result of our real estate holdings and leases, we are subject to varying degrees of risk and liability generally incident to the ownership, use and development of real estate. These risks and liabilities include, among other things: · fluctuations in value caused by adverse changes in national, regional, and local economic conditions and local real estate market conditions (such as an oversupply of or a reduction in demand for retail space in the area); · costs of compliance with zoning, environmental, tax, and other laws and regulations; · real estate development risks, such as incorrect cost and occupancy estimates, non-availability of financing and the need for mortgage lender or property partner approvals for certain expansion activities; · the perceptions of customers and tenants and prospective tenants of the safety, convenience, and attractiveness of our properties; · the lack of liquidity of real estate investments and our ability to sell, lease, or sublease any of our properties for cash in a timely fashion; · failure to promptly renew leases; · competition from comparable properties; · the occupancy rate of our properties; · tenant and subtenant defaults and the costs of enforcing our rights; · the effects of any bankruptcies or insolvencies of major tenants or subtenants; · increasing operating costs which may not be passed through fully to tenants or subtenants; and · fluctuations in mortgage interest and lease rates. A failure to adequately manage these risks and liabilities could adversely affect our revenues, profits and available cash and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Several portions of our properties are mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness outstanding under our credit facilities. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations, we could sustain losses as a result of foreclosures on the properties by our lenders. In addition, if it becomes necessary or desirable for us to dispose of one or more of the mortgaged properties, we might not be able to obtain a release of the lien on such mortgaged properties without payment of the associated debt. The foreclosure of a mortgage or default of a loan on a property or the inability to sell a property could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. These considerations could make it difficult for us to sell properties, even if a sale were in our best interests. We maintain property insurance, difference in conditions insurance, national flood insurance (where applicable), general liability insurance, directors’ and officers’ insurance, and excess insurance coverage. At leased and mortgaged locations we maintain any of these lines of coverage that we are contractually obligated to maintain. At owned locations, we maintain all of these lines of coverage. We maintain large deductibles and/or large layers of self-insurance on several of these lines of coverage. We are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to zoning, land use, environmental protection, work place safety, public health, beer and wine sales, and pharmaceutical sales. A number of states and local jurisdictions regulate the licensing of stores, including beer license grants. In addition, under certain local regulations, we are prohibited from selling beer in certain of our stores. We are affected by fluctuating utility, fuel, and other operating costs. Fluctuating fuel costs can adversely affect the operating costs for our fleet of tractors and trailers that distribute goods from our warehouses and distribution facilities to all of our stores and can adversely affect our monthly store utility expenses. We may not be able to recover these rising utility and fuel costs through increased prices charged to our customers. In fiscal year 2010, we entered into agreements to fix the costs of a significant portion of certain of our utility and fuel costs. - 12 - - We may be held liable for environmental damages with regard to our current and former properties, regardless of the lawfulness of our activities on such properties. Our operations subject us to various laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous materials and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Under certain environmental laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, also known as CERCLA or the Superfund law, and similar state statutes, responsibility for the entire cost of cleanup of a contaminated site can be imposed upon any current or former site owners or operators, or upon any party who sent waste to the site, regardless of the lawfulness of the original activities that led to the contamination. From time to time we have been named as one of many potentially responsible parties at Superfund sites, although to date our share of liability has typically been small. We believe we are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental requirements. However, future developments such as more aggressive enforcement policies, new laws or discovery of unknown conditions may require expenditures that may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Customer concerns regarding food safety may adversely affect our business. We could be adversely affected if our customers lose confidence in the quality and safety of certain products in our stores. Negative publicity regarding these concerns, whether valid or not, may discourage customers from buying our products. Any loss of confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to re-establish. As such, any issue regarding the safety of our products could have a substantial and adverse effect on our operations. Our operating results may be impacted by variability in self-insurance liability estimates. We are self-insured for workers’ compensation and general liability claims up to set retention amounts, after which we maintain excess insurance coverage. Liabilities are maintained based on independent actuarial estimates of aggregate liability claims incurred and an estimate for incurred but not reported claims. Our insurance accruals reflect certain actuarial assumptions and management judgments that are made based on factors that are subject to change. Any significant variation in these factors could cause a material change in our self-insurance liabilities and our operating results. There is no existing trading market for our common stock. Our common stock is currently quoted on an over-the-counter (“OTC”) exchange, and there is no assurance that an active trading market for our common stock will develop. We are not currently applying for a listing on any national securities exchange. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that a holder of our common stock will be able to sell such securities in the future or as to the price at which any such sale would occur. If a trading market were to develop, the liquidity of the market for such securities, and the prices at which such securities would trade, will depend upon many factors, including the number of holders, investor expectations, and other factors beyond our control. In addition, shares of our common stock were issued to certain pre-petition creditors as part of our plan of reorganization. Some of these holders may prefer to liquidate their investment rather than hold it on a long-term basis, which may create an initial imbalance in the market if and when one was to develop. Our estimates and measurement of pension obligations, net periodic benefit cost and minimum funding requirements for defined benefit plans are subject to market volatility that can result in significant variances between estimated and actual results. The determination of our single-employer noncontributory defined benefit pension plans’ pension obligation and net periodic benefit cost is dependent, in part, on our selection of certain assumptions used by our actuaries in calculating these amounts on an annual basis. These assumptions include the weighted-average discount rate at which obligations can effectively be settled, the expected long-term rate of return on assets, and certain employee related factors, such as retirement age and mortality. We believe that our current assumptions used to estimate plan obligations and annual expense are appropriate; however, as current economic conditions have been and continue to be volatile, with the recent months reaching unprecedented levels, differences between actual results and expected results based on certain of our previous assumptions could lead to changes that materially affect our pension obligations and adversely affect our future pension expense. Actual results that differ from our assumptions are accumulated in stockholders’ equity and amortized over future periods into the Consolidated Statement of Operations. Also, the amount of contributions made to our single-employer noncontributory benefit plans will be affected by the performance of investments made by the plans, the extent to which trustees of the plans reduce the costs of future service benefits, minimum funding requirements required by ERISA and the Pension Protection Act of 2006. - 13 - - The results of the ongoing governmental investigations arising out of certain of our accounting practices prior to our emergence from bankruptcy in 2005 may have an adverse effect on us. The United States Attorney Office for the Northern District of New York (the “USAO”) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) have been conducting investigations relating to certain of the Company’s accounting practices and policies prior to the Company’s emergence from bankruptcy in April 2005. The Company has been cooperating with these investigations and has produced documents and made Company employees available for interviews as requested. On September 30, 2008 and October 28, 2008, the Company reached agreements with the SEC and USAO, respectively, resolving these parallel investigations. Each agreement requires the Company to continue to cooperate in these ongoing investigations, and places certain affirmative obligations on the Company, as described in Item 3. If the Company fails to satisfy its ongoing obligations under these agreements, the SEC and/or the USAO may decide to initiate civil and criminal actions against the Company, which could lead to penalties, sanctions, and increased legal expense. Our purchases are concentrated primarily with one vendor. We purchase substantially all of our retail merchandise from a single vendor, C&S. Any material change in C&S’s method of operation or a termination or material modification of our contractual relationships with C&S could have an adverse impact on our supply chain, sales, and earnings. Additionally, an adverse change in C&S’s results of operations could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. If our procurement arrangement with C&S is terminated, we may be unable to locate alternative, comparable sources from which to purchase our retail merchandise, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 