ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading prices of our securities can be materially and adversely affected by many events and conditions including the following: RISKS EFFECTING OUR BUSINESS: OUR LOAN PORTFOLIO IS HEAVILY CONCENTRATED IN COMMERCIAL LOANS. A relatively large portion of our total loan portfolio, 67.7%, consists of commercial loans. Commercial loans typically are made on the basis of the borrower's ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the borrower's business. As a result, the availability of funds for the repayment of commercial loans may be substantially dependent on the success of the business itself and the general economic environment. Commercial loans, therefore, have a greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans. In addition, commercial loans generally carry larger balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers than one - to four-family loans. Commercial lending generally also requires substantially greater administration and oversight efforts, and may involve greater administrative expense, compared to residential or non-residential real estate lending. OUR LOAN PORTFOLIO HAS NOT EXPERIENCED SIGNIFICANT GROWTH Since year end 2000, our net loan portfolio has grown 24.1%, or less than 5% per year, from a net total of $53,024,831 at year end 2000 to $65,805,907 at year end 2005. The lack of loan growth makes it difficult for us to increase earnings, and requires us to manage our expenses more stringently, including our interest expense. This may make it difficult for us to grow our franchise while maintaining acceptable earnings. OUR OPERATIONS ARE NOT GEOGRAPHICALLY DIVERSIFIED. We conduct business through our main office and six branches, located in Monmouth and Middlesex Counties in New Jersey. Although we are legally permitted to lend throughout New Jersey, a substantial majority of our loans are made to businesses and individuals located in the trade areas surrounding our branches. Our business is therefore geographically more limited than that of many of our competitors. Any downturn in the local economies of the communities surrounding our branches could have a material negative impact on our results of operations. WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON NET INTEREST INCOME FOR OUR EARNINGS. Non-interest income accounts for a small percentage of our total net income. For the year ending December 31, 2005, our non-interest income was $890,512, compared to net interest income of $6.8 million. In addition, our non-interest income has declined in each of the last three years. Therefore, in order to increase our earnings, we must manage our interest expense, obtain higher rates on our loans and avoid non-performing assets, which will require additional provisions to the allowance for possible loan losses. Increases in the rates we must pay to acquire or maintain deposits, or competition requiring us to lower loan rates, will negatively affect our earnings. RISKS RELATED TO THE BANKING INDUSTRY: THERE IS A RISK THAT WE MAY NOT BE REPAID IN A TIMELY MANNER, OR AT ALL, FOR LOANS WE MAKE. The risk of nonpayment (or deferred or delayed payment) of loans is inherent in commercial banking. Such non-payment, or delayed or deferred payment of loans to the Company, if they occur, may have a material adverse effect on our earnings and overall financial condition. Additionally, in compliance with applicable banking laws and regulations, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses created through charges against earnings. As of December 31, 2005, the Company's allowance for loan losses was $800,000. The Company's marketing focus on small to medium-size businesses may result in the assumption by the Company of certain lending risks that are different from or greater than those which would apply to loans made to larger companies. We seek to minimize our credit risk exposure through credit controls, which include evaluation of potential borrowers, available collateral, liquidity and cash flow. However, there can be no assurance that such procedures will actually reduce loan losses. 6 OUR ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES MAY NOT BE ADEQUATE TO COVER ACTUAL LOSSES. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and nonperformance. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect results of our operations. Risks within the loan portfolio are analyzed on a continuous basis by management, and periodically, by an independent loan review function and by the audit committee. A risk system, consisting of multiple grading categories, is utilized as an analytical tool to assess risk and the appropriate level of loss reserves. Along with the risk system, management further evaluates risk characteristics of the loan portfolio under current economic conditions and considers such factors as the financial condition of the borrowers, past and expected loan loss experience, and other factors management feels deserve recognition in establishing an adequate reserve. This risk assessment process is performed at least quarterly, and, as adjustments become necessary, they are realized in the periods in which they become known. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control and these losses may exceed current estimates. State and federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses and have in the past required an increase in our allowance for loan losses. Although we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover probable and reasonably estimated losses, we cannot assure you that we will not further increase the allowance for loan losses or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could adversely affect our earnings. WE ARE IN COMPETITION WITH MANY OTHER BANKS, INCLUDING LARGER COMMERCIAL BANKS, WHICH HAVE GREATER RESOURCES THAN US. The banking industry within the State of New Jersey is highly competitive. The Company's principal market area is served by branch offices of large commercial banks and thrift institutions. In addition, in 1999 the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Modernization Act of 1999 was passed into law. The Modernization Act permits other financial entities, such as insurance companies and securities firms, to acquire or form financial institutions, thereby further increasing competition. A number of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do to expend upon advertising and marketing, and their substantially greater capitalization enables them to make much larger loans. Our success depends a great deal upon our judgment that large and mid-size financial institutions do not adequately serve small businesses in our principal market area and our ability to compete favorably for such customers. In addition to competition from larger institutions, we also face competition for individuals and small businesses from recently formed banks seeking to compete as "home town" institutions. Most of these new institutions have focused their marketing efforts on the smaller end of the small business market we serve. THE LAWS THAT REGULATE OUR OPERATIONS ARE DESIGNED FOR THE PROTECTION OF DEPOSITORS AND THE PUBLIC, BUT NOT OUR STOCKHOLDERS. The federal and state laws and regulations applicable to our operations give regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement responsibilities, and generally have been promulgated to protect depositors and the deposit insurance funds and not for the purpose of protecting stockholders. These laws and regulations can materially affect our future business. Laws and regulations now affecting us may be changed at any time, and the interpretation of such laws and regulations by bank regulatory authorities is also subject to change. We can give no assurance that future changes in laws and regulations or changes in their interpretation will not adversely our business. WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO HIGHER OPERATING COSTS AS A RESULT OF GOVERNMENT REGULATION. We are subject to extensive federal and state legislation, regulation and supervision, which are intended primarily to protect depositors and the Federal Deposit Insurance Company's Bank Insurance Fund, rather than investors. Legislative and regulatory changes may increase our costs of doing business or otherwise adversely affect us and create competitive advantages for non-bank competitors. 7 WE CANNOT PREDICT HOW CHANGES IN TECHNOLOGY WILL IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. The financial services market, including banking services, is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in: - telecommunications; - data processing; - automation; - Internet-based banking; - telebanking; and - debit cards and so-called "smart cards." Our ability to compete successfully in the future will depend on whether we can anticipate and respond to technological changes. To develop these and other new technologies we will likely have to make additional capital investments. Although we continually invest in new technology, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources or access to the necessary proprietary technology to remain competitive in the future. THE COMPANY'S INFORMATION SYSTEMS MAY EXPERIENCE AN INTERRUPTION OR BREACH IN SECURITY. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company's customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Company's information systems could damage the Company's reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS "None" 