ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Operations Our future operating results may be affected by price fluctuations in, and availability of, raw materials. Our sales and operating income could decrease if we are unable to obtain the raw materials necessary to meet our customers' requirements or to pass on to our customers cost increases in raw material and surcharges. We purchase our principal raw material, flat-rolled steel, from multiple primary steel producers. The steel industry as a whole is cyclical and pricing can be volatile as a result of general economic conditions, labor costs, competition, import duties, tariffs and currency exchange rates. In addition, the supplier base is shrinking through consolidation. This volatility and reduction in the number of suppliers can significantly affect steel costs and availability. We must maintain substantial inventories in order to provide our customers with short lead times and just-in-time delivery. Accordingly, we regularly purchase raw materials in an effort to maintain the inventory levels required to meet the anticipated needs of our customers. As raw material prices increase, competitive conditions will impact the prices at which we can obtain raw material. We may pay significantly more for the raw material that meets our specifications or we may be unable to obtain these materials at a competitive price. If we are unable to pass through future price increases to our customers, our gross margins will decrease, possibly resulting in lower operating income and profitability. If we are unable to obtain the raw materials necessary to meet our customers' requirements for processed steel products, we could lose sales to our competitors and our operating income and profitability could decrease. 7 The automotive industry accounts for a significant portion of our sales, and reduced demand from this industry is likely to result in lower operating income and profitability. In fiscal 2005, 2004, and 2003, direct sales to the automotive industry accounted for 8%, 6% and 10% of total sales, respectively, and direct sales to the automotive and automotive supply industry accounted for 46%, 49% and 50%, respectively, of our total sales. Such sales include sales directly to auto manufacturers and to manufacturers of automotive components and parts. General economic conditions, consumer confidence, significant business interruptions and other factors beyond our control may cause significant demand fluctuations from the automotive industry. Downturns in demand from the automotive industry or any of the other industries we serve, or a decrease in the prices that we can realize from sales of our products to customers in any of these industries, could result in lower revenues, operating income and profits. One customer accounts for a significant portion of our sales, and loss of this customer is likely to result in lower operating income and profitability. One customer accounted for approximately 12% of our sales in fiscal 2005. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our sales in fiscal 2004 and 2003. The loss of this customer could result in lower revenues, operating income and profits. We have made substantial investments in two processing facilities adjacent to primary suppliers of raw material. If either of those suppliers reduces its business with us, we could be forced to close or significantly reduce our operations at that facility, which could limit our ability to recover our investment in that facility. We have made strategic investments to construct and equip our processing facilities in Ghent, Kentucky and Berkeley, South Carolina, each of which is located adjacent to primary suppliers of raw material to those facilities. As a result, those facilities are more dependent on a single supplier of raw material than our other facilities. If either of those suppliers should experience a business failure, significantly curtail operations or stop doing business with us, we may be unable to supply the facility adjacent to that supplier with sufficient raw material at a competitive price. This could force us to close or significantly reduce our processing operations at that facility and limit our ability to recover our investment in that facility. Our business is highly fragmented and competitive, and increased competition could reduce our operating income. The steel processing business is highly fragmented and competitive. We compete with a number of other processors on a region-by-region basis, based primarily on the precision and range of achievable tolerances, quality, price, raw materials and inventory availability and the ability to meet the delivery schedules of our customers. We compete with companies of various sizes, some of which have more established brand names and relationships in certain markets we serve than we do. Increased competition could force us to lower our prices or offer services at a higher cost to us, which could reduce our operating income. We could incur substantial costs in order to comply with, or to address any violations under, environmental laws that could significantly increase our operating expenses and reduce our operating income. Our operations are subject to various environmental statutes and regulations, including laws and regulations addressing materials used in the manufacturing of our products. In addition, certain of our operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the air and water and establish standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. Failure to maintain or achieve compliance with these laws and regulations or with the permits required for our operations could result in substantial operating costs and capital expenditures, in addition to fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party claims for property damage or personal injury, cleanup costs or temporary or permanent discontinuance of operations. Certain of our facilities have been in operation for many years and, over time, we and other predecessor operators of these facilities have generated, used, handled and disposed of hazardous and other regulated wastes. Environmental liabilities could exist, including cleanup obligations at these facilities or at off-site locations where materials from our operations were disposed of, which could result in future expenditures that cannot be currently quantified and which could reduce our profits. 8 Our operations are subject to seasonal fluctuations which may cause our quarterly cash flows to vary and adversely affect our ability to fund our operating requirements, meet our obligations under our credit agreement and to pay dividends. Our sales are generally lower in the first and fourth quarters due primarily to customer plant shutdowns in the automotive industry for holidays. In addition, quarterly results may be affected by the timing of large customer orders, periods of high vacation concentration and the timing and magnitude of acquisition costs. Therefore, our cash flow from operations may vary from quarter to quarter. If, as a result of any such fluctuation, our quarterly cash flow is significantly reduced, we may not be able to service the indebtedness under our credit agreement. A default in our credit agreement could prevent us from borrowing additional funds needed to fund our working capital and strategic investment requirements and limit our ability to pay dividends. We depend on our senior management team and the loss of any member could prevent us from implementing our business strategy. Our success is dependent on the management and leadership skills of our senior management team. We have not entered into employment agreements with any of our senior management personnel other than Michael J. Carroll, which expires in January 2010. The loss of any members of our management team or the failure to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could prevent us from implementing our business strategy and continuing to grow our business at a rate necessary to maintain future profitability. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our principal shareholders have the ability to exert significant control in matters requiring shareholder vote and could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company. Approximately 10.6% of our outstanding common stock, including shares of common stock issuable under options granted which are exercisable within 60 days, will be owned by Bradford T. Ray, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Merwin J. Ray, our Founding Chairman, and Stuart N. Ray, a Director and our Vice President. Merwin J. Ray is the father of Bradford T. Ray and Stuart N. Ray. As a result, the Ray family will continue to have significant influence over all actions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of our board of directors. Through their concentration of voting power, the Ray family could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company or other business combinations that might otherwise be beneficial to our other shareholders. In deciding how to vote on such matters, the Ray family may be influenced by interests that conflict with yours. Certain provisions of our corporate documents and Kentucky law could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could deter, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that our shareholders consider favorable and could depress the market value of our common stock. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of the Kentucky Business Corporation Act, could have the effect of deterring takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in control or management of our company that our shareholders consider favorable and could depress the market value of our common stock. We have also implemented a shareholder rights plan which could make an unsolicited takeover more difficult, even though the potential takeover offer may provide our shareholders an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium to prevailing market prices. 9 The market price for our Common Stock may be volatile. In recent periods, there has been volatility in the market price for our common stock. In addition, the market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially in the future in response to a number of factors, including the following: * our quarterly operating results or the operating results of other companies in the steel processing industry; * changes in general conditions in the economy, the financial markets or the steel processing industry; * changes in financial estimates or recommendations by stock market analysts regarding us or our competitors; * announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions; and * increases in raw materials and other costs. In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may materially adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 