Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this report, in your evaluation of the Company and its financial condition. Numerous risk factors, including potentially the risk factors described in this section, could cause material harm to the Company’s business and impair the value of its Common Stock. The Company is Heavily Dependent on U.S. Government Contracts. All of the Company’s revenues from continuing operations in 2008 and 2007 were derived directly or indirectly from U.S. Government contracts or subcontracts. U.S. Government contracts expose the Company to a number of risks, including: • Unpredictable contract or project terminations; • Reductions in government funds available for the Company’s projects due to government policy changes, budget cuts and contract adjustments; • Disruptions in scheduled workflow due to untimely delivery of equipment and components necessary to perform government contracts; • Penalties arising from post award contract audits; and • Final cost audits in which the value of the Company’s contracts may be reduced and may take a substantial number of years to be completed. In addition, substantially all of the Company’s backlog scheduled for delivery can be terminated at the convenience of the U.S. Government since orders are often placed well before delivery, and its contracts typically provide that orders may be terminated with limited or no penalties. If the Company is unable to address any of the above risks, the Company’s business could be materially harmed and the value of its Common Stock could be impaired. All of the Company’s Revenues is Derived From a Few Contracts, and the Termination or Failure to Renew Any of Them Could Materially Harm the Company’s Business. A small number of contracts account for all of the Company’s revenues. Contracts with the U.S. Government comprised approximately 100% of the Company’s revenues from continuing operations during 2008 and 2007. The USAF KC-135 PDM program in and of itself comprised 83% and 74% of the Company’s total revenues from continuing operations during 2008 and 2007, respectively. Termination of a contract, a dispute over compliance with contract terms, a disruption of any of these contracts (including option years not being exercised), or the inability of the Company to renew or replace any of these contracts when they expire, could materially harm its business and impair the value of its Common Stock. 10 Table of Contents The financial condition and results of operations of the Company, which operated as a subcontractor to the Boeing Company (“Boeing”), have been impacted by several unusual events in connection with the U.S. Air Force (“USAF”) KC-135 Program Depot Maintenance (“PDM”) program and the related recompetition for the new KC-135 contract award. As discussed in previous filings, from May 2005 through June 2006, the Company worked in cooperation with Boeing to submit a joint proposal on the new KC-135 contract under a Memorandum of Agreement with Boeing (“MOA”). After filing an initial proposal with the USAF, which included critical financial and operational information on the Company’s KC-135 program, the Company believes Boeing breached the MOA due to the USAF’s reducing the number of aircraft in the request for proposal. From July 2006 to September 2007, the Company prepared its own proposal for the new KC-135 contract. The Company’s proposal for the KC-135 PDM program was unsuccessful as the contract was awarded to Boeing in September 2007. The Company filed a protest with the Government Accountability Office (“GAO”) and the GAO upheld in part the Company’s protest on the basis that the USAF failed to conduct a proper analysis of Boeing’s cost/price proposal for realism or potential risk. On March 3, 2008, the USAF advised the GAO that in response to the recommendation by the GAO it had completed additional review and that the Company’s proposal was not selected for award. The Company filed a protest on the new award decision on March 11, 2008 as to the USAF’s lack of proper evaluation to meet GAO recommendations and sudden post-award change of work scope under the contract recompete. On June 13, 2008, the GAO denied the Company’s March 11, 2008 protest. On June 27, 2008, the Company filed a complaint in the United States Court of Federal Claims (the “Court”) protesting the actions of the USAF in connection with the award to Boeing of the KC-135 PDM contract. On July 3, 2008, the Court granted Boeing’s motion to intervene in the case. On September 30, 2008, the Court set aside the KC-135 PDM solicitation, enjoining the USAF from proceeding with the award to Boeing and requiring a resolicitation of the procurement that will explicitly address the role of the aging KC-135 fleet on the PDM process. In February 2009, the USAF and Boeing filed appeals of the Court’s ruling with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (“Federal Circuit”). The Company expects to file a cross appeal with the Federal Circuit in the second quarter of 2009. The Company expects the appeals process before the Federal Circuit to be resolved in the fourth quarter of 2009 or the first quarter of 2010. The Company is currently negotiating a subcontract with Boeing for KC-135 PDM work to be performed until a new solicitation and award is completed pursuant to the Court’s order. If the Company is not successful in the new re-competition for the KC-135 PDM, it would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and prospects, materially harm the Company’s business and impair the value of its Common Stock. The Company’s Trust for its Defined Benefit Plan is Under-Funded and Subject to Financial Market Forces. The Company maintains a Defined Benefit Plan (the “Pension Plan”), which covers substantially all employees at its Birmingham, Alabama facilities. The Pension Plan’s assets consist primarily of equity mutual funds, bond mutual funds, and cash equivalents. These assets are exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit, and overall market volatility. At December 31, 2008, the Pension Plan was underfunded by $33.1 million due primarily to investment losses incurred during 2008 in the equity portion of the Pension Plan investments. Changes in investment returns, discount assumptions, mortality assumptions or benefit obligations may have a significant impact on the funded status of the Pension Plan. Unless and until the Pension Plan under-funding is remedied sufficiently, the making of minimum required contributions may adversely affect the Company’s liquidity and cash flow, which could materially harm its business and impair the value of its Common Stock. On February 29, 2008, the Company applied to the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for a waiver of contributions for the 2007 plan year which concluded on September 15, 2008. On September 15, 2008, the Company contributed $3.9 million to the Pension Plan, fully satisfying the contribution requirements for the 2007 plan year. On March 30, 2009, the IRS granted the waiver request resulting in a deferral of required contributions for the 2007 plan year being spread over the next five years. As a result of the waiver, the pension payment for the 2007 plan year is now considered a payment for the 2008 plan year. The remaining amount owed for the 2008 plan year of $0.5 million was made during the first quarter of 2009. As a result of the missed quarterly contributions while the waiver request was under consideration, the Pension Benefit Guaranty 11 Table of Contents Corporation (“PBGC”) filed liens on the Company’s assets. The PBGC will maintain a lien on the Company’s assets over the time period of the deferral of the 2007 plan year contributions, which will be approximately five years. The additional pension contributions and the PBGC liens could make it more difficult for the Company to obtain additional financing in the future. The Company May Need Additional Financing to Maintain its Business Which May or May Not Be Available The Company is proposing and is expecting to propose on several programs in the next twelve months. If the Company is successful in winning contracts for some or all of these programs, additional financing may be needed to fund working capital requirements related to the buildup of accounts receivable and inventory on the projects. If additional financing is needed, the Company’s recent negative results of operations and the uncertainties regarding future contract awards will likely make it more difficult and expensive for the Company to raise additional capital that may be necessary to continue its operations. In addition, the ongoing global financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets has resulted in a severe tightening in credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in credit and equity markets. This financial crisis could impact our business in a number of ways, including: Potential Deferment of Purchases and Orders by Customers: Uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions may cause governments, including the U.S. government, which is our largest customer, consumers and businesses to modify, defer or cancel purchases in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and declining consumer confidence. Accordingly, future demand for our products could differ materially from our current expectations. Additionally, if customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us. Any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Negative Impact from Increased Financial Pressures on Key Suppliers: Our ability to meet customers’ demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components from our suppliers. If certain key suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent as a result of the financial crisis, then we may have to find new suppliers. We may experience significant delays in servicing our customers and incur additional costs to establish alternative sources of supply if we lose any of these sources. We cannot predict if we will be able to obtain replacement suppliers within the time frames that we require at an affordable cost, if at all. In addition, credit constraints of key suppliers could result in accelerated payment of accounts payable by us, impacting our cash flow. Customers’ Inability to Obtain Financing to Make Purchases from us and/or Maintain Their Business: Some of our customers may require substantial financing in order to fund their operations and make purchases from us. The inability of these customers to obtain sufficient credit to finance purchases of our products, or otherwise meet their payment obligations to us could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if the financial crisis results in insolvencies for our customers, it could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. These significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions in the United States credit markets have also caused the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. Continued uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact the Company’s ability to access debt financing or to refinance existing debt maturities on favorable terms (or at all), which may negatively affect its ability to fund current and future programs. A prolonged downturn in the credit markets may cause the Company to seek alternative sources of potentially 12 Table of Contents less attractive financing, and may require the Company to adjust its business plan accordingly. These events in the credit markets have also had an adverse effect on other financial markets in the United States, which may make it more difficult or costly for the Company to raise capital through the issuance of Common Stock, preferred stock or other equity securities. If the Company cannot raise adequate funds on acceptable terms, or at all, then its business could be materially harmed. Our Common Stock Will Not Be Traded On A National Security Exchange and We Will Suspend Our Reporting Obligations with the SEC On March 16, 2009, the Board of Directors of AAII unanimously voted to delist its Common Stock (“Common Stock”), from The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC (“NASDAQ”) and to voluntarily terminate the registration of its Common Stock under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). In connection therewith, the Company notified NASDAQ on March 17, 2009 of the Company’s intention to file a Form 25 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on or about March 31, 2009 in order to voluntarily delist its Common Stock. On March 31, 2009, AAII filed a Form 25 with the SEC to delist its Common Stock from NASDAQ and to deregister its Common Stock with the SEC under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act. By operation of law, the delisting will become effective on April 10, 2009. Additionally, on March 30, 2009, the Company filed with the SEC post-effective amendments to its registration statements on Form S-8 in order to remove from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 any of the securities that remained unsold under each such registration statement as of March 30, 2009. In the event the Company has 300 or more stockholders of record as of the end of any fiscal year in the future, it may be required to resume its reporting obligations with the SEC. On April 10, 2009, the effective date of the delisting of the Company’s Common Stock from NASDAQ, the Company intends to file a Form 15 with the SEC in order to deregister its Common Stock with the SEC under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and to suspend AAII’s reporting obligations under the Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. The Company is eligible to file a Form 15 to deregister its Common Stock under Section 12(g) and to suspend its reporting obligations under Section 15(d) because it had fewer than 300 holders of record of its Common Stock as of January 1, 2009. Upon filing of the Form 15 with the SEC, the Company’s obligations to file certain reports with the SEC, including Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, will be suspended immediately. Additionally, the Company expects the deregistration of its Common Stock with the SEC under Section 12 of the Exchange Act to become effective 90 days after filing the Form 15 with the SEC. Once our Common Stock is delisted from NASDAQ, we do not intend to list the Common Stock on another national securities exchange. Once delisted, it is possible that the Common Stock will be traded on the Pink Sheets electronic quotation service (the “Pink Sheets”). The trading of our Common Stock in the Pink Sheets rather than on NASDAQ may reduce the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. Purchasers of shares of our Common Stock may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. Furthermore, because of the limited market and generally low volume of trading in our Common Stock, our Common Stock is more likely to be affected by broad market fluctuations, general market conditions, fluctuations in our operating results, changes in the market’s perception of our business, and announcements made by us, our competitors or parties with whom we have business relationships. Additionally, stocks that trade in the Pink Sheets are no longer eligible for margin loans, and a company trading in the Pink Sheets cannot avail itself of federal preemption of state securities or “blue sky” laws, which adds substantial compliance costs to securities issuances, including pursuant to employee option plans, stock purchase plans and private or public offerings of securities. Our ability to issue additional securities for financing or other purposes, or to otherwise arrange for any financing we may need in the future, may also be materially and adversely affected by the fact that our securities will not be traded on a national securities exchange. The fact that our Common Stock will not be traded on a national securities exchange could also have other adverse effects on us in addition to the foregoing, including, without limitation, the loss of confidence in us by current and prospective suppliers, customers, employees and others with whom we have or may seek to initiate business relationships. 13 Table of Contents The Company’s Markets are Highly Competitive and Some of its Competitors Have Greater Resources than the Company. The aircraft maintenance and modification services industry is highly competitive, and the Company expects that the competition will continue to intensify. Some of the Company’s private-sector competitors are larger and more established companies with strategic advantages, including greater financial resources and greater name recognition. The Company’s competition for military aircraft maintenance includes Boeing Aerospace Support Center, Lockheed-Martin Aircraft and Logistics Center, L-3 Communications and various military depots. If the Company is unable to compete effectively against any of these entities it could materially harm its business and impair the value of its Common Stock. The Company is a Party to Legal Proceedings that Could be Costly to Resolve. The Company is exposed to legal claims relating to the services it provides. The Company is currently a party to several legal proceedings, including breach of contract claims and claims based on the Company’s employment practices. While the Company maintains insurance covering many risks from its business, the insurance may not cover all relevant claims or may not provide sufficient coverage. If the Company’s insurance coverage does not cover all costs resulting from these claims, an adverse determination on these claims could materially harm the Company’s business and impair the value of its Common Stock. The Company Could Incur Significant Costs and Expenses Related to Environmental Problems. Various federal, state, and local laws and regulations require property owners or operators to pay for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances located on a property. For example, there are stringent legal requirements applicable to the stripping, cleaning, and painting of aircraft. The Company has previously paid penalties to the EPA for violations of these laws and regulations, and it may be required to pay additional penalties or remediation costs in the future. These laws and regulations also impose liability on persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances at another location for the costs of removal or remediation of these hazardous substances at the disposal or treatment facility. Further, these laws and regulations often impose liability regardless of whether the entity arranging for the disposal ever owned or operated the disposal facility. As an operator of properties and as potential arrangers for hazardous substance disposal, the Company may be liable under the laws and regulations for removal or remediation costs, governmental penalties, property damage, and related expenses. Payment of any of these costs and expenses could materially harm the Company’s business and impair the value of its Common Stock. In addition, in conjunction with the sale of Pemco World Air Services, Inc., WAS Aviation Services, Inc. (“WAS”) and the Company contracted for division of any environmental liability that may be required to meet applicable remediation standards at the Company’s former Dothan, Alabama facilities such that, in the event significant environmental remediation is required, WAS will bear the risk of the first $1.0 million dollars of such losses and the Company will bear the risk of any such losses in excess of $1.0 million but not to exceed $2.0 million in the aggregate. As a result, WAS would be responsible for all losses in excess of $3.0 million. The funds required to meet the Company’s obligations have been escrowed for a five-year period. The Company May Not Be Able to Hire and Retain a Sufficient Number of Qualified Employees. The Company’s success and growth will depend on its ability to continue to attract and retain skilled personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the aircraft maintenance and modification services industry has been intense. Any failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could materially harm the Company’s business and impair the value of its Common Stock. Failure to negotiate new collective bargaining agreements in the future with unionized employees could materially harm the Company’s business. 14 Table of Contents The Amount and Terms of the Company’s Indebtedness Restrict the Company’s Financial and Operational Flexibility. On February 15, 2006, the Company entered into a Note Purchase Agreement with Silver Canyon Services, Inc. (“Silver Canyon”), pursuant to which it issued to Silver Canyon a senior secured note in the principal amount of $5.0 million (the “Note”). The Note contains customary events of default. The payment of all outstanding principal, interest and other amounts owing under the Note may be declared immediately due and payable upon the occurrence of an event of default as defined by Section 12 of the Note Purchase Agreement. The Company may be unable to locate other lenders at comparable interest rates if an event of default occurs. On July 31, 2006, the Note was purchased by Special Value Bond Fund, LLC, which is managed by Tennenbaum Capital Partners, LLC, a related party of the Company. The Note Purchase Agreement was amended effective December 31, 2008 to change the maturity date of the Note to February 15, 2010. The Company has pledged substantially all of its assets to secure the debt under the Note. If the amounts outstanding under the Note were accelerated, the lender could proceed against those assets. Any event of default, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and impair the value of its Common Stock. Insiders Have Substantial Control Over the Company and Can Significantly Influence Matters Requiring Stockholder Approval. As of December 31, 2008, the Company’s executive officers, directors, and affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 57% of it outstanding Common Stock. As a result, these stockholders are able to significantly influence matters requiring stockholder approval, including election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. This control may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. The Company is Unable to Compete with the Pemco World Air Services, Inc. Business for Three Years from the Date of the Closing. The stock purchase agreement under which the Company sold PWAS includes a non-competition obligation which lasts for a period of three years from the closing of the sale. Under this provision, the Company is not able to engage in the business sold to WAS, except with respect to military customers, for three years following the closing, which occurred on September 19, 2007. This limitation on the scope of the Company’s business operations may adversely effect its business prospects, operating results and financial condition. The Company is Obligated to Indemnify WAS under Certain Circumstances. While the representations and warranties in the stock purchase agreement under which the Company sold PWAS did not survive the closing of the sale, the Company agreed to a limited indemnity for any and all losses incurred by WAS resulting from: • fraud with respect to any representation or warranty made by the Company or PWAS in the stock purchase agreement; • certain tax liabilities; • certain potential environmental remediation costs; and • losses resulting from the litigation between PWAS and GE Capital Aviation Services, Inc. In the event that any such indemnification obligations do arise and are material, this may adversely effect the Company’s business prospects, operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 Table of Contents 