Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE PERFORMANCE You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this report, in your evaluation of us, and our financial condition. Numerous risk factors, including potentially the risk factors described in this section, could cause material harm to the Company’s business and impair the value of its Common Stock. 13 Table of Contents The Company is Heavily Dependent on U.S. Government Contracts. Approximately 53%, 61% and 69% of our revenues from continuing operations in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, were derived from U.S. Government contracts. U.S. Government contracts expose us to a number of risks, including: • Unpredictable contract or project terminations, • Reductions in government funds available for our projects due to government policy changes, budget cuts and contract adjustments, • Disruptions in scheduled workflow due to untimely delivery of equipment and components necessary to perform government contracts, • Penalties arising from post award contract audits, and • Final cost audits in which the value of our contracts may be reduced and may take a substantial number of years to be completed. In addition, substantially all of the Company’s government backlog scheduled for delivery can be terminated at the convenience of the U.S. Government since orders are often placed well before delivery, and its contracts typically provide that orders may be terminated with limited or no penalties. If the Company is unable to address any of the above risks, its business could be materially harmed and the value of its Common Stock could be impaired. A Significant Portion of the Company’s Revenues is Derived From a Few of its Contracts, and the Termination or Failure to Renew Any of Them Could Materially Harm the Company’s Business. A small number of the Company’s contracts account for a significant percentage of its revenues. Contracts with the U.S. Government comprised 53%, 61% and 69% of the Company’s revenues from continuing operations during 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The USAF KC-135 program in and of itself comprised 45%, 53% and 62% of the Company’s total revenues from continuing operations in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and a contract with Northwest Airlines comprised 16%, 24% and 23% of total revenues from continuing operations during these same respective time periods. Also, a contract with Southwest Airlines comprised 10% of the Company’s total revenues from continuing operations in 2006. Termination of a contract, a dispute over compliance with contract terms, a disruption of any of these contracts (including option years not being exercised), or the inability of the Company to renew or replace any of these contracts when they expire, could materially harm its business and impair the value of its Common Stock. In May 2005, the USAF decided to re-compete the KC-135 PDM program. The Company submitted a proposal to the USAF as a subcontractor/partner with Boeing LSS for the KC-135 program. On June 6, 2006, the Company was notified by Boeing that Boeing was terminating a Memorandum of Agreement (“MOA”) among Boeing, L3/IS Integrated Systems (“L3”) and Pemco’s Birmingham, Alabama subsidiary, Pemco Aeroplex, Inc. Under the previously announced MOA, the companies had agreed on a teaming arrangement to compete for the KC-135 PDM program. In the termination notice, Boeing asserted that it received notice of an amendment to the request for proposal for the KC-135 program reducing the requested quantities of aircraft, and that the reduction would be so unfavorable to Boeing that further participation in the program pursuant to the MOA would no longer be practical or financially viable. The Company and Boeing are currently teamed on the KC-135 Bridge Contract through the government fiscal year ending September 30, 2007, which remains unaffected by the termination. The Company submitted a proposal as a prime contractor for the KC-135 PDM program in September 2006. An award announcement is expected during the second quarter of 2007. If the Company’s proposal for the KC-135 PDM program is unsuccessful, or if the award is significantly delayed, it could have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition, materially harm the Company’s business and impair the value of its Common Stock. 14 Table of Contents If the Company’s Customers Experience Financial or Other Difficulties, the Company’s Business Could Be Materially Harmed. A number of the Company’s commercial customers, including Northwest Airlines, have in the past, and may in the future, experience significant financial difficulties, including bankruptcy. Many of these customers face risks that are similar to those encountered by the Company, including risks associated with market conditions, competition, government regulations, and the ability to obtain sufficient capital. There can be no assurance that these customers will be successful in managing these risks. If the Company’s customers do not successfully manage these risks, its ability to generate revenues and collect amounts due from these customers may be impaired, and its business materially harmed. Northwest Airlines filed a petition for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in the third quarter of 2005. As a result, the Company recorded charges of $1.5 million to provide for pre-petition Northwest Airlines receivables. During the second quarter of 2006, the Company reversed $0.6 million of the $1.5 million charge to reflect the net realizable value of the receivables based on purchase offers from unrelated third parties. The Company sold the receivables related to the Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing during the third quarter of 2006 for $0.6 million. The Company Faces Risks from Downturns in the Domestic and Global Economies. The domestic and global economies have experienced downturns that have had significant effects on markets that the Company serves, particularly the airline industry. The depth or duration of such downturns cannot be predicted, and the Company’s ability to increase or maintain its revenues and operating results may be impaired as a result of negative general economic conditions. Further, because current domestic and global economic conditions fluctuate, it is difficult to estimate the growth in various parts of the economy, including the markets in which the Company participates. Because parts of the Company’s budgeting and forecasting are reliant on estimates of growth in the markets it serves, the current economic uncertainty renders estimates of future revenues and expenditures even more difficult than usual to formulate. The future direction of the overall domestic and global economies could have a significant impact on the Company’s overall financial performance and impair the value of its Common Stock. The Company’s Markets are Highly Competitive and Some of its Competitors Have Greater Resources than the Company. The aircraft maintenance and modification services industry is highly competitive, and we expect that the competition will continue to intensify. Some of our competitors are larger and more established companies with strategic advantages, including greater financial resources and greater name recognition. In addition, we are facing increased competition from entities located outside of the United States and entities that are affiliated with commercial airlines. Our competition for military aircraft maintenance includes Boeing Aerospace Support Center, Lockheed-Martin Aircraft and Logistics Center, L-3 Communications, and various military depots. Our competition for outsourced commercial work in the United States consists of the Goodrich Airframe Services Division, Timco Aviation Services, and Singapore Technologies (which includes Mobile Aerospace Engineering and San Antonio Aerospace). If we are unable to compete effectively against any of these entities it could materially harm our business and impair the value of our Common Stock. Expansion Into International Markets May Expose the Company to Greater Risks. Our continuing efforts to increase revenue and improve operating results and stockholder value includes seeking sales opportunities in international markets. During 2006 and 2005, foreign sales comprised 7% and 4% of total revenues, respectively, though such sales could comprise an increasingly larger percentage of revenues in the future. We believe there are a number of factors inherent in these markets that may expose us to significantly greater risk than domestic markets, including: foreign exchange exposure, local economic and market conditions, less regulation of patents or other safeguards of intellectual property, potential political unrest, difficulty in 15 Table of Contents collecting receivables, and inability to rely on local government aid to enforce standard business practices. These factors, or others we have not currently identified, could materially harm our business and impair the value of our Common Stock. The Company is a Party to Legal Proceedings that Could be Costly to Resolve. The Company is exposed to legal claims relating to the services it provides. The Company is currently a party to several legal proceedings, including breach of contract claims and claims based on the Company’s employment practices. While the Company maintains insurance covering many risks from its business, the insurance may not cover all relevant claims or may not provide sufficient coverage. If the Company’s insurance coverage does not cover all costs resulting from these claims, an adverse determination on these claims could materially harm the Company’s business and impair the value of its Common Stock. The Company Could Incur Significant Costs and Expenses Related to Environmental Problems. Various federal, state, and local laws and regulations require property owners or operators to pay for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances located on a property. For example, there are stringent legal requirements applicable to the stripping, cleaning, and painting of aircraft. We have previously paid penalties to the EPA for violations of these laws and regulations, and we may be required to pay additional penalties or remediation costs in the future. These laws and regulations also impose liability on persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances at another location for the costs of removal or remediation of these hazardous substances at the disposal or treatment facility. Further, these laws and regulations often impose liability regardless of whether the entity arranging for the disposal ever owned or operated the disposal facility. As operators of properties and as potential arrangers for hazardous substance disposal, we may be liable under the laws and regulations for removal or remediation costs, governmental penalties, property damage, and related expenses. Payment of any of these costs and expenses could materially harm our business and impair the value of our Common Stock. The Company May Not Be Able to Hire and Retain a Sufficient Number of Qualified Employees. Our success and growth will depend on our ability to continue to attract and retain skilled personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the aircraft maintenance and modification services industry has been intense. Any failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could materially harm our business and impair the value of our Common Stock. Failure to negotiate new collective bargaining agreements in the future with unionized employees could materially harm our business. The Company May Need Additional Financing to Maintain its Business Which May or May Not Be Available. On October 12, 2006, the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (“Amended Credit Agreement”) with its lenders, Wachovia Bank and Compass Bank. The Amended Credit Agreement: • extended the maturity date of the Revolving Credit Facility to August 31, 2007, • maintained the maximum principal amount of the Revolving Credit Facility at $28.0 million including any unused letters of credit, • provided for an increase in the maximum principal amount of the Revolving Credit Facility to $31.0 million if the Company is awarded the new KC-135 contract, • provided for an increase in the borrowing base by increasing eligible Work-in-Process Inventory from 50% to 65%, 16 Table of Contents • changed the interest rate on the Revolving Credit Facility to a rate ranging from LIBOR plus 1.5% to LIBOR plus 6.0% determined on quarterly earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) as defined in the Amended Credit Agreement, and • established new debt covenants as follows: i) Beginning with the quarter ending December 31, 2006, maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of not less than 1.0 to 1.0, to be tested at each quarter-end thereafter on a cumulative basis commencing October 1, 2006 and ending on the last day of the respective quarter-end. ii) At all times, maintain a ratio of adjusted liabilities to adjusted tangible net worth of not more than 2.5 to 1.0. iii) Achieve a cumulative EBITDA of not less than $0.4 million for the period from September 1, 2006 to September 30, 2006; $2.85 million for the period from September 1, 2006 to December 31, 2006; $3.75 million for the period from September 1, 2006 to March 31, 2007; and $6.0 million for the period from September 1, 2006 to June 30, 2007. There can be no assurances that the Company will satisfy all debt covenants or that the availability under the Revolving Credit Facility will be sufficient for its continuing operations. If the Company violates the debt covenants, all debt may become due and payable. If additional financing is needed, the Company’s negative results of operations in 2005 and 2004 and the uncertainty of a long-term KC-135 contract will likely make it more difficult and expensive for the Company to raise additional capital that may be necessary to continue its operations. If the Company cannot raise adequate funds on acceptable terms, or at all, the Company’s business could be materially harmed. The Company has received several indications of interest in purchasing its Commercial Services business. The Company has also received an offer from Michael E. Tennenbaum, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company, to either 1) purchase the Commercial Services business for $30.0 million in cash or 2) provide or cause to be provided to the Company financing on commercially reasonable terms in an amount sufficient to refinance all of Pemco’s debt. Mr. Tennenbaum’s offer remains open until the earlier of April 30, 2008 or the sale of the Commercial Services business to a third party. The Board of Directors has appointed the Finance Committee to consider Mr. Tennenbaum’s offer and any other offers expected to be made. The Company anticipates the Finance Committee will evaluate all offers during the second quarter of 2007. The Amount and Terms of the Company’s Indebtedness Restrict the Company’s Financial and Operational Flexibility. The Company’s Amended Credit Agreement contains covenants that restrict, among other things, its ability to borrow money, make particular types of investments, sell assets, merge or consolidate, or make acquisitions. The Amended Credit Agreement also requires the Company to maintain specified financial ratios. The Company’s ability to meet these financial ratios can be affected by events beyond its control, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to meet these ratios. The Company was in violation of various debt covenants in 2006 and 2005, for which the Company obtained waivers from its lenders. The Company’s ability to meet current and future payment obligations, and to satisfy its debt covenants, is dependent upon its ability to improve operating performance, obtain additional financing from current or alternative lenders, or a combination of the above items. There can be no assurances that the Company will satisfy all debt covenants, that it will be able to obtain waivers from its lenders if in violation of such covenants, or that the availability under the Revolving Credit Facility will be sufficient for its continuing operations. If the Company violates the debt covenants, all debt may become due and payable, which could materially harm its business and impair the value of its Common Stock. 17 Table of Contents On February 15, 2006, the Company entered into a Note Purchase Agreement with Silver Canyon Services, Inc. (“Silver Canyon”), pursuant to which it issued to Silver Canyon a senior secured note in the principal amount of $5.0 million (the “Note”). The Note is subordinate to any debt incurred by the Company under the Revolving Credit Facility with Wachovia Bank and Compass Bank. The Note contains customary events of default consistent with the defined events of default established under the Amended Credit Agreement. The payment of all outstanding principal, interest and other amounts owing under the Note may be declared immediately due and payable upon the occurrence of an event of default, subject to certain standstill provisions with Wachovia and Compass. The Company may be unable to locate other lenders at comparable interest rates if an event of default occurs. On July 31, 2006, the Note was purchased by Special Value Bond Fund, LLC, which is managed by Tennenbaum Capital Partners, LLC, a related party of the Company. The Note Purchase Agreement was amended on February 15, 2007 to extend the maturity date of the Note to the earlier of (i) February 15, 2008, or (ii) the date on which amounts outstanding under the Company’s Revolving Credit Facility become due and payable. The Company has pledged substantially all of its assets to secure the debt under the Amended Credit Agreement with Wachovia and Compass and the Note with Special Value Bond Fund, LLC. If the amounts outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement or the Note were accelerated, the lenders could proceed against those assets. Any event of default, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and impair the value of its Common Stock. Failure to Introduce New Services in Response to Technological Advances and Evolving Industry Standards Could Materially Harm the Company’s Business. Evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements characterize the aircraft maintenance and modification services industry. The introduction of new aircraft embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing services obsolete and cause us to incur significant development and labor costs. Failure to introduce new services and enhancements to our existing services in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements could materially harm our business and impair the value of our Common Stock. The Company’s Trust for its Defined Benefit Plan is Under-Funded and Subject to Financial Market Forces. The Company maintains a Defined Benefit Plan (the “Pension Plan”), which covers substantially all employees at its Birmingham and Dothan, Alabama facilities. The Pension Plan’s assets consist primarily of equity mutual funds, bond mutual funds, hedge funds, and cash equivalents. These assets are exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit, and overall market volatility. As a result of unfavorable investment returns related to the Pension Plan during 2001 and 2002, partially offset by favorable returns in 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006, coupled with an increase in actuarial liability resulting from lower interest rates and the terms of new collective bargaining agreements entered into in 2005, the Pension Plan was under-funded by approximately $18.8 million at December 31, 2006. Any losses on the Pension Plan’s assets may lead to an increase in the amount of the shortfall. In 2007, the Company expects that the minimum required contribution to the Pension Plan will be approximately $11.7 million. Unless and until the Pension Plan under-funding is remedied sufficiently, the making of minimum required contributions may adversely affect the Company’s liquidity and cash flow, which could materially harm its business and impair the value of its Common Stock. The Company Faces Potential Product Liability Claims. The Company may be exposed to legal claims relating to the products it sells or the services it provides. The Company’s agreements with its customers generally contain terms designed to limit its exposure to potential product liability claims. The Company also maintains a product liability insurance policy for its business. However, the insurance may not cover all relevant claims or may not provide sufficient coverage. If the insurance coverage does not cover all costs resulting from future product liability claims, these claims could materially harm the Company’s business and impair the value of its Common Stock. 18 Table of Contents The Company’s Business is Subject to Extensive Government Regulation. The aircraft maintenance and modification services industry is subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements that result in significant costs. The FAA from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and modification of aircraft that require significant expenditures. Regulatory changes could materially harm the Company’s business by making its current services less attractive or obsolete, or increasing the opportunity for additional competition. Changes in, or the failure to comply with, applicable regulations could materially harm the Company’s business and impair the value of its Common Stock. The Company Has Implemented Anti-Takeover Provisions that Could Prevent an Acquisition of its Business at a Premium Price. Some of the provisions of the Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of its business at a premium price. These provisions: • Permit the Board of Directors to increase its own size and fill the resulting vacancies, • Provide for a board comprised of three classes of directors with each class serving a staggered three-year term, • Authorize the issuance of preferred stock in one or more series, and • Prohibit stockholder action by written consent. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between the Company and any holder of 15% or more of its Common Stock. Compliance with Changing Regulation of Corporate Governance and Public Disclosure May Result in Additional Expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, and Nasdaq Stock Market rules have led to increased administrative costs. The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, the Company believes that it has invested and will continue to invest reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities, which could harm its business and impair the value of its Common Stock. Insiders Have Substantial Control Over the Company and Can Significantly Influence Matters Requiring Stockholder Approval. As of December 31, 2006, the Company’s executive officers, directors, and affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 45.9% of its outstanding Common Stock. As a result, these stockholders are able to significantly influence matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. This control may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. The Company Has Material Weaknesses in its Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. During the audit of the 2004 financial statements, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm identified the following material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting: • lack of appropriate controls to timely record liabilities for services performed in 2004 for which the invoices were not processed at December 31, 2004, 19 Table of Contents • lack of appropriate analysis and support for inventory matters, • lack of appropriate analysis and support for payroll accruals, • lack of adequate evaluation of leasehold improvements placed in service from 1982 to 2001, and • lack of segregation of duties related to system access controls. During the audit of the 2005 financial statements, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm identified the following material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting: • significant deficiencies in the posting of physical inventory results and in adherence with its inventory costing methodology resulted in a material weakness in controls over inventory at the Pemco Aeroplex subsidiary, and • the process for determining adequate information with regards to estimating costs to complete certain contracts for the purpose of projecting losses on contracts was insufficient. During the audit of the 2006 financial statements, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm identified a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting due to the resignation of the Director of Corporate Accounting and Manager of Financial Reporting in December 2006 which created a lack of resources in the financial close and reporting process. In addition, it was noted that the Chief Financial Officer had the ability to make journal entries although no entries were made during the year ended December 31, 2006. As a result of the lack of financial reporting resources, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm identified miscellaneous audit adjustments. The Company added temporary resources to compensate for the departure of the accounting personnel. Although the Company has taken and is continuing to undertake a number of initiatives to address these material weaknesses, the existence of a material weakness is an indication that there is more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of its financial statements will not be prevented or detected timely in the current or any future period. In addition, the Company may in the future identify other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in its internal control over financial reporting that it has not discovered to date. Furthermore, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, requires the Company’s auditors to audit both the design and operating effectiveness of its internal controls and management’s assessment of the design and the effectiveness of its internal controls. If the Company is unable to remediate all material weaknesses in sufficient time to permit testing of its documentation and remediation efforts relating to these material weaknesses, its auditors may disclaim an opinion or issue an adverse opinion on the operating effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting or on management’s assessment of their effectiveness, when Section 404 becomes applicable. A disclaimer or an adverse opinion on internal controls could materially impair the value of the Company’s Common Stock. Failure to Sell the Commercial Services Business Could Materially Harm the Company’s Business. In January 2007, the Company engaged advisors to pursue a public offering of 100% of its Commercial Services business on the AIM market in London. The Company is also in discussions with several interested parties regarding the potential sale of its Commercial Services business. Proceeds from a public offering or private sale are expected to be used to reduce debt of the Company. The Company has received several indications of interest in purchasing its Commercial Services business. The Company has also received an offer from Michael E. Tennenbaum, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company, to either 1) purchase the Commercial Services business for $30.0 million in cash or 2) provide or cause to be provided to the Company financing on commercially reasonable terms in an amount sufficient to refinance all of Pemco’s debt. Mr. Tennenbaum’s offer remains open until the earlier of April 30, 2008 or the sale of the Commercial Services business to a third party. The Board of Directors has appointed the Finance Committee to consider Mr. Tennenbaum’s offer and any other offers expected to be made. The Company anticipates the Finance Committee will evaluate all offers during the second quarter of 2007. Failure to sell the Commercial Services business on favorable terms, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, materially harm the Company’s business and impair the value of the Company’s Common Stock. 20 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 