Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE PERFORMANCE You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this report, in your evaluation of the Company, and its financial condition. Numerous risk factors, including potentially the risk factors described in this section, could cause material harm to the Company’s business and impair the value of its Common Stock. The Company is Heavily Dependent on U.S. Government Contracts. Substantially all of the Company’s revenues from continuing operations in 2007 and 2006 were derived directly or indirectly from U.S. Government contracts or subcontracts. U.S. Government contracts expose the Company to a number of risks, including: • Unpredictable contract or project terminations; • Reductions in government funds available for the Company’s projects due to government policy changes, budget cuts and contract adjustments; • Disruptions in scheduled workflow due to untimely delivery of equipment and components necessary to perform government contracts; • Penalties arising from post award contract audits; and • Final cost audits in which the value of the Company’s contracts may be reduced and may take a substantial number of years to be completed. In addition, substantially all of the Company’s backlog scheduled for delivery can be terminated at the convenience of the U.S. Government since orders are often placed well before delivery, and its contracts typically provide that orders may be terminated with limited or no penalties. If the Company is unable to address any of the above risks, the Company’s business could be materially harmed and the value of its Common Stock could be impaired. All of the Company’s Revenues is Derived From a Few Contracts, and the Termination or Failure to Renew Any of Them Could Materially Harm the Company’s Business. A small number of contracts account for all of the Company’s revenues. Contracts with the U.S. Government comprised approximately 100% of the Company’s revenues from continuing operations during 2007 and 2006. The USAF KC-135 PDM program in and of itself comprised 66% and 74% of the Company’s total revenues from continuing operations during 2007 and 2006, respectively. Termination of a contract, a dispute over compliance with contract terms, a disruption of any of these contracts (including option years not being exercised), or the inability of the Company to renew or replace any of these contracts when they expire, could materially harm its business and impair the value of its Common Stock. Boeing LSS and AAII-Birmingham agreed to continue as partners on the KC-135 PDM program during August 2005. This agreement resulted from the USAF decision to re-compete the KC-135 PDM contract. In the spring of 2006, the USAF changed the best estimated quantity (“BEQ”) for the competition for the follow-on contract from 44 to 24 aircraft annually. With this reduction, Boeing purported to terminate the Boeing/AAII-Birmingham teaming agreement. The Company requested, and the government agreed, to open the competition to additional potential suppliers. GSS developed an independent proposal which was submitted to the USAF in September 2006. A Request for a Final Proposal Revision was released by the USAF in mid-January 2007, to which the Company responded on February 23, 2007. The Company’s proposal for the KC-135 PDM program was unsuccessful as the contract was awarded to Boeing in September 2007. The Company filed a protest with the Government Accountability Office (“GAO”) and the contract was stayed for 100 days pending the results of the protest. On December 27, 2007 the GAO upheld in part the Company’s protest on the basis that the USAF failed to conduct a proper analysis of Boeing’s cost/price proposal for realism or potential risk. The USAF filed a Request for Reconsideration on January 7, 2008, which was denied by the GAO on February 1, 2008. On March 3, 2008, the USAF advised the Company that in response to the recommendation by the GAO it had completed additional review, documentation and a new award decision and that the Company’s proposal was not selected for award. Company officials attended a debriefing from the USAF on the new award decision on March 7, 2008. The Company filed a protest on the new award decision on March 11, 2008 as to the USAF’s lack of proper evaluation to meet GAO recommendations and sudden post-award change of work scope under the contract recompete. If the protest does not result in a positive outcome for the 9 Table of Contents Company, it could have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition and prospects, materially harm the Company’s business and impair the value of its Common Stock. The Company’s Trust for its Defined Benefit Plan is Under-Funded and Subject to Financial Market Forces. The Company maintains a Defined Benefit Plan (the “Pension Plan”), which covers substantially all employees at its Birmingham, Alabama facilities. The Pension Plan’s assets consist primarily of equity mutual funds, bond mutual funds, hedge funds, and cash equivalents. These assets are exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit, and overall market volatility. At December 31, 2007, the Pension Plan was underfunded by $9.2 million. Changes in investment returns, discount assumptions, mortality assumptions or benefit obligations may have a significant impact on the funded status of the Pension Plan. Unless and until the Pension Plan under-funding is remedied sufficiently, the making of minimum required contributions may adversely affect the Company’s liquidity and cash flow, which could materially harm its business and impair the value of its Common Stock. The Company does not have sufficient cash to make the required contributions to the Pension Plan without negatively impacting the cash and liquidity of the Company by the end of 2008. Therefore, the Company applied on February 29, 2008 to the Internal Revenue Service for a waiver of contributions through December 31, 2008. Without a waiver of contributions, the Company would be required to contribute approximately $3.7 million for the 2007 plan year by September 15, 2008. Contribution calculations for the 2008 plan year have not been completed. The Company currently estimates that the quarterly payments for the 2008 plan year will be approximately $1.1 million to $1.2 million with the first quarterly payment due April 15, 2008. There are no assurances that the waiver will be granted. If the waiver is not granted, the Company will not have sufficient internal resources to fund operations for the next twelve months and will have to pursue external financing which may or may not be available. The Company May Need Additional Financing to Maintain its Business Which May or May Not Be Available The Company is proposing and is expecting to propose on several programs in the next twelve months. If the Company is successful in winning some or all of these programs, additional financing may be needed to fund working capital requirements related to the buildup of accounts receivable and inventory on the projects. If additional financing is needed, the Company’s recent negative results of operations and the uncertainties regarding future contract awards will likely make it more difficult and expensive for the Company to raise additional capital that may be necessary to continue its operations. In addition, the United States credit markets have recently experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions which have caused the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. Continued uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact the Company’s ability to access debt financing or to refinance existing debt maturities on favorable terms (or at all), which may negatively affect its ability to fund current and future programs. A prolonged downturn in the credit markets may case the Company to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require the Company to adjust its business plan accordingly. These events in the credit markets have also had an adverse effect on other financial markets in the United States, which may make it more difficult or costly for the Company to raise capital through the issuance of common stock, preferred stock or other equity securities. If the Company cannot raise adequate funds on acceptable terms, or at all, then its business could be materially harmed. The Company’s Markets are Highly Competitive and Some of its Competitors Have Greater Resources than the Company. The aircraft maintenance and modification services industry is highly competitive, and the Company expects that the competition will continue to intensify. Some of the Company’s private-sector competitors are larger and more established companies with strategic advantages, including greater financial resources and greater name recognition. The Company’s competition for military aircraft maintenance includes Boeing Aerospace Support Center, Lockheed-Martin Aircraft and Logistics Center, L-3 Communications and various military depots. If the Company is unable to compete effectively against any of these entities it could materially harm its business and impair the value of its Common Stock. The Company is a Party to Legal Proceedings that Could be Costly to Resolve. The Company is exposed to legal claims relating to the services it provides. The Company is currently a party to several legal proceedings, including breach of contract claims and claims based on the Company’s employment practices. While the Company maintains insurance covering many risks from its business, the insurance may not cover all relevant claims or may not provide sufficient coverage. If the Company’s insurance coverage does not cover all costs resulting from these claims, an 10 Table of Contents adverse determination on these claims could materially harm the Company’s business and impair the value of its Common Stock. The Company Could Incur Significant Costs and Expenses Related to Environmental Problems. Various federal, state, and local laws and regulations require property owners or operators to pay for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances located on a property. For example, there are stringent legal requirements applicable to the stripping, cleaning, and painting of aircraft. The Company has previously paid penalties to the EPA for violations of these laws and regulations, and it may be required to pay additional penalties or remediation costs in the future. These laws and regulations also impose liability on persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances at another location for the costs of removal or remediation of these hazardous substances at the disposal or treatment facility. Further, these laws and regulations often impose liability regardless of whether the entity arranging for the disposal ever owned or operated the disposal facility. As an operator of properties and as potential arrangers for hazardous substance disposal, the Company may be liable under the laws and regulations for removal or remediation costs, governmental penalties, property damage, and related expenses. Payment of any of these costs and expenses could materially harm the Company’s business and impair the value of its Common Stock. In addition, in conjunction with the sale of Pemco World Air Services, Inc., WAS Aviation Services, Inc. (“WAS”) and the Company contracted for division of any environmental liability that may be required to meet applicable remediation standards at the Company’s former Dothan, Alabama facilities such that, in the event significant environmental remediation is required, WAS will bear the risk of the first $1.0 million of such losses and the Company will bear the risk of any such losses in excess of $1.0 million but not to exceed $2.0 million in the aggregate. As a result, WAS would be responsible for all losses in excess of $3.0 million. The funds required to meet the Company’s obligations have been escrowed for a five-year period. The Company May Not Be Able to Hire and Retain a Sufficient Number of Qualified Employees. The Company’s success and growth will depend on its ability to continue to attract and retain skilled personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the aircraft maintenance and modification services industry has been intense. Any failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could materially harm the Company’s business and impair the value of its Common Stock. Substantial layoffs of personnel have occurred while awaiting the outcome of the protest of the USAF award of the new KC-135 PDM contract to Boeing. Failure to negotiate new collective bargaining agreements in the future with unionized employees could materially harm the Company’s business. The Amount and Terms of the Company’s Indebtedness Restrict the Company’s Financial and Operational Flexibility. On February 15, 2006, the Company entered into a Note Purchase Agreement with Silver Canyon Services, Inc. (“Silver Canyon”), pursuant to which it issued to Silver Canyon a senior secured note in the principal amount of $5.0 million (the “Note”). The Note contains customary events of default. The payment of all outstanding principal, interest and other amounts owing under the Note may be declared immediately due and payable upon the occurrence of an event of default as defined by Section 12 of the Note Purchase Agreement. The Company may be unable to locate other lenders at comparable interest rates if an event of default occurs. On July 31, 2006, the Note was purchased by Special Value Bond Fund, LLC, which is managed by Tennenbaum Capital Partners, LLC, a related party of the Company. The Note Purchase Agreement was amended on July 31, 2007 to change the maturity date of the Note to February 15, 2009. The Company has pledged substantially all of its assets to secure the debt under the Note with Special Value Bond Fund, LLC. If the amounts outstanding under the Note were accelerated, the lender could proceed against those assets. Any event of default, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and impair the value of its Common Stock. Insiders Have Substantial Control Over the Company and Can Significantly Influence Matters Requiring Stockholder Approval. As of March 20, 2008, the Company’s executive officers, directors, and affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 57.4% of the outstanding Common Stock. As a result, these stockholders are able to significantly influence matters requiring stockholder approval, including election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. This control may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. 11 Table of Contents The Company Has Material Weaknesses in its Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. During the audit of the 2006 financial statements, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm identified a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting due to the resignation of the Director of Corporate Accounting and Manager of Financial Reporting in December 2006 which created a lack of resources in the financial close and reporting process. In addition, it was noted that the Chief Financial Officer had the ability to make journal entries although no entries were made during the year ended December 31, 2006. As a result of the lack of financial reporting resources, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm identified miscellaneous audit adjustments. The Company added temporary resources to compensate for the departure of the accounting personnel. The Company has continued to experience a significant level of turnover of financial personnel in 2007 and has experienced a reduction of full-time finance employees. The Company has determined that the material weakness due to the lack of financial resources remains at December 31, 2007. Although the Company has taken and is continuing to undertake a number of initiatives to address these material weaknesses, the existence of a material weakness is an indication that there is more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of its financial statements will not be prevented or detected timely in the current or any future period. In addition, the Company may in the future identify other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in its internal control over financial reporting that it has not discovered to date. The Company is Unable to Compete with the Pemco World Air Services, Inc. Business for Three Years from the Date of the Closing. The stock purchase agreement under which the Company sold PWAS includes a non-competition obligation which lasts for a period of three years from the closing of the sale. Under this provision, the Company is not able to engage in the business sold to WAS, except with respect to military customers, for three years following the closing, which occurred on September 19, 2007. Additionally, the Company is not able to recruit or solicit employees of PWAS to terminate their employment for a one year period following the September 19, 2007 closing. These limitations on the scope of the Company’s business operations may adversely effect its business prospects, operating results and financial condition. The Company is Obligated to Indemnify WAS under Certain Circumstances. While the representations and warranties in the stock purchase agreement under which the Company sold PWAS did not survive the closing of the sale, the Company agreed to a limited indemnity for any and all losses incurred by WAS resulting from: • fraud with respect to any representation or warranty made by the Company or PWAS in the stock purchase agreement; • certain tax liabilities; • certain potential environmental remediation costs; and • losses resulting from the litigation between PWAS and GE Capital Aviation Services, Inc. In the event that any such indemnification obligations do arise and are material, this may adversely effect the Company’s business prospects, operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 