Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known or those we currently consider insignificant may also impair our business operations in the future. We historically have lost money, expect losses for the foreseeable future, require significant capital and may never achieve profitability. We historically have lost money. For the fiscal years ended April 30, 2009 and 2008, the Company had a net loss of $2,242,000 and $411,000, respectively. As of April 30, 2009, the Company has an accumulated deficit of $9,757,000. The amount of these losses may vary significantly from year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter and will depend on, among other factors: • the timing and cost of development for our preclinical platform, products and technology; • the progress and cost of preclinical and possibly early phase clinical development programs; • the cost of building out our Preclinical eValuation Tumorgraft platform; • the cost and rate of progress toward growing our Personalized Oncology service businesses; • the cost of securing and defending our intellectual property; • the timing and cost of obtaining necessary regulatory approvals; • the cost of expanding and building out the infrastructure of our U.S. and overseas operations; • the cost incurred in hiring and maintaining qualified personnel; and • the costs of any future litigation of which we may be subject. • the cost of adopting the provisions of section 404 fo the Sarbenes-Oxley Act. Currently, the Company derives revenue from two sources: Personalized Oncology Services and Preclinical eValuation Services, while we pursue drug development contracts. All of these business activities require significant capital expenditures, and we have limited sources of revenue to off-set such expenditures. Accordingly, we expect to generate operating losses in the future until such time as we are able to generate more significant revenues. To become profitable, we will need to generate revenues to off-set our operating costs, including our general and administrative expenses. We may not achieve or, if achieved, sustain our revenue or profit objectives, and our losses may increase in the future, and, ultimately, we may have to cease operations. In order to grow revenues, we must invest capital to successfully develop our drug candidates and expand our Preclinical eValuation Tumorgraft platform. Our products may never achieve market acceptance and we may never generate significant revenues or achieve profitability. If we must devote a substantial amount of time to raising capital, it will delay our ability to achieve our business goals within the time frames that we now expect, which could increase the amount of capital we need. In addition, the amount of time expended by our management on fund raising distracts them from concentrating on our business affairs. 6 Table of Contents Our initial proposed drug products are in the early development stages and will likely not be commercially introduced for many years, if at all. Our proposed initial drug products, specifically two Benzoylphenylurea (BPU) sulfur analog compounds are still in the early development stage and will require further development, preclinical and early phase clinical testing and investment prior to our ability to sell, license or partner with pharmaceutical and/or biotechnology companies. Such partnership, divestiture or license agreement may have contingencies for their possible commercialization in the United States and abroad. We cannot be sure that these products in development will: • be successfully developed; • prove to be safe and efficacious in preclinical or clinical trials; • meet applicable regulatory standards or obtain required regulatory approvals; • demonstrate substantial protective or therapeutic benefits in the prevention or treatment of any disease; • be capable of being formulated and/or produced in clinical or commercial quantities at reasonable costs; • obtain coverage and favorable reimbursement rates from insurers and other third-party payors; or • be successfully marketed or achieve market acceptance by physicians and patients. We have never marketed, sold or distributed a product and may need to rely on third parties to successfully market and sell our products and generate revenues. If we were to receive regulatory approval for our drug candidates, we will have to build a marketing function or enter into agreements with contract sales organizations to market our products. Our ability to gain market acceptance and generate revenues will be substantially dependent upon our ability to build a marketing function and /or enter into such agreements on favorable terms and to manage the efforts of those employees or service providers, as the case may be. We have very limited staffing and will continue to be dependent upon key employees. Our success, currently, is dependent upon the efforts of 11 employees, the loss of the services of one or more of which could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial condition. We intend to continue to develop our management team and attract and retain qualified personnel in all functional areas to expand and grow our business. This may be difficult in the biotechnology industry where competition for skilled personnel is intense, even as the United States sees an overall downturn in its economy. Because our industry is very competitive and many of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources and more experience in research and development, we may not succeed in developing our products and technologies and having them brought to market. We are engaged in a rapidly changing and highly competitive field. Potential competitors in the United States and abroad are numerous and include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, most of which have substantially greater capital resources and more experience in research and development than us. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA approval or commercializing of similar and competing drug candidates before we do. We will compete with companies with greater marketing and manufacturing capabilities, areas in which we have limited or no experience. We compete in a market that has a less than 10% success rate in bringing new products to market. Academic institutions, hospitals, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are also conducting research and seeking patent protection and may develop and commercially introduce competing products or technologies on their own or through joint ventures. We cannot assure you that our competitors will not succeed in developing similar technologies and products more rapidly than we do, commercially introducing such technologies and products to the marketplace prior to introduction of our products, or that these competing technologies and products will not be more effective or successful than any of those that we currently are developing or will develop. 7 Table of Contents Not only will the Company face competition from well established companies, new companies will likely enter our market as scientific developments surrounding other cancer therapies continue to accelerate in the multibillion dollar oncology marketplace. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may not be able to compete as effectively. It is important in the biotechnology industry to obtain patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to obtain, enjoy and enforce protection for any products we develop or acquire under United States and foreign patent laws and other intellectual property laws, preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Where appropriate, we will seek patent protection for certain aspects of our technology. However, our owned and licensed patents and patent applications may not ensure the protection of our intellectual property for a number of reasons, including: • Our preclinical platform is proprietary and requires significant know-how to both initiate and operate, but is not patented. It is, therefore, possible for competitors to develop other implantation procedures or to discover the same procedures utilized by the Company that could compete with the Company in its market. • If we are successful in obtaining our patents, competitors may interfere with our patents and patent process in a variety of ways. Competitors may claim that they invented the claimed invention before us or may claim that we are infringing on their patents and, therefore, we cannot use our technology as claimed under our patent. Competitors may also have our patents reexamined by showing the patent examiner that the invention was not original or novel or was obvious. • We are in the process of developing our proposed products and technologies. The mere receipt of a patent does not necessarily provide practical protection. If we receive a patent with a narrow scope, then it will be easier for competitors to design products that do not infringe on our patent. Even if the development of our proposed products is successful and approval for sale is obtained, there can be no assurance that applicable patent coverage, if any, will not have expired or will not expire shortly after this approval. Any expiration of the applicable patent could have a material adverse effect on the sales and profitability of our proposed product. • Obtaining and enforcing patents is expensive and may require significant time by our management. In litigation, a competitor could claim that our issued patents are not valid for a number of reasons. If the court agrees, we would lose protection on products covered by those patents. • We also may support and collaborate in research conducted by government organizations or universities. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to acquire any exclusive rights to technology or products derived from these collaborations. Obtaining the required or necessary licenses or rights from such collaborative research can be time consuming and expensive. If we do not obtain required licenses or rights, we could encounter delays in product development while we attempt to design around other patents or we may be prohibited from developing, manufacturing or selling products requiring these licenses. There is also a risk that disputes may arise as to the rights to technology or products developed in collaboration with other parties. • It also is unclear whether efforts to secure our trade secrets will provide useful protection. While we will use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees or consultants may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary information to competitors resulting in a loss of protection. Enforcing a claim that someone else illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets, like patent litigation, is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Finally, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. 8 Table of Contents Claims by others that our products infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights could adversely affect our financial condition. The biotechnology industry has been characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Patent applications are maintained in secrecy in the United States and also are maintained in secrecy outside the United States until the application is published. Accordingly, we can conduct only limited searches to determine whether our technology infringes the patents or patent applications of others. Any claims of patent infringement asserted by third parties would be time-consuming and could likely: • result in costly litigation; • divert the time and attention of our technical personnel and management; • cause product development delays; • require us to develop non-infringing technology; or • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Although patent and intellectual property disputes in the biotechnology industry have often been settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and often require the payment of ongoing royalties, which could hurt our gross margins. In addition, we cannot be sure that the necessary licenses would be available to us on satisfactory terms, or that we could redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement, if necessary. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding, or the failure to obtain necessary licenses, could prevent us from developing, manufacturing and selling some of our products, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. If any of our products that we license or partner with pharmaceutical and/or biotechnology companies fail to obtain regulatory approval or if approval is delayed or withdrawn, we may be unable to generate revenue from the sale or license of our products. Our products are subject to federal, state, local, or foreign legislation or regulation, including the interpretation of and compliance with existing, proposed, and future regulatory requirements imposed by the FDA in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. In the United States, approval of the FDA has to be obtained for each drug to be commercialized. The FDA approval process is typically lengthy and expensive, and approval is never certain. Products to be commercialized abroad are subject to similar foreign government regulation. Generally, only a very small percentage of newly discovered pharmaceutical products that enter preclinical development are approved for sale. Because of the risks and uncertainties in biopharmaceutical development, our proposed drug products could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than we expect or may never gain approval. If regulatory approval is delayed or never obtained, our management’s credibility, the value of our company and our operating results and liquidity might be adversely affected. Furthermore, even if a product gains regulatory approval, the product and the manufacturer of the product may be subject to continuing regulatory review. Even after obtaining regulatory approval, such approval may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. Moreover, a marketed product, its manufacturer, its manufacturing facilities, and its suppliers are subject to continual review and periodic inspections. Discovery of previously unknown problems, or the exacerbation of problems previously deemed acceptable, with the product, manufacturer, or facility may result in restrictions on such product or manufacturer, potentially including withdrawal of the product from the market. 9 Table of Contents Even if our proposed products receive FDA approval, they may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and operating results and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Even if our proposed products obtain required regulatory approvals, the success of those products is dependent upon market acceptance by physicians and patients. Levels of market acceptance for our new products could be impacted by several factors, including: • the availability of alternative products from competitors; • the price of our products relative to that of our competitors; • the timing of our market entry; and • the ability to promote our products effectively against well funded companies that have more experience in the marketing of approved drugs. Some of these factors are not within our control. Our proposed products may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance. Additionally, continuing studies of the proper utilization, safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products are being conducted by the industry, government agencies and others. Such studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety and efficacy of previously marketed products. In some cases, these studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuance of product marketing. These situations, should they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, and the market value of our common stock could decline. Because the biotechnology industry is heavily regulated, we face significant costs and uncertainties associated with our efforts to comply with applicable regulations. Should we fail to comply, we could experience material adverse effects on our business, financial position and results of operations, and the market value of our common stock could decline. The biotechnology industry is subject to regulation by various federal and state governmental authorities. For example, we must comply with FDA requirements with respect to the development of our proposed products and our early clinical trials, and if any of our proposed products are approved, the manufacture, labeling, sale, distribution, marketing, advertising and promotion of our products. Failure to comply with FDA and other governmental regulations can result in fines, disgorgement, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of New Drug Applications (“NDA’s”), enforcement actions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. Under certain circumstances, the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals. Despite our efforts at compliance, there is no guarantee that we may not be deemed to be deficient in some manner in the future. If we were deemed to be deficient in any significant way, our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially affected. If our CRO facility that handles a majority of our Preclinical eValuation studies and Tumorgraft platform development is damaged or destroyed, our business would be negatively affected. We currently utilize a Contract Research Organization (“CRO”) to perform a majority of our tumor studies and develop and bank our tumorgraft platform. If that facility were to be significantly damaged or destroyed, we could suffer a loss of some our ongoing and future drug studies as well as our Tumorgraft bank. While we believe that our CRO has risk management procedures in place and is insured against damage, such an event would delay timelines and require additional time to restore operations back to the baseline. Additional means are being put into place whereby our tumorgraft bank will be housed in two different states to avoid a catastrophic event damaging our tumorgraft bank. 10 Table of Contents Your investment in our common stock may be diluted if we issue additional shares in the future. We may issue additional shares of common stock, which would reduce your percentage ownership and may dilute your share value. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of 50,000,000 shares of common stock. As of August 19, 2009, we had 33,578,903 shares of common stock issued and 32,615,185 shares outstanding. The future issuance of all or part of the remaining authorized common stock would result in substantial dilution in the percentage of the common stock held by existing shareholders. The issuance of common stock for future services or acquisitions or other corporate actions may have the effect of diluting the value of the shares held by existing shareholders, and might have an adverse effect on any trading market for our common stock. There is a limited trading market for our common stock, which may make it difficult for you to sell your shares. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Like many stocks quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, trading in our common stock is thin and characterized by wide fluctuations in trading prices, due to many factors that may have little to do with our operations or business prospects. This volatility could depress the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to operating performance. Moreover, trading on the OTC Bulletin Board is often more sporadic and volatile than the trading on security exchanges like NASDAQ, American Stock Exchange or New York Stock Exchange. Accordingly, you may have difficulty reselling your shares of our common stock in short time periods. Our stock price is volatile. The stock market in general and the market for biotechnology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, investors may not be able to sell their common stock at or above the price they paid for it. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • results of clinical trials of our drug candidates or those of our competitors: • regulatory development in the United States and foreign countries; • variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; • changes in the healthcare payment system; • announcements by us of significant acquisition, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • sales of significant shares of stock by large investors; • significant 8-K disclosures such as a change in management or the need to restate prior audits; • intellectual property, product liability, or other litigation against us; • the loss of a key development partner or CRO; and • the other key facts described in this “Risk Factors” section. Our common stock may be deemed a “penny stock,” which would make it more difficult for you to sell your shares. Our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules adopted under Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). The penny stock rules apply to companies whose common stock is not listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market or another national securities exchange and trades at less than $5.00 per share or that have tangible net worth of less than $5,000,000 ($2,000,000 if the company has been operating for three or more years). These rules require, among other things, that brokers who trade penny stock to persons other than “established customers” complete certain documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with certain information concerning trading in the security, including a risk disclosure document and quote information under certain circumstances. Many brokers have decided not to trade penny stocks because of the requirements of the penny stock rules and, as a result, the number of broker-dealers willing to act as market makers in such securities is limited. If we remain subject to the penny stock rules for any significant period, it could have an adverse effect on the market, if any, for our common stock. Because our common stock is subject to the penny stock rules, you may find it more difficult to dispose of the shares of our common stock that you have purchased. 11 Table of Contents Material weakness or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could harm stockholder and business confidence in our financial reporting, our ability to obtain financing, and other aspects of our business. Our management evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosures controls and procedures as of the fiscal year ended April 30, 2009 and concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of those dates, because of material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. During the 2008 audit, our independent registered public accounting firm identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. This material weakness consisted primarily of inadequate staffing and supervision that could lead to the untimely identification and resolution of accounting and disclosure matters and failure to perform timely and effective reviews. On June 26, 2009 the Company filed a Form 8K disclosing the fact that the Company’s April 30, 2008 Form 10-KSB included financials that could no longer be relied on due to identifying errors in reporting for stock-based compensation. The Company subsequently filed a Form 10-KSB/A in August 2009, detailing the reasons behind the material weakness and restatement. During fiscal 2009, the Company also identified material weaknesses in the application of U.S. GAAP to share based compensation issued to non-employee consultants, accounting for revenue recognition and prepaid costs under the personalized oncology cancer vaccine development services agreements, and the Company’s financial statement close process, which have been discussed in more detail in Item 9A(T). As a result of this restatement and material weaknesses, customers, stockholders and other potential investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting which could adversely impact the availability and cost of capital as well as other aspects of our business. Certain provisions of Delaware law and of our charter and bylaws contain provisions that could delay and discourage takeover attempts and any attempts to replace our current management by shareholders. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and applicable provisions of Delaware corporate law, could make it difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us or changing our Board of Directors and management. These provisions include: • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent; and • requirements that our stockholders comply with advance notice procedures in order to nominate candidates for election to our Board of Directors or to place stockholders’ proposals on the agenda for consideration at meetings of stockholders. Insiders own a significant amount of the outstanding common stock Insiders own a significant amount of our outstanding common stock which could discourage takeover attempts. 