Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known, or those we currently consider insignificant, may also impair our business operations in the future. We historically incurred losses from operating activities, expect losses for the foreseeable future, require significant capital and may never achieve profitability. For the years ended April 30, 2011 and 2010, the Company had a net loss of $3,791,000 and $2,923,000, respectively. As of April 30, 2011, the Company has an accumulated deficit of $16,471,000. The amount of these losses may vary significantly from year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter and will depend on, among other factors: · the timing and cost of development for our preclinical platform, products and technology; · the cost of building out our Tumorgraft Technology Platform; · the cost and rate of progress toward growing our Personalized Oncology Solutions business; · the cost and rate of progress toward building our sales forces; · the cost of acquiring and operating our own laboratory and animal testing facilities; · the cost of securing and defending our intellectual property; · the timing and cost of obtaining necessary regulatory approvals; · the cost of expanding and building out the infrastructure of our United States and overseas operations; and · the cost incurred in hiring and maintaining qualified personnel; Currently, the Company derives revenue from two sources: POS and TOS services, while pursuing development efforts to develop its bioinformatics and Tumorgraft Technology Platform. In addition, we are building our sales and marketing operations to grow our TOS and POS services. Accordingly, we expect to generate operating losses in the future until such time as we are able to generate more significant revenues. 6 To become profitable, we will need to generate revenues to off-set our operating costs, including our research and development and general and administrative expenses. We may not achieve or, if achieved, sustain our revenue or profit objectives. Our losses may increase in the future, and, ultimately, we may have to cease operations. In order to grow revenues, we must invest capital to implement our sales and marketing effort and to successfully develop our bioinformatics and Tumorgraft Technology Platform. Because we do not have a history of commercial efforts, our sales and marketing efforts may never generate significant revenues or achieve profitability. If we must devote a substantial amount of time to raising capital, it will delay our ability to achieve our business goals within the time frames that we now expect, which could increase the amount of capital we need. In addition, the amount of time expended by our management on fundraising distracts them from concentrating on our business affairs. The Company currently uses third party laboratory and animal facilities. Currently, we do not own our own laboratory and animal facility. Although we are in the process of implementing our own laboratory facilities, our cost of out-sourced testing may be higher than if we performed the services on our own. Further, although we have quality control provision in our contracts with such third parties, we may not be assured that the work being performed on our behalf will meet the quality standards and timelines we would have met if we were controlling the work directly within our facility. We have limited experience marketing and selling our services and may need to rely on third parties to successfully market and sell our products and generate revenues. We need to continue building a marketing and sales function or enter into agreements with consultants to market our products. Our ability to gain market acceptance and generate revenues will be substantially dependent upon our ability to successfully market our services and/or enter into such agreements on favorable terms and to manage the efforts of those employees or service providers, as the case may be. If we are not successful in building market share, profitability and our future prospects will not be realized We have very limited staffing and will continue to be dependent upon key employees. Our success, currently, is dependent upon the efforts of 18 full-time employees, the loss of the services of one or more of which would have a material adverse affect on our business and financial condition. We intend to continue to develop our management team and attract and retain qualified personnel in all functional areas to expand and grow our business. This may be difficult in the healthcare industry where competition for skilled personnel is intense, even as the United States has seen an overall downturn in its economy. Because our industry is very competitive and many of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources and more experience in research and development, we may not succeed in developing our products and technologies and having them brought to market. We are engaged in a rapidly changing and highly competitive field. Potential competitors in the United States and abroad are numerous and include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, most of which have substantially greater capital resources and more experience in research and development capabilities. Furthermore, new companies will likely enter our market from the United States and abroad as scientific developments surrounding other cancer therapies continue to accelerate in the multibillion dollar oncology marketplace. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA approval or commercialization of similar competing drug compounds before we do. In addition, academic institutions, hospitals, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are also conducting research, seeking patent protection and may develop and commercially introduce competing products or technologies on their own or through joint ventures. If one or more of our competitors succeed in developing similar technologies and products more rapidly than we do, commercially introducing such technologies and products to the marketplace prior to introduction of our products, or if these competing technologies and products are more effective or successful than any of those that we currently are developing or will develop, our results of operation will be significantly adversely affected. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may not be able to compete as effectively. It is important in the healthcare industry to obtain patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to obtain, enjoy and enforce protection for any products we develop or acquire under United States and foreign patent laws and other intellectual property laws, preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. 7 Where appropriate, we will seek patent protection for certain aspects of our technology. However, our owned and licensed patents and patent applications may not ensure the protection of our intellectual property for a number of reasons, including: · Our Tumorgraft Technology Platform is proprietary and requires significant know-how to both initiate and operate, but is not patented. It is, therefore, possible for competitors to develop other implantation procedures, or to discover the same procedures utilized by us, that could compete with us in our market. · If we are successful in obtaining our patents, competitors may interfere with our patents and patent process in a variety of ways. Competitors may claim that they invented the claimed invention before us or may claim that we are infringing on their patents and, therefore, we cannot use our technology as claimed under our patent. Competitors may also have our patents reexamined by showing the patent examiner that the invention was not original or novel or was obvious. · We are in the process of developing our proposed products and technologies. The mere receipt of a patent does not necessarily provide practical protection. If we receive a patent with a narrow scope, then it will be easier for competitors to design products that do not infringe on our patent. Even if the development of our proposed products is successful and approval for sale is obtained, there can be no assurance that applicable patent coverage, if any, will not have expired or will not expire shortly after this approval. Any expiration of the applicable patent could have a material adverse effect on the sales and profitability of our proposed product. · Obtaining and enforcing patents is expensive and may require significant time by our management. In litigation, a competitor could claim that our issued patents are not valid for a number of reasons. If the court agrees, we would lose protection on products covered by those patents. · We also may support and collaborate in research conducted by government organizations or universities. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to acquire any exclusive rights to technology or products derived from these collaborations. Obtaining the required or necessary licenses or rights from such collaborative research can be time consuming and expensive. If we do not obtain required licenses or rights, we could encounter delays in product development while we attempt to design around other patents or we may be prohibited from developing, manufacturing or selling products requiring these licenses. There is also a risk that disputes may arise as to the rights to technology or products developed in collaboration with other parties. · It also is unclear whether efforts to secure our trade secrets will provide useful protection. While we will use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees or consultants may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary information to competitors resulting in a loss of protection. Enforcing a claim that someone else illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets, like patent litigation, is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Finally, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. Claims by others that our products infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights could adversely affect our financial condition. The healthcare industry has been characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Patent applications are maintained in secrecy in the United States and also are maintained in secrecy outside the United States until the application is published. Accordingly, we can conduct only limited searches to determine whether our technology infringes the patents or patent applications of others. Any claims of patent infringement asserted by third parties would be time-consuming and could likely: · result in costly litigation; · divert the time and attention of our technical personnel and management; · cause product development delays; · require us to develop non-infringing technology; or · require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Although patent and intellectual property disputes in the biotechnology industry have often been settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and often require the payment of ongoing royalties, which could hurt our gross margins. In addition, we cannot be sure that the necessary licenses would be available to us on satisfactory terms, or that we could redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement, if necessary. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding, or the failure to obtain necessary licenses, could prevent us from developing, manufacturing and selling some of our products, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 8 If any of our products that we license or partner with pharmaceutical and/or biotechnology companies fail to obtain regulatory approval or if approval is delayed or withdrawn, we may be unable to generate revenue from the sale or license of our products. Our products are subject to federal, state, local, or foreign legislation or regulation, including the interpretation of and compliance with existing, proposed, and future regulatory requirements imposed by the FDA in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. In the United States, approval of the FDA has to be obtained for each drug to be commercialized. The FDA approval process is typically lengthy and expensive, and approval is never certain. Products to be commercialized abroad are subject to similar foreign government regulation. Generally, only a very small percentage of newly discovered pharmaceutical products that enter preclinical development are approved for sale. Because of the risks and uncertainties in biopharmaceutical development, our proposed drug products could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than we expect or may never gain approval. If regulatory approval is delayed or never obtained, our management’s credibility, the value of our Company, our operating results and liquidity might be adversely affected. Furthermore, even if a product gains regulatory approval, the product and the manufacturer of the product may be subject to continuing regulatory review. Even after obtaining regulatory approval, such approval may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed. Moreover, a marketed product, its manufacturer, its manufacturing facilities, and its suppliers are subject to continual review and periodic inspections. Discovery of previously unknown problems, or the exacerbation of problems previously deemed acceptable, with the product, manufacturer, or facility may result in restrictions on such product or manufacturer, potentially including withdrawal of the product from the market. Because the healthcare industry is heavily regulated, we face significant costs and uncertainties associated with our efforts to comply with applicable regulations. Should we fail to comply, we could experience material adverse effects on our business, financial position and results of operations, and the market value of our common stock could decline. The biotechnology industry is subject to regulation by various federal and state governmental authorities. For example, we must comply with FDA requirements with respect to the development of our proposed products and our early clinical trials, and if any of our proposed products are approved, the manufacture, labeling, sale, distribution, marketing, advertising and promotion of our products. Failure to comply with FDA and other governmental regulations can result in fines, disgorgement, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, suspension of the FDA’s review of New Drug Applications (“NDA’s”), enforcement actions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. Under certain circumstances, the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals. Despite our efforts at compliance, there is no guarantee that we may not be deemed to be deficient in some manner in the future. If we were deemed to be deficient in any significant way, our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially affected. If our CRO facility that handles a majority of our TOS studies and Tumorgraft Technology Platform development is damaged or destroyed, our business would be negatively affected. We currently utilize a single Contract Research Organizations (“CRO”) to perform a majority of our tumor studies and develop and bank our Tumorgraft Technology Platform. If any of these facilities were to be significantly damaged or destroyed, we could suffer a loss of some of our ongoing and future drug studies as well as our tumor bank. While we believe that our CRO has risk management procedures in place and are insured against damage, such an event would delay timelines and require additional time to restore operations back to the baseline. Additional means are being put into place where our tumor bank will be housed in different locations to avoid a catastrophic event damaging this asset. Investment in our common stock may be diluted if we issue additional shares in the future. We may issue additional shares of common stock, which will reduce shareholders’ percentage ownership and may dilute per share value. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of 125,000,000 shares of common stock. As of July 15, 2011, we had 49,490,000 shares of common stock issued and 46,403,000 shares outstanding. Of the outstanding shares of common stock, 12,333,000 shares are accounted for as mezzanine financing, a classification outside of permanent equity, due to certain contingent “put” features associated with such shares. The future issuance of all or part of the remaining authorized common stock would result in substantial dilution in the percentage of the common stock held by existing shareholders. The issuance of common stock for future services, acquisitions, or other corporate actions may have the effect of diluting the value of the shares held by existing shareholders, and might have an adverse effect on any market for our common stock. 9 There is a limited trading market for our common stock, which may make it difficult for you to sell your shares. Our common stock is quoted on the over-the-counter (“OTC”) Bulletin Board. Like many stocks quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, trading in our common stock is thin and characterized by wide fluctuations in trading prices, due to many factors that may have little to do with our operations or business prospects. This volatility could depress the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to operating performance. Moreover, trading on the OTC Bulletin Board is often more sporadic and volatile than the trading on security exchanges like NASDAQ, American Stock Exchange or New York Stock Exchange. Accordingly, you may have difficulty reselling your shares of our common stock in short time periods. The exercise of outstanding options and warrants may dilute current shareholders. As of July 15, 2011, there were outstanding warrants and options to purchase approximately 16,232,967 shares of our common stock. The exercise of a substantial number of these outstanding warrants and options could adversely affect our share price and dilute current shareholders. Our stock price is volatile. The stock market in general and the market for biotechnology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, investors may not be able to sell their common stock at or above the price they paid for it. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: · results of clinical trials of our drug compounds or those of our competitors; · regulatory development in the United States and foreign countries; · variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; · changes in the healthcare payment system; · announcements by us of significant acquisition, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · sales of significant shares of stock by large investors; · intellectual property, product liability, or other litigation against us; · the loss of a key development partner or CRO; and · the other key facts described in this “Risk Factors” section. Our common stock may be deemed a “penny stock,” which would make it more difficult for you to sell your shares. Our common stock is subject to the “penny stock” rules adopted under Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). These rules require, among other things, that brokers who trade penny stock complete certain documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with certain information concerning trading in the security, including a risk disclosure document and quote information under certain circumstances. Many brokers have decided not to trade penny stocks because of the requirements of the penny stock rules and, as a result, the number of broker-dealers willing to act as market makers in such securities is limited. If we remain subject to the penny stock rules for any significant period, it could have an adverse effect on the market, if any, for our common stock. Because our common stock is subject to the penny stock rules, you may find it more difficult to dispose of the shares of our common stock that you have purchased. Certain provisions of Delaware law and of our charter and bylaws contain provisions that could delay and discourage takeover attempts and any attempts to replace our current management by shareholders. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and applicable provisions of Delaware corporate law, could make it difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us or changing our Board of Directors and management. These provisions include: · the ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences; and · requirements that our stockholders comply with advance notice procedures in order to nominate compounds for election to our Board of Directors or to place stockholders’ proposals on the agenda for consideration at meetings of stockholders. 10 Insiders own a significant amount of the outstanding common stock. Insiders own a significant amount of our outstanding common stock which could discourage takeover attempts. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 