Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Deterioration in general economic conditions and constrained consumer spending has caused, and could cause, additional decreases or delays in advertising spending, could harm our ability to generate advertising revenue and negatively affect our results of operations We derive the majority of our revenue from the sale of local, regional and national advertising. The global economic slowdown that began in 2008 and continued in 2009, resulted in a decline in advertising and marketing services among our customers and a decline in advertising revenue in 2009. Additionally, advertisers and the agencies that represent them, have put increased pressure on advertising rates, in some cases, requesting broad percentage discounts on ad buys, demanding increased levels of inventory and re-negotiating booked orders. The current state of economy could also adversely affect our ability to collect accounts receivable from our advertisers, particularly those entities which have filed for bankruptcy. Reductions in advertising expenditures and declines in ad rates have adversely affected our revenue and if the global economic slowdown continues or a double-dip recession occurs, it would likely continue to adversely impact our revenue, profit margins, cash flow and liquidity in future periods. In addition, once the current economic situation improves, we cannot predict whether or not advertisers’ demands and budgets for advertising will return to previous levels. - 5 - Table of Contents Our operating income has declined since 2005 and may continue to decline. We may not be able to reverse this trend or reduce costs sufficiently to offset declines in revenue if such trends continue Since 2005, our annual operating income has declined from operating income of $143,978 to an operating loss of $97,582, which included impairment charges of approximately $50,501, for the year ended December 31, 2009. Between 2005 and 2009, our operating income declined as a result of increased competition in our local and regional markets and an increase in the amount of 10 second inventory being sold by radio stations. The decline also occurred due to reductions in national audience levels, lower commercial clearance and audience levels of our affiliated stations, and reductions in our local and regional sales force, which began in mid-2006 and continued through 2009. More recently, our operating income has also been affected by the weakness in the United States economy and advertising market. Given the economic climate, it is possible our financial position will not improve. Our present financial condition has caused us to obtain waivers to the agreements governing our indebtedness and to institute certain cost saving measures. If our financial condition does not improve, we may need to take additional actions designed to respond to or improve our financial condition and we cannot assure you that any such actions would be successful in improving our financial position As a result of our current financial position, we have taken certain actions designed to respond to and improve our current financial position. On October 14, 2009 and March 30, 2010, respectively, we entered into separate agreements with the holders of our Senior Notes and Wells Fargo Capital Finance, LLC (formerly Well Fargo Foothill) to amend the terms of our Securities Purchase Agreement (governing the Senior Notes) and Senior Credit Facility, respectively, to waive compliance with our debt leverage covenants which were to be measured on December 31, 2009 on a trailing four-quarter basis (October amendment) and to amend our future debt leverage covenant levels (March amendment). In addition, we have implemented and continue to implement cost saving measures which included compensation reduction and furlough actions (aggregating 10 days of pay per each participating full-time employee) that we announced on September 29, 2009. Certain of the cost saving initiatives were designed to improve our financial condition. If our financial condition does not improve as a result of these and other actions, we may need to take additional actions in the future in an attempt to improve our financial position. We can make no assurance that the actions we have taken and plan to take in the future will improve our financial position. CBS Radio provides us with a significant portion of our commercial inventory and audience that we sell to advertisers. A material reduction in the audience delivered by CBS Radio stations or a material loss of commercial inventory from CBS Radio would have an adverse effect on our advertising sales and financial results While we provide programming to all major radio station groups, we have affiliation agreements with most of CBS Radio’s owned and operated radio stations which, in the aggregate, provide us with a significant portion of the audience and commercial inventory that we sell to advertisers, much of which is in the more desirable top 10 radio markets. Although the compensation we pay to CBS Radio under our new 2008 arrangement is adjustable for audience levels and commercial clearance (i.e., the percentage of commercial inventory broadcast by CBS Radio stations), any significant loss of audience or inventory delivered by CBS Radio stations, including, by way of example only, as a result of a decline in station audience, commercial clearance levels or station sales that resulted in lower audience levels, would have a material adverse impact on our advertising sales and revenue. Since implementing the new arrangement in early 2008 and continuing through the end of 2009, CBS Radio has delivered improved audience levels and broadcast more advertising inventory than it had under our previous arrangement. However, there can be no assurance that CBS Radio will be able to maintain these higher levels in particular, with the introduction of The Portable People Meter™, or PPM™, which to date has reported substantially lower audience ratings for certain of our radio station affiliates, including our CBS Radio station affiliates, in those markets in which PPM™ has been implemented as described below. As part of our recent cost reduction actions to eliminate less profitable programming, we and CBS Radio mutually agreed to enter into an arrangement, which became effective on February 25, 2010, to give back approximately 15% of the audience delivered by CBS Radio which resulted in a commensurate reduction in cash compensation payable to them. Since the time of our agreement, we have added incremental (more cost effective), non-CBS inventory to largely offset the impact of such give back on our audience. We have also approximately 23% of additional Metro Traffic inventory from CBS Radio through various stand-alone agreements. While our arrangement with CBS Radio is scheduled to terminate in 2017, there can be no assurance that such arrangement will not be breached by either party. If our agreement with CBS Radio were terminated as a result of such breach, our results of operations could be materially impacted. - 6 - Table of Contents We may not realize expected benefits from our cost cutting initiatives In order to improve the efficiency of our operations, we have implemented and continue to implement certain cost cutting initiatives, including headcount and salary reductions and more recently a furlough of participating full-time employees. We cannot assure you that we will realize the full benefit expected from these cost savings or improve our operating performance as a result of our past, current and future cost cutting activities. We also cannot assure you that our cost cutting activities will not adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, the significant loss of whom could adversely affect our operating results. Further, as a result of our cost cutting activities, we may not have an adequate level of resources and personnel to appropriately react to significant changes or fluctuations in the market and in the level of demand for our programming and services. If our operating losses continues to increase, our ability to further decrease costs may be more limited as a result of our previously enacted cost cutting initiatives. Our ability to grow our Metro Traffic business revenue may be adversely affected by the increased proliferation of free of charge traffic content to consumers Our Metro Traffic business produces and distributes traffic and other local information reports to approximately 2,200 radio and 170 television affiliates and we derive the substantial majority of the revenue attributed to this business from the sale of commercial advertising inventory embedded within these reports. Recently, the US Department of Transportation and other regional and local departments of transportation have significantly increased their direct provision of real-time traffic and traveler information to the public free of charge. The ability to obtain this information free of charge may result in our radio and television affiliates electing not to utilize the traffic and local information reports produced by our Metro Traffic business, which in turn could adversely affect our revenue from the sale of advertising inventory embedded in such reports. If we are unable to achieve our financial forecast, we may require an amendment or additional waiver of our debt leverage covenant, which amendment or waiver, if not obtained, could have a material and adverse effect on our business continuity and financial condition Management believes that after giving effect to certain cost containment measures including furloughs and salary reductions for employees, and the most recent amendments to our covenant levels, we will generate sufficient Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in our Senior Credit Facility) to meet our debt leverage covenants over the next twelve months (namely, on March 31, 2010, June 30, 2010, September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2010, when the covenants are measured on a trailing four-quarter basis). However, as described elsewhere in this report, we are still operating in an uncertain economic environment, where the pace of an advertising recovery is unclear. As described above, we agreed to pay down (x) $3,500 of our Senior Notes on or prior to March 31, 2010 as part of our agreement with our lenders to waive our debt covenant for December 31, 2009 and (y) a minimum of $10,000 of our Senior Notes in the agreement with our lenders to amend our debt covenant levels for March 31, 2010 and beyond. Gores has agreed to guarantee up to a $10,000 pay down of the Senior Notes if such refund is not received on or prior to August 16, 2010. If we are unable to achieve our forecasted results, or sufficiently offset those results with certain cost reduction measures, and were to require a further waiver or amendment of our debt covenant requirements which could not then be obtained, it could have a material and adverse effect on our business continuity, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. - 7 - Table of Contents We may require additional financing to fund our working capital, debt service, capital expenditures or other capital requirements and the ongoing global credit market disruptions have reduced access to credit and created higher costs of obtaining financing Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from operations, which has been adversely impacted by the decline in our advertising revenue. Based on our current and anticipated levels of operations, we believe that cash flow from operations as well as cash on hand (including amounts drawn or available under our Senior Credit Facility) will enable us to meet our working capital, capital expenditure, debt service and other capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, our ability to fund our working capital needs, debt service and other obligations, and to comply with the financial covenants under our financing agreements depends on our future operating performance and cash flow, which are subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. As described above, we recently negotiated agreements with the holders of our Senior Notes and Wells Fargo Capital Finance, LLC in October 2009 and March 2010 regarding our debt leverage covenants under our Senior Notes and Senior Credit Facility, respectively (which level was to be measured on December 31, 2009) and in March 2010 to amend such debt leverage covenants, as a result of lower than anticipated revenue and the uncertain economic and advertising environments. Pursuant to the terms of the October amendment, we agreed to pay down $3,500 of our outstanding Senior Notes on or before March 31, 2010 and under the terms of the March amendment, we agreed to pay down a minimum of $10,000 of our outstanding Senior Notes, which amount could increase depending on the size of our anticipated tax refund. Gores has agreed to guarantee up to a $10,000 pay down of the Senior Notes if such refund is not received on or prior to August 16, 2010. On December 31, 2009, we also acquired the business assets of Jaytu Technologies LLC (d/b/a SigAlert) (“Jaytu”), which included a cash payment of $1,250, common stock with a fair value of $1,045 and up to $1,500 in potential cash earnouts based on future deliverables. The cash portion of these items will not be available to us to fund the ongoing operating needs of our business. If our future operating performance does not meet our expectations or our plans materially change in an adverse manner or prove to be materially inaccurate, we may need additional financing. There can be no assurance that such financing, if consented to by our lenders under the terms of our financing agreements, will be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Additionally, disruptions in the credit markets make it harder and more expensive to obtain financing. If available financing is limited or we are forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us to curtail our business activities and increase our cost of financing, both of which could reduce our profitability or increase our losses. The inability to obtain additional financing in such circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and on our ability to meet our obligations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect our liquidity and future business operations if our operating income declines more than we currently anticipate As of December 31, 2009, we had $121,927 in aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes outstanding (of which approximately $4,400 is paid in kind interest), which bear interest at a rate of 15.0%, and a Senior Credit Facility consisting of: a $20,000 term loan and a $15,000 revolving credit facility (of which $5,000 was drawn down at December 31, 2009 and $1,219 is used under a letter of credit), which we will continue to borrow against in the future. Loans under our Senior Credit Facility bear interest at LIBOR plus 4.5% (with a LIBOR floor of 2.5%) or a base rate plus 4.5% (with a base rate floor equal to the greater of 3.75% or the one-month LIBOR rate). As described above, we recently obtained waivers of compliance with our debt leverage covenants for the fourth quarter of 2009 measurement period and amendments to our debt leverage covenants to be measured on March 31, 2010 and beyond. Our ability to service our debt in 2010 and beyond will depend on our financial performance in an uncertain and unpredictable economic environment as well as competitive pressures. Further, our Senior Notes and Senior Credit Facility restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness. If our operating income declines more than we currently anticipate, resulting in limits to our ability to incur additional indebtedness under the terms of our outstanding indebtedness, and we are unable to obtain a waiver to increase our indebtedness or successfully raise funds through an issuance of equity, we could have insufficient liquidity which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to meet our debt service and repayment obligations under the Senior Notes or the Senior Credit Facility, we would be in default under the terms of the agreements governing our debt, which if uncured, would allow our creditors at that time to declare all outstanding indebtedness to be due and payable and materially impair our financial condition and liquidity. - 8 - Table of Contents Our Senior Credit Facility and Senior Notes contain various covenants which, if not complied with, could accelerate repayment under such indebtedness, thereby materially and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations Our Senior Credit Facility and Senior Notes require us to comply with certain financial and operational covenants. These covenants (as amended on March 30, 2010) include, without limitation: • a maximum senior leverage ratio (expressed as the principal amount of Senior Notes over our Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in our Senior Credit Facility) measured on a trailing, four-quarter basis) which is 8.0 to 1.0 on March 31, 2010 but begins to decline on a quarterly basis thereafter, including to a 6.5 to 1.0 ratio on December 31, 2010, a 4.50 to 1.0 ratio on December 31, 2011 and a 3.5 to 1.0 ratio on March 31, 2012; and • restrictions on our ability to incur debt, incur liens, make investments, make capital expenditures, consummate acquisitions, pay dividends, sell assets and enter into mergers and similar transactions. While our 2010 projections indicate we would attain sufficient Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in our Senior Credit Facility) to comply with our debt leverage covenant levels in 2010, we cannot be certain there will be sufficient Adjusted EBITDA to comply with our debt covenants, particularly if the advertising environment remains weak or our operating income continues to decline. As described above, in October 2009 we obtained waivers of compliance with our debt leverage covenants for December 31, 2009 and in March 2010, eased our debt leverage covenants for 2010 and 2011. Our debt leverage covenant will first be measured on March 31, 2010 and thereafter quarterly on a trailing four-quarter basis. Failure to comply with any of our covenants would result in a default under our Senior Credit Facility and Senior Notes that, if we were unable to obtain a waiver from the lenders or holders thereof, could accelerate repayment under the Senior Credit Facility and Senior Notes and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business. Our ability to increase our revenue is significantly dependent on audience, which could be negatively impacted by The Portable People Meter In late 2007, Arbitron Inc., the supplier of ratings data for United States radio markets, rolled out new electronic audience measurement technology to collect data for its ratings service known as The Portable People MeterTM, or PPM™. The PPM™ measures the audience of radio stations remotely without requiring listeners to keep a manual diary of the stations they listen to. In 2007, 2008, 2009, two, nine and 19 markets converted to PPM™, respectively, and in 2010, 15 markets will convert to PPM™. As of the date of this report, the PPM™ has been implemented in 30 markets (including all top 10 markets and three markets whose MSAs overlap). Unlike our Metro Traffic inventory, which is fully reflected in ratings books that are released semi-annually, our Network inventory is reflected in ratings books on an incremental basis over time (i.e., over a rolling four-quarter period), which means we and our advertisers cannot view audience levels that give full weight to PPM™ for our Radio’s All Dimension Audience Research (“RADAR”) inventory (which comprises half of our Network inventory) for over a year after a market converts to PPM™. In the RADAR ratings book released in March 2010, approximately half (measured by the revenue generated by such inventory) of the inventory published in such ratings books shows the effect of PPM™ in those markets which have converted to PPM™. In the two most recent periods published by RADAR, July 2009 to September 2009 and October 2009 to December 2009, the audience (measured by Persons 12+) for our 12 RADAR networks declined by 0.8% and 5.8%, respectively, which also reflects our decision to reduce the number of our RADAR networks from 14 to 12 in the fourth quarter of 2009. Because audience levels can decline for several reasons, including changes in the radio stations included in a RADAR network, clearance levels by those stations and general radio listening trends, it is difficult to isolate the effects PPM™ is having on our audience with a high level of certainty. While ad revenue in our Network and Metro Traffic businesses has declined, we are unable to determine how much of the decline is a result of the general economic environment as opposed to our decline in audience. While most major markets have converted to PPM™ (only 15 markets have yet to convert), it is unclear whether our audience levels will continue to decline in future ratings books. In 2009, we were able to offset the impact of audience declines by using excess inventory; however, in 2010 we anticipate that this option will be limited and that to offset declines in audience will generally require that we purchase additional inventory which must be obtained well in advance of our having definitive data on future audience levels. If we do not accurately predict how much additional inventory will be required to offset any declines in audience, or cannot purchase comparable inventory to our current inventory at efficient prices, our revenue or margins in 2010 could be materially and adversely affected. - 9 - Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to continue to accurately report our financial results. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reporting. During the current year, we identified a material weakness related to accounting for income taxes which resulted in adjustments to the 2009 annual consolidated financial statements, as described in Item 9A — Controls and Procedures. We also identified certain immaterial errors in our financial statements, which we have corrected in subsequent interim periods. Such items have been reported and disclosed in the financial statements for the period ended December 31, 2009. We do not believe these adjustments are material to our current period consolidated financial statements or to any prior period’s consolidated financial statements and no prior periods have been restated. We intend to further enhance our internal control environment and we may be required to enhance our personnel or their level of experience, among other things, in order to continue to maintain effective internal controls. No assurances can be provided that we will be able to continue to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, enhance our personnel or their level of experience or prevent a material weakness from occurring. Our failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on us, could cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations or could result in material adjustments in our financial statements. Our failure to obtain or retain the rights in popular programming could adversely affect our revenue Our revenue from our radio programming and television business is dependent on our continued ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and behavior on a timely basis. We obtain a significant portion of our popular programming from third parties. For example, some of our most widely heard broadcasts, including certain NFL games, are made available based upon programming rights of varying duration that we have negotiated with third parties. Competition for popular programming that is licensed from third parties is intense, and due to increased costs of such programming or potential capital constraints, we may be outbid by our competitors for the rights to new, popular programming or in connection with the renewal of popular programming currently licensed by us. Our failure to obtain or retain rights to popular content could adversely affect our revenue. Our business is subject to increased competition resulting from new entrants into our business, consolidated companies and new technology/platforms, each of which has the potential to adversely affect our business Our business segments operate in a highly competitive environment. Our radio and television programming competes for audiences and advertising revenue directly with radio and television stations and other syndicated programming, as well as with other media such as satellite radio, newspapers, magazines, cable television, outdoor advertising, direct mail and, more increasingly, digital media. We may experience increased audience fragmentation caused by the proliferation of new media platforms, including the Internet and video-on-demand and the deployment of portable digital devices and new technologies which allow consumers to time shift programming, make and store digital copies and skip or fast-forward through advertisements. New or existing competitors may have resources significantly greater than our own and, in particular, the consolidation of the radio industry has created opportunities for large radio groups, such as Clear Channel Communications, CBS Radio and Citadel Broadcasting Corporation to gather information and produce radio and television programming on their own. Increased competition, in part, has resulted in reduced market share, and could result in lower audience levels, advertising revenue and cash flow. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively, be successful in our efforts to regain market share and increase or maintain our current audience ratings and advertising revenue. To the extent we experience a further decline in audience for our programs, advertisers’ willingness to purchase our advertising could be further reduced. Additionally, audience ratings and performance-based revenue arrangements are subject to change based on the competitive environment and any adverse change in a particular geographic area could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to attract not only advertisers in that region, but national advertisers as well. In recent years, digital media platforms and the offerings thereon have increased significantly and consumers are playing an increasingly large role in dictating the content received through such mediums. We face increasing pressure to adapt our existing programming as well as to expand the programming and services we offer to address these new and evolving digital distribution channels. Advertising buyers have the option to filter their messages through various digital platforms and as a result, many are adjusting their advertising budgets downward with respect to traditional advertising mediums such as radio and television or utilizing providers who offer “one-stop shopping” access to both traditional and alternative distribution channels. If we are unable to offer our broadcasters and advertisers an attractive full suite of traditional and new media platforms and address the industry shift to new digital mediums, our operating results may be negatively impacted. - 10 - Table of Contents The cost of our indebtedness has increased substantially, which, when combined with our recent declining revenue, further affects our liquidity and could limit our ability to implement our business plan and respond competitively As a result of our Refinancing, the interest payments on our debt (on an annualized basis — i.e., from April 23, 2009 to April 23, 2010 and subsequent annual periods thereafter) have increased from approximately $12,000 to $19,000, $6,000 of which will be paid in kind (“PIK”). If the economy does not continue to improve and advertisers continue to maintain reduced budgets which do not significantly recover in 2010, we may be required to delay the implementation or reduce the scope of our business plan and our ability to develop or enhance our services or programs could be curtailed. Without additional revenue and capital, we may be unable to take advantage of business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities or securing rights to name-brand or popular programming, or respond to competitive pressures. If any of the foregoing should occur, this could have a material and adverse effect on our business. If we are not able to integrate future acquisitions successfully, our operating results could be harmed We evaluate acquisitions on an ongoing basis and intend to pursue acquisitions of businesses in our industry and related industries that can assist us in achieving our growth strategy. The success of our future acquisition strategy will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate acquisitions and, if necessary, to obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing to fund those acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky, and any mergers and acquisitions we do complete may not be successful. Any mergers and acquisitions we do may involve certain risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • difficulties in integrating and managing the operations, technologies and products of the companies we acquire; • diversion of our management’s attention from normal daily operations of our business; • our inability to maintain the key business relationships and reputations of the businesses we acquire; • uncertainty of entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience or in which competitors have stronger market positions; • our dependence on unfamiliar affiliates and partners of the companies we acquire; • insufficient revenue to offset our increased expenses associated with the acquisitions; • our responsibility for the liabilities of the businesses we acquire; and • potential loss of key employees of the companies we acquire. Our success is dependent upon audience acceptance of our content, particularly our radio programs, which is difficult to predict Revenue derived from the production and distribution of radio programs depend primarily upon their acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a radio program also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which are difficult to predict. Rating points are also factors that are weighed when determining the advertising rates that we receive. Poor ratings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising revenue. Consequently, low public acceptance of our content, particularly our radio programs, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. - 11 - Table of Contents Continued consolidation in the radio broadcast industry could adversely affect our operating results The radio broadcasting industry has continued to experience significant change, including a significant amount of consolidation in recent years and increased business transactions by key players in the radio industry (e.g., Clear Channel, Citadel and CBS Radio). Certain major station groups have: (1) modified overall amounts of commercial inventory broadcast on their radio stations; (2) experienced significant declines in audience; and (3) increased their supply of shorter duration advertisements, in particular the amount of 10 second inventory, which is directly competitive to us. To the extent similar initiatives are adopted by other major station groups, this could adversely impact the amount of commercial inventory made available to us or increase the cost of such commercial inventory at the time of renewal of existing affiliate agreements. Additionally, if the size and financial resources of certain station groups continue to increase, the station groups may be able to develop their own programming as a substitute to that offered by us or, alternatively, they could seek to obtain programming from our competitors. Any such occurrences, or merely the threat of such occurrences, could adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms with our station affiliates, attract audiences and attract advertisers. If we do not succeed in these efforts, our operating results could be adversely affected. We may be required to recognize further impairment charges On an annual basis and upon the occurrence of certain events, we are required to perform impairment tests on our identified intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, which testing could impact the value of our business. We have a history of recognizing impairment charges related to our goodwill. In September 2009, we believe a triggering event occurred as a result of forecasted results for 2009 and 2010 and therefore we conducted a goodwill impairment analysis. Metro Traffic results indicated impairment in our Metro Traffic segment. As a result of our Metro Traffic analysis, we recorded an impairment charge of $50,501. At December 31, 2008, we determined that our goodwill was impaired and recorded an impairment charge of $224,073, which is in addition to the impairment charge of $206,053 taken on June 30, 2008. In connection with our Refinancing and our requisite adoption of the acquisition method of accounting, we recorded new values of certain assets such that as of April 24, 2009 our revalued goodwill was $86,414 (an increase of $52,426) and intangible assets were $116,910 (an increase of $114,481). The majority of the impairment charges related to our goodwill have not been deductible for income tax purposes. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock may not maintain an active trading market which could affect the liquidity and market price of our common stock. On November 20, 2009, we listed our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market. However, there can be no assurance that an active trading market on the NASDAQ Global Market will be maintained, that our common stock price will increase or that our common stock will continue to trade on the exchange for any specific period of time. If we are unable to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Global Market, we may be subject to a loss of confidence by customers and investors and the market price of our shares may be affected. Sales of additional shares of common stock by Gores or our other lenders could adversely affect the stock price. Gores beneficially owns, in the aggregate, 15,258 shares of our common stock, or approximately 74.3% of our outstanding common stock. There can be no assurance that at some future time Gores, or our other lenders, will not, subject to the applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and limitations of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, sell additional shares of our common stock, which could adversely affect our share price. The perception that these sales might occur could also cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Such sales could also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. - 12 - Table of Contents Gores will be able to exert significant influence over us and our significant corporate decisions and may act in a manner that advances its best interest and not necessarily those of other stockholders. As a result of its beneficial ownership of 15,258 shares of our common stock, or approximately 74.3% of our voting power, Gores has voting control over our corporate actions. For so long as Gores continues to beneficially own shares of common stock representing more than 50% of the voting power of our common stock, it will be able to elect all of the members of our Board of Directors (our “Board”) and determine the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including matters involving mergers or other business combinations, the acquisition or disposition of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness, the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or other equity securities and the payment of dividends on common stock. Gores may act in a manner that advances its best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders by, among other things: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination; • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting obtain control; or • causing us to enter into transactions or agreements that are not in the best interests of all stockholders. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. This provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law could delay or prevent a change of control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently anticipate that we will retain all of our available cash, if any, for use as working capital and for other general corporate purposes. Any payment of future cash dividends will be at the discretion of our Board and will depend upon, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that our Board deems relevant. In addition, our Senior Credit Facility and the New Senior Notes restrict the payment of dividends. Any issuance of shares of preferred stock by us could delay or prevent a change of control of our company, dilute the voting power of the common stockholders and adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our Board has the authority to cause us to issue, without any further vote or action by the stockholders, up to 10,000 shares of preferred stock, in one or more series, to designate the number of shares constituting any series, and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof, including dividend rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption, redemption price or prices and liquidation preferences of such series. To the extent we choose to issue preferred stock, any such issuance may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company without further action by the stockholders, even where stockholders are offered a premium for their shares. The issuance of shares of preferred stock with voting rights may adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our other classes of voting stock either by diluting the voting power of our other classes of voting stock if they vote together as a single class, or by giving the holders of any such preferred stock the right to block an action on which they have a separate class vote even if the action were approved by the holders of our other classes of voting stock. - 13 - Table of Contents The issuance of shares of preferred stock with dividend or conversion rights, liquidation preferences or other economic terms favorable to the holders of preferred stock could adversely affect the market price for our common stock by making an investment in the common stock less attractive. For example, investors in the common stock may not wish to purchase common stock at a price above the conversion price of a series of convertible preferred stock because the holders of the preferred stock would effectively be entitled to purchase common stock at the lower conversion price causing economic dilution to the holders of common stock. The foregoing list of factors that may affect future performance and the accuracy of forward-looking statements included in the factors above are illustrative, but by no means all-inclusive or exhaustive. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 