Item 1A. Risk Factors A wide range of factors could materially affect future developments and performance including the following: • Westwood One is managed by CBS Radio under a Management Agreement, which expires on March 31, 2009. While Westwood One provides programming to all major radio station groups, the Company has affiliation agreements with most of CBS Radio’s owned and operated radio stations, which in the aggregate, provide the Company with a significant portion of the audience that it sells to advertisers. Accordingly, the Company’s operating performance could be materially adversely impacted by its inability to continue to renew its affiliate agreements with CBS Radio stations. • The Company competes in a highly competitive business. Its radio programming competes for audiences and advertising revenues directly with radio and television stations and other syndicated programming, as well as with such other media as newspapers, magazines, cable television, outdoor advertising and direct mail. Audience ratings and performance based revenue arrangements are subject to change and any adverse change in a particular geographic area could have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s ability to attract not only advertisers in that region, but national advertisers as well. Future operations are further subject to many factors which could have an adverse effect upon the Company’s financial performance. These factors include: – economic conditions, both generally and relative to the broadcasting industry; – advertiser spending patterns, including the notion that orders are being placed in close proximity to air, limiting visibility of demand; – the level of competition for advertising dollars; – technological changes and innovations; – fluctuations in programming costs; – shifts in population and other demographics; – changes in labor conditions; and – changes in governmental regulations and policies and actions of federal and state regulatory bodies. -8- Table of Contents Although the Company believes that its radio programming will be able to compete effectively and will continue to attract audiences and advertisers, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain or increase the current audience ratings and advertising revenues. • The radio broadcasting industry has experienced a significant amount of consolidation in recent years. As a result, certain major station groups, including CBS Radio and Clear Channel Communications, have emerged as powerful forces in the industry. Given the size and financial resources of these station groups, they may be able to develop their own programming as a substitute to that offered by the Company or, alternatively, they could seek to obtain programming from the Company’s competitors. Any such occurrences, or merely the threat of such occurrences, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to negotiate favorable terms with its station affiliates, to attract audiences and to attract advertisers. In addition, a major station group has recently announced plans to reduce overall amounts of commercial inventory broadcast on their radio stations. To the extent similar initiatives are adopted by other major station groups, this could adversely impact the amount of commercial inventory made available to the Company or increase the cost of such commercial inventory at the time of renewal of existing affiliate agreements. • Changes in U.S. financial and equity markets, including market disruptions and significant interest rate fluctuations, could impede the Company’s access to, or increase the cost of, external financing for its operations and investments. • The Company believes relations with its employees and independent contractors are satisfactory. However, the Company may be adversely affected by future labor disputes, which may lead to increased costs or disruption of operations in any of the Company s business units. This list of factors that may affect future performance and the accuracy of forward-looking statements are illustrative, but by no means all-inclusive or exhaustive. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments This item is not applicable. 