Item 1A. Risk Factors A wide range of factors could materially affect future developments and performance including the following: • The Company is party to a Management Agreement, a Representation Agreement and other related programming agreements and arrangements with CBS Radio, which expire on March 31, 2009. While the Company provides programming to all major radio station groups, the Company has affiliation agreements with most of the radio stations owned and operated by CBS Radio which, in the aggregate, provide the Company with a significant portion of the audience and/or commercial inventory that it sells to advertisers. While the Company is currently involved in discussions with CBS Radio regarding the modification and/or extension of such agreements and arrangements, there can be no assurance the Company and CBS Radio will be able to agree on extensions or modifications to such agreements on similar economic terms. If the Company is unable to secure agreements with CBS Radio beyond March 31, 2009, the Company’s operations and financial condition could be materially affected. • Under the terms of the Management Agreement, CBS Radio manages the business and operations of the Company, including by providing individuals to serve as the CEO and CFO of the Company (CBS Radio employs the CEO and reimburses to the Company the cash compensation of the CFO, who is employed directly by the Company). CBS Radio receives a management fee for its management services. The Management Agreement also includes certain non-competition provisions in favor of the Company and a right of first refusal on syndication opportunities to the Company where CBS Radio determines, in its sole discretion, to syndicate programming. Two executives of CBS Radio serve on the Company’s Board of Directors, and CBS Radio owns approximately 18.6% of the Company’s common stock. In addition, CBS Radio competes with the Company in advertising sales and most of the radio stations owned and operated by CBS Radio have affiliation agreements with the Company. The foregoing could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest for CBS Radio in its decisions regarding the day-to-day operation of its business and in providing its management services to the Company under the Management Agreement. The -8- Table of Contents foregoing could materially adversely impact the Company’s future business, financial condition and operating performance. • While the Company provides programming to all major radio station groups, the Company has affiliation agreements with most of CBS Radio’s owned and operated radio stations which, in the aggregate, provide the Company with a significant portion of the audience and/or commercial inventory that it sells to advertisers. In addition, the Company operates the CBS Radio Network and syndicates and/or distributes several other programs from CBS and its affiliates. In 2006, the Company experienced a material decline in the amount of audience and quantity and quality of commercial inventory delivered by the CBS Radio owned and operated radio stations. Reasons for the decline include: (1) the cancellation of, and loss of syndication opportunities associated with, key national programming; (2) the sale of CBS radio stations as described in more detail below and (3) the reduction of commercial inventory levels, including certain RADAR inventory, provided to the Company under affiliation agreements. At the same time, other than for reductions in compensation paid to CBS Radio to reflect reduced commercial inventory levels, the economic arrangement between the Company and CBS Radio has remained substantially fixed pursuant to the terms of many of the existing agreements between the Company and CBS Radio. At this time, it is unclear whether such decline is permanent. To the extent the decline is permanent or new economic terms to its agreements with CBS Radio and its affiliates cannot be negotiated, the Company’s operating performance could be materially adversely impacted by this decline in audience and commercial inventory. • As a result of deterioration in the Company’s operating performance, the Company amended its senior loan agreement in October 2006 with a syndicate of banks in order to remain in compliance with the covenants under such agreement, including the total debt ratio covenant which was amended to 4.00 to 1 through March 31, 2008. Further changes in the Company’s operating performance may cause the Company to seek further amendments to the covenants under the senior loan agreement or to seek to replace the senior loan agreement, which matures on February 28, 2009. The Company’s ability and timing to obtain, if needed, additional amendments or additional financing, or to refinance the existing senior loan agreement, may be adversely impacted by the timing of the Company’s ability, if at all, to extend its relationship with CBS Radio beyond the March 31, 2009 expiration of the Management Agreement and related agreements. • In connection with its agreements with CBS Radio dating back to 1994, the Company has benefited from the historical practice of long-term distribution relationships for its programming, including pursuant to affiliation agreements with most of CBS’s owned and operated radio stations, many of which operate on a month-to-month basis or contain 90-day termination provisions which historically have not been exercised by the CBS radio stations. During 2006, CBS Radio reached agreements to sell 39 radio stations in ten of its smaller markets; to date, the sale of 15 of those stations have been completed. To the extent CBS Radio continues to sell and/or restructure its portfolio of radio assets and these existing distribution arrangements are terminated and/or not continued on a long-term basis by the new owners of the former CBS radio stations, as was the case with certain of the radio stations sold by CBS in 2006, there is a greater likelihood that the Company will not be able to continue to benefit from the long-term distribution relationship it has with CBS Radio on substantially similar economic terms and conditions or at all. If a significant number of additional radio stations or radio stations in key markets affiliated with the Company are sold by CBS Radio, and the new owners of such stations terminate and/or do not continue the affiliation agreements with the Company on a long-term basis, or if the Company cannot enter into new affiliation agreements with other radio stations in such markets on similar terms and conditions, the Company’s operating performance would be materially adversely impacted. • The Company and CBS Radio are presently seeking to resolve a dispute as to whether the manner of sale of certain short duration commercial inventory conducted by or on behalf of radio stations owned by CBS Radio is permitted under the terms of existing agreements between the parties, including the non- competition provisions of the Management Agreement. If this dispute cannot be resolved, the Company’s relationship with CBS Radio could be adversely affected, which could, in turn, have a material adverse impact on the Company. -9- Table of Contents • The Company competes in a highly competitive business. Its radio programming competes for audiences and advertising revenues directly with radio and television stations and other syndicated programming, as well as with such other media as newspapers, magazines, cable television, outdoor advertising and direct mail. Audience ratings and performance-based revenue arrangements are subject to change and any adverse change in a particular geographic area could have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s ability to attract not only advertisers in that region, but national advertisers as well. Future operations are further subject to many factors, which could have an adverse effect upon the Company’s financial performance. These factors include: - economic conditions, both generally and relative to the broadcasting industry; - advertiser spending patterns, including the notion that orders are being placed in close proximity to air, limiting visibility of demand; - the level of competition for advertising dollars, including by new entrants into the radio advertising sales market, including Google; - new competitors or existing competitors with expanded resources, including as a result of consolidation (as described below), NAVTEQ’s purchase of Traffic.com or the recently announced proposed merger between XM Satellite Radio and Sirius Satellite Radio; - lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; - technological changes and innovations; - fluctuations in programming costs; - shifts in population and other demographics; - changes in labor conditions; and - changes in governmental regulations and policies and actions of federal and state regulatory bodies. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain or increase the current audience ratings and advertising revenues. • The radio broadcasting industry has continued to experience significant change, including as a result of a significant amount of consolidation in recent years, and increased business transactions in 2006 by key players in the radio industry (e.g., Clear Channel, Citadel, ABC, CBS Radio). In connection therewith, certain major station groups have: (1) recently modified overall amounts of commercial inventory broadcast on their radio stations, (2) experienced significant declines in audience and (3) increased their supply of shorter duration advertisements which is directly competitive to the Company. To the extent similar initiatives are adopted by other major station groups, this could adversely impact the amount of commercial inventory made available to the Company or increase the cost of such commercial inventory at the time of renewal of existing affiliate agreements. Additionally, if the size and financial resources of certain station groups continue to increase, the station groups may be able to develop their own programming as a substitute to that offered by the Company or, alternatively, they could seek to obtain programming from the Company’s competitors. Any such occurrences, or merely the threat of such occurrences, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to negotiate favorable terms with its station affiliates, to attract audiences and to attract advertisers. • Changes in U.S. financial and equity markets, including market disruptions and significant interest rate fluctuations, could impede the Company’s access to, or increase the cost of, external financing for its operations and investments As otherwise discussed in this report, including Item 7 (Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), the Company, in connection with its annual impairment test, recorded an impairment of goodwill of $515,916 in the fourth quarter of 2006. Goodwill represents the residual value remaining after ascribing estimated fair values to a reporting unit’s tangible and intangible assets and liabilities. In order to -10- Table of Contents estimate the fair values of assets and liabilities the Company is required to make important assumptions and judgments about future operating results, cash flows, discount rates, and the probability of various event scenarios, as well as the proportional contribution of various assets to results and other judgmental allocations. If actual future conditions or events differ from the Company’s estimates, an additional impairment charge may be necessary to reduce the carrying value of goodwill, which charge could be material to the Company’s operations. The Company believes it is possible it may have a further impairment of goodwill in the future as further discussed in “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Valuation of Goodwill”. This list of factors that may affect future performance and the accuracy of forward-looking statements are illustrative, but by no means all-inclusive or exhaustive. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments This item is not applicable. 