Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. - 8 - Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we failed to pay our most recent semi-annual interest payment due in respect of the existing $150,000 of ten-year Senior Notes due November 30, 2012 and $50,000 of seven-year Senior Notes due November 30, 2009 (the foregoing, the “Senior Notes”) and were not in compliance with our maximum leverage ratio covenant at December 31, 2008. Both of these events constitute a separate default under the existing Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility (collectively the “Facility”) and the Senior Notes. In addition, on February 27, 2009, our outstanding Facility matured and became due and payable in its entirety. We did not pay such amount, which also constitutes an event of default under the Facility and the Senior Notes. As a result management has concluded that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. While we have agreed in principle on terms to refinance our outstanding debt with our lenders, there can be no assurance that we will consummate the refinancing transaction. While the parties are working towards execution of definitive documentation, if we are unable to reach a definitive agreement, we would not be able to continue as a going concern and could potentially be forced to seek relief through a filing under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. An Event of Default has occurred under the terms of our Facility and our Senior Notes. While we have an agreement in principle on terms to refinance all of our debt, there can be no assurance that we will close the refinancing or that the lenders under the Facility and our Senior Notes will not seek to exercise remedies that may be available to them prior to such closing, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we failed to pay our most recent semi-annual interest payment due in respect of the existing Senior Notes and were not in compliance with our maximum leverage ratio covenant at December 31, 2008. Both of these events constitute a separate default under the Facility and the Senior Notes. In addition, on February 27, 2009, our outstanding Facility matured and became due and payable in its entirety. We did not pay such amount, which also constitutes an event of default under the Facility and the Senior Notes. If we are unable to negotiate definitive documentation with our lenders, entities managed by The Gores Group, LLC, (together with its affiliates, “Gores”) and a new third party lender, or if our lenders decide for any reason to exercise available remedies under the Facility and the Senior Notes, in the absence of obtaining approximately $47,000 in additional capital to satisfy such payments and our obtaining a waiver of our 4.0 to 1.0 debt leverage covenant (which we anticipate violating upon delivery of our audited financial statements as described elsewhere in this report), we will not be able to make such payments and could be forced to seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws. Our operating income has declined since 2002. We may not be able to reverse this trend particularly in the current economic environment or reduce costs sufficiently to offset anticipated declines in revenue. Since 2002, our operating income has declined from approximately $180,000 to an operating loss of $(438,041) ($19,430 exclusive of goodwill impairment charges of $430,126, restructuring charges of $14,100 and special charges of $13,245), with the most significant decline occurring in the past three years. In addition, our 2006 and 2008 results were adversely affected by goodwill impairment charges of approximately $516,000 and $430,000, respectively. Given the current economic climate, it is possible our operating income will continue to decline. Historically, we have been able to reduce expenses to partially mitigate the impact of the decline in our revenue and its effect on operating income. However, given the extensive restructuring of the Metro/Traffic division from 61 offices into 13 hubs (announced in Q3 of 2008 and anticipated to be completed by the end of Q2 of 2009), our ability to implement further significant cost reductions without negatively affecting our revenue is somewhat limited, and may make it difficult for us to mitigate the impact of further declines in revenue. The global credit market disruptions and economic slowdown which significantly worsened in the third quarter of 2008 have created a difficult and uncertain environment across all industries and there is no immediate sign of a recovery. The recent credit market disruptions and economic contraction in the United States and globally have been severe, creating an economic environment unseen in recent history. Aside from the decline in consumer spending as described below, many of our clients could face their own difficulties in obtaining necessary financing to fund their ordinary course business operations. Given the economic downturn and the tight credit markets, many advertisers are reducing their ad budgets and/or negotiating reductions in rates, each of which has impacted our financial results. Depending on the severity of the economic downturn and the pace of recovery, our operating results could continue to be negatively impacted. - 9 - Table of Contents Even if we complete the refinancing, the cost of our indebtedness is expected to increase substantially, which, when combined with our recent performance of declining revenue, will affect our liquidity and could limit our ability to implement our business plan and respond competitively. Since 2004, our revenue has declined from approximately $562,000 to $404,000. This decrease in revenue has been attributable to a decline in audience and in the quality and quantity of commercial inventory on both a local/regional and a national basis, increased competition, a decline in a number of customer accounts and a substantial reduction in sales persons. Our strategy to increase revenue is dependent on, among other things, our ability to reverse these declines in audience, improve our affiliate base, hire additional sales persons and managers, modernize our distribution system and expand our product offerings to other distribution platforms, all of which, to varying degrees, require additional capital. While we have reached an agreement in principle with our lenders and Gores on the terms of a refinancing, which we anticipate will provide us with access to an additional $35,000 in capital, we cannot be certain the completion of such refinancing will occur. If the refinancing is completed, we anticipate that annual interest payments on our debt will increase from approximately $12,000 to $19,000; $7,000 of this interest may be paid in kind (PIK). If the economy continues to stall and advertisers continue to maintain reduced budgets which do not recover in 2009, notwithstanding the closing of the refinancing, we may be required to delay the implementation or reduce the scope of our business plan and our ability to develop or enhance our services or programs could be curtailed. Without additional revenue and/or capital, we may be unable to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, such as M&A opportunities or securing rights to marquee or popular programming. If any of the foregoing should occur, this could have a material and adverse effect on our business. Our revenue could further decline if the general economy and broadcast industry do not improve and even more so if the economy and industry worsen, and consumer spending remains constrained or is further restricted. Our revenue is largely based on advertisers seeking to stimulate consumer spending. In recent months, consumer confidence has eroded significantly amid the national and global economic slowdown, increased unemployment and layoffs and the general belief that the U.S. has entered a recession, which many now believe to be a sustained recession and/or contraction. Advertising expenditures and consumer spending tend to decline during recessionary periods and they have done so in this economy, as advertising budgets in the retail, automotive and financial services industries have softened. More recently, advertisers (and the agencies that represent them), faced with their own reduced budgets and sales levels, have put increased pressure on advertising rates, in some cases, requesting broad percentage discounts on ad buys, demanding increased levels of inventory and re-negotiating booked orders. Reductions in advertising expenditures and declines in ad rates have affected our revenues. Our business is subject to increased competition resulting from new entrants into our business, consolidated companies and new technology/platforms, each of which has the potential to adversely affect our business. We compete in a highly competitive business. Our radio programming competes for audiences and advertising revenue directly with radio and television stations and other syndicated programming, as well as with other media such as newspapers, magazines, cable television, outdoor advertising and direct mail and more increasingly with digital media. We may experience increased audience fragmentation caused by the proliferation of new media platforms. Additionally, audience ratings and performance-based revenue arrangements are subject to change and any adverse change in a particular geographic area could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to attract not only advertisers in that region, but national advertisers as well. Increased competition, in part, has resulted in reduced market share, and could result in lower audience levels, advertising revenue and ultimately lower cash flow. In addition, the following factors could have an adverse effect upon our financial performance. • advertiser spending patterns, including the notion that orders are placed in close proximity to the time such ads are broadcast, which could affect spending patterns and limit visibility of demand for our products; • the level of competition for advertising dollars; • new competitors or existing competitors with expanded resources, including as a result of consolidation; and • lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products. - 10 - Table of Contents Although we believe that our radio programming will continue to attract audiences and advertisers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively, regain our market share and increase or maintain our current audience ratings and advertising revenue. To the extent we experience a decline in audience for our programs or the cost of programming continues to increase (or in some cases cannot be reduced in connection with the new economic environment), we might be unable to retain the rights to popular programs and advertisers’ willingness to purchase our advertising could be further reduced. Gores Radio Holdings, LLC exercises significant influence and control over our management and affairs. In connection with the investment made by Gores, Gores is entitled to designate three (3) directors to our 11-person Board of Directors and nominate an independent director to the Board. Additionally, for as long as Gores holds 50% of the 7.50% Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (“Series A Preferred Stock”) issued to it on June 19, 2008 (as it does presently), we cannot take certain enumerated actions without Gores’ consent. Such actions include: issuing capital stock; merging or consolidating with another company on or prior to December 19, 2013; selling assets with a fair market value of $25,000 or more; increasing the size of the Board; adopting an annual budget or materially deviating from the approved budget, making capital expenditures in excess of $15,000; or amending our charter or bylaws. To the extent Gores and our management have different viewpoints regarding the desirability or efficacy of taking certain actions in the future, our ability to enact changes we may believe necessary or appropriate could be compromised and the operations of the business could be negatively affected. Shares owned by Gores currently represent approximately 32.7% of the voting power of the Company. Accordingly, Gores would exercise substantial influence on the outcome of most any matter submitted to a vote of our shareholders. The refinancing described elsewhere in this annual report contemplates that Gores will acquire a controlling interest in us and take control of the Board upon consummation of the refinancing. Continued consolidation in the radio broadcast industry could adversely affect our operating results. The radio broadcasting industry has continued to experience significant change, including as a result of a significant amount of consolidation in recent years, and increased business transactions by key players in the radio industry (e.g., Clear Channel, Citadel, ABC and CBS Radio). In connection therewith, certain major station groups have: (1) modified overall amounts of commercial inventory broadcast on their radio stations; (2) experienced significant declines in audience; and (3) increased their supply of shorter duration advertisements which is directly competitive to us. To the extent similar initiatives are adopted by other major station groups, this could adversely impact the amount of commercial inventory made available to us or increase the cost of such commercial inventory at the time of renewal of existing affiliate agreements. Additionally, if the size and financial resources of certain station groups continue to increase, the station groups may be able to develop their own programming as a substitute to that offered by us or, alternatively, they could seek to obtain programming from our competitors. Any such occurrences, or merely the threat of such occurrences, could adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms with our station affiliates, to attract audiences and to attract advertisers. If we do not succeed in these efforts, our operating results could be adversely affected. We may be required to recognize further impairment charges. On an annual basis and upon the occurrence of certain events, we are required to perform impairment tests on our identified intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, which testing could impact the value of our business. At December 31, 2008, we determined that our goodwill was impaired and recorded an impairment charge of $224,073, which is in addition to the impairment change of $206,053 taken on June 30, 2008. The remaining book value of our goodwill at December 31, 2008 is $33,988. Unanticipated differences to our forecasted operational results and cash flows could require a provision for further impairment that could significantly affect our reported earnings in a period of such change. - 11 - Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We have has been delisted from the New York Stock Exchange and do not have immediate plans to list on an alternate exchange. Since November 24, 2008, our common stock ceased to be traded on the NYSE, which has affected the liquidity of our common stock. On March 16, 2009, we were delisted from the NYSE and at this time, we do not have any immediate plans to list on an alternate exchange such as Nasdaq or Amex, which means our common stock will continue to be lightly traded and liquidity may be negatively affected for the foreseeable future. The foregoing list of factors that may affect future performance and the accuracy of forward-looking statements included in the factors above are illustrative, but by no means all-inclusive or exhaustive. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments This item is not applicable. 