Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our Common stock is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value of our Common stock. Risks Related to Our Business Our Operating Income has declined since 2002. We may not be able to reverse this trend. Since 2002, our Operating Income has declined from approximately $166 million to $63 million, with the most significant decline, $144 million to $63 million, occurring in the past two years (exclusive of goodwill impairment charges). In addition, our 2006 results were adversely affected by a $516 million goodwill impairment charge. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to reverse this trend of declining Operating Income or that we will not have future impairment or other charges that adversely affect Operating Income. Even if we are initially successful in reversing the downward trend, we may not be able to sustain the improvement on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to reverse the downward trend in Operating Income will negatively affect the market price of our Common stock, our ability to access capital markets and could result in a violation of a loan covenant. Our business may not grow in the future. Since 2004, our revenue has declined from $562 million to $451 million. This decrease in revenue has been attributable to a decline in audience and commercial inventory on both a local/regional and a national basis, a substantial reduction in sales persons and an increase in competition. Our strategy to grow revenue is dependent on, among other things, our ability to reverse the declines in audience we have experienced, improve our affiliate base, hire additional sales persons and managers, modernize our distribution system and expand our product offerings to other distribution platforms, all of which, to varying degrees, will require an infusion of capital, which as discussed below is presently limited and could be further constrained in the future. Our ability to implement this strategy will also depend on a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, including the general economy, the perception by advertisers and clients that we offer an effective way of reaching their targeted demographic group, and our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and management. We cannot predict at this time to what degree, if any, we will be able to implement our growth strategy successfully. We may not be able to obtain future capital on terms favorable to us, which could have negative consequences on our business. As a result of the deterioration in our operating performance, we amended our senior loan agreement in October 2006 and again in January and February 2008 with a syndicate of banks, increasing the total debt ratio covenant from 3.50 to 1 (effective after March 31, 2008) to 4.00 to 1. Further declines in our operating performance may cause us to seek further amendments to the covenants under our existing senior loan agreement and the Senior Notes or to seek to replace the senior loan agreement, which matures on February 28, 2009, and/or our Senior Notes, in their entirety. Our ability and timing to obtain, if needed, additional amendments or additional financing, or to refinance our existing debt may be impacted by factors outside our control. Additionally any refinancing of our Senior Notes will likely require the payment to our note holders of an amount greater than the principal amount of the Senior Notes due to a make-whole requirement in the Note Purchase Agreement. The amount of such make- whole payment will continue to increase if interest rates continue to decline, and conversely will decrease as interest rates rise. -9- Table of Contents While we recently announced the execution of a purchase agreement with Gores Radio Holdings, LLC (together with certain related entities, “Gores”), an entity managed by The Gores Group, LLC, where they agreed to purchase between $50.0-$75.0 million of 7.5% Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and warrants, the issuance of such preferred stock and warrants is subject to approval by our shareholders. While certain officers and directors executed a voting agreement agreeing to vote in favor of such transaction, holders of a majority of Company Common stock must approve the transaction. If our shareholders do not approve the issues of the preferred stock and warrants, we may be required to obtain additional capital on terms that may be less favorable than the Gores preferred stock/warrants transaction. Furthermore, additional financing may not be available when we need it or, if available, financing may not be on terms favorable to us or to our shareholders. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay the implementation or reduce the scope of our growth strategy, which could adversely affect our business. If financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to develop or enhance our services or programs. In addition, we may be unable to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. Also, if we are unable to refinance or repay our debt at maturity, it could have a material and adverse effect on our business continuity, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our revenue and income could further decline as a result of general and industry-specific economic trends, and declines in consumer spending. Our revenue is largely based on advertisers seeking to stimulate consumer spending. Advertising expenditures and consumer spending tend to decline during recessionary periods, and may also decline at other times. Prolonged weakness in the economy may cause our customers to reduce or cancel orders of airtime. This also may lead to price pressures. Accordingly, our revenue and operating margins could further decline during a general economic downturn. Our audience and revenue may decline as a result of programming changes made by our affiliated stations. While we provide programming to all major radio station groups, we have affiliation agreements with most of CBS Radio’s owned and operated radio stations which, in the aggregate, provide us with a significant portion of the audience and/or commercial inventory that we sell to advertisers. In addition, we are the exclusive provider of the CBS News product and have purchased several other pieces of programming from CBS and its affiliates. Since 2006 we have experienced a material decline in the amount of audience and quantity and quality of commercial inventory delivered by the CBS Radio owned and operated radio stations. Reasons for the decline included: (1) the cancellation of key national programming and the loss of CBS’ Howard Stern; (2) the sale of CBS radio stations; and (3) the reduction of commercial inventory levels, including certain RADAR inventory, provided to us under affiliation agreements. At this time, it is unclear whether this decline is permanent. To the extent the decline is permanent, our operating performance would be materially adversely impacted. Competition may adversely affect our business and cause our stock price to decline. We compete in a highly competitive business. Our radio programming competes for audiences and advertising revenue directly with radio and television stations and other syndicated programming, as well as with such other media as newspapers, magazines, cable television, outdoor advertising and direct mail. Audience ratings and performance-based revenue arrangements are subject to change and any adverse change in a particular geographic area could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to attract not only advertisers in that region, but national advertisers as well. In addition to those described above, future operations are further subject to many factors, which could have an adverse effect upon our financial performance. These factors include: • advertiser spending patterns, including the notion that orders are being placed in close proximity to air, limiting visibility of demand; • the level of competition for advertising dollars, including by new entrants into the radio advertising sales market, including Google; • new competitors or existing competitors with expanded resources, including as a result of consolidation (as described below), NAVTEQ’s purchase of Traffic.com or the proposed merger between XM Satellite Radio and Sirius Satellite Radio; -10- Table of Contents • lower than anticipated market acceptance of new or existing products; • technological changes and innovations; • fluctuations in programming costs; • shifts in population and other demographics; • changes in labor conditions; and • changes in governmental regulations and policies and actions of federal and state regulatory bodies. Although we believe that our radio programming will be able to compete effectively and will continue to attract audiences and advertisers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or increase the current audience ratings and advertising revenue. Continued consolidation in the radio broadcast industry could adversely affect our operating results. The radio broadcasting industry has continued to experience significant change, including as a result of a significant amount of consolidation in recent years, and increased business transactions by key players in the radio industry (e.g., Clear Channel, Citadel, ABC, CBS Radio). In connection therewith, certain major station groups have: (1) modified overall amounts of commercial inventory broadcast on their radio stations, (2) experienced significant declines in audience and (3) increased their supply of shorter duration advertisements which is directly competitive to us. To the extent similar initiatives are adopted by other major station groups, this could adversely impact the amount of commercial inventory made available to us or increase the cost of such commercial inventory at the time of renewal of existing affiliate agreements. Additionally, if the size and financial resources of certain station groups continue to increase, the station groups may be able to develop their own programming as a substitute to that offered by us or, alternatively, they could seek to obtain programming from our competitors. Any such occurrences, or merely the threat of such occurrences, could adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms with our station affiliates, to attract audiences and to attract advertisers, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, changes in U.S. financial and equity markets, including market disruptions and significant interest rate fluctuations, could impede our access to, or increase the cost of, external financing for our operations and investments. We may be required to recognize further impairment charges. On an annual basis and upon the occurrence of certain events, we are required to perform impairment tests on our identified intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, which testing could impact the value of our business. Significant and unanticipated differences to our forecasted operational results and cash flows could require a provision for impairment that could substantially affect our reported earnings in a period of such change. In addition since we operate in one segment, further declines in our stock price may also result in a future impairment charge. Risks Relating to Our Common stock Our stock price has been volatile, is likely to continue to be volatile, and could continue to decline. The price of our Common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. In addition, the stock market in general, and companies in the broadcasting space, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have been disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may continue to negatively affect the market price of our Common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Our stock price may also continue to fluctuate significantly as a result of other factors, some or all of which are beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; • success or failure in our operating and growth strategies; and • realization of any of the risks described in these risk factors. -11- Table of Contents The foregoing list of factors that may affect future performance and the accuracy of forward-looking statements included in the factors above are illustrative, but by no means all-inclusive or exhaustive. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments This item is not applicable. 