Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry While our year-over-year annual operating performance increased for the first time since year end 2005, we continue to incur operating losses and there can be no assurance that our performance will continue to improve. If it does not continue and we were to continue to incur operating losses, we could lack sufficient funds to continue to operate our business in the ordinary course. Our annual operating loss for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased $75,542 to $22,039 from the comparable period in 2009. The decrease was $25,041 absent 2009 goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges of $50,501. While such is an improvement, it remains a significant drop from our operating income of $63,307 in 2007. We cannot provide any assurance as to whether we will be able to continue to increase our operating performance, which has in the past been negatively affected by lower commercial clearance, a decline in our sales force and reductions in national audience levels across the industry and locally at our affiliated stations, and more recently by higher programming fees and station compensation costs. In 2008 and 2009, our operating income was also affected by the weakness in the United States economy and advertising market. In 2010, the overall economic recovery, especially in the advertising marketplace, was slower than we projected and that radio industry analysts had forecast. During the economic downturn, advertisers and the agencies that represent them increased pressure on advertising rates, and in some cases, requested steep percentage discounts on ad buys, demanded increased levels of inventory re-negotiated booked orders and released advertising funds as late as possible in the cycle. Although there has been an improvement in the economy, advertisers’ demands and advertising budgets have not improved to pre-recession levels. If a double-dip recession were to occur or if the economic climate does not improve sufficiently for us to generate advertising revenue to meet our projections, our financial position could worsen to the point where we would lack sufficient liquidity to continue to operate our business in the ordinary course. 7 Table of Contents If our operating results do not achieve our financial projections, we may require additional funding or a further amendment and/or waiver of our debt leverage covenants, which if not obtained, would have a material and adverse effect on our business continuity and our financial condition. We are operating in an uncertain economic environment, where the pace of an advertising recovery is unclear and we are facing increased cost pressures as described above. As further described under “Existing Indebtedness” below, in March 2011 our financial results projections indicated that we would likely not attain sufficient Adjusted EBITDA to comply with our then existing debt leverage covenants in certain fiscal quarters of 2011. As a result, on April 12, 2011 we entered into the waiver and fourth amendment to the Securities Purchase Agreement (see Item 1 Business — Significant Events — Credit Agreement Amendments) which resulted in our previously existing maximum senior leverage ratios of 11.25, 11.0 and 10.0 times for the first three quarters of 2011 being replaced by a covenant waiver for the first quarter of 2011 and minimum LTM EBITDA thresholds of $4,000 and $7,000 for the second and third quarters of 2011. If our operating results fall short of our minimum LTM EBITDA thresholds, we will need a further amendment and/or waiver of our debt leverage covenants or potentially additional funds. If financing is limited or unavailable to us or if we are forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, these conditions could require us to curtail our business activities or increase our cost of financing, both of which could reduce our profitability or increase our losses. If we were to require additional financing or a further amendment or waiver of our debt leverage covenants, which could not then be obtained, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and on our ability to meet our obligations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness and limited liquidity, which could adversely affect our operations, flexibility in running our business and our ability to service our debt if our future operating performance does not meet our financial projections. As of December 31, 2010, we had $111,629 in aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes outstanding (of which approximately $10,161 is PIK (paid-in-kind interest)), which bears interest at a rate of 15.0%, and a Senior Credit Facility consisting of a $20,000 term loan and a $20,000 revolving credit facility under which $15,000 was drawn (not including $1,219 in letters of credit used as security on various leased properties). Such debt matures on July 15, 2012 (and accordingly will become short-term, not long-term, debt in the third quarter of 2011). Loans under our Senior Credit Facility bear interest at LIBOR plus 4.5% (with a LIBOR floor of 2.5%) or a base rate plus 4.5% (with a base rate floor equal to the greater of 3.75% or the one-month LIBOR rate). As described above in Item 1 — Business — Significant Events — Credit Agreement Amendments, on April 12, 2011, we entered into a waiver and fourth amendment with our lenders to replace our debt leverage covenants of 11.25, 11.0 and 10.0 times for the first three quarters of 2011 with a covenant waiver for the first quarter of 2011 and minimum LTM EBITDA thresholds of $4,000 and $7,000 for the second and third quarters of 2011 which amendment includes a 5% debt leverage fee becoming payable for debt outstanding on or after October 1, 2011. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if at any time, we provide satisfactory documentation to our lenders that our debt leverage ratio for any LTM period complies with the following debt covenant levels for the five quarters beginning on June 30, 2011: 5.00, 5.00, 4.50, 3.50 and 3.50, and provided more than 50% of the outstanding amount of non-Gores Senior Notes (i.e., Senior Notes held by the non-Gores holders) shall have been repaid as of such date, then the 5% leverage fee that would otherwise be payable at the end of the calendar quarter after such events occurred would be eliminated on a prospective basis. The April 2011 amendment is in addition to the August 2010 amendment whereby Gores agreed to provide us with $20,000 in additional liquidity, including a guarantee of an additional $5,000 for our revolving credit facility which resulted in Wells Fargo agreeing to increase the amount thereof from $15,000 to $20,000 which provided us with necessary additional liquidity for working capital purposes. Our ability to service our debt for the next twelve months will depend on our financial performance in an uncertain and unpredictable economic environment as well as on competitive pressures. Despite having previously successfully negotiated amendments to our credit documents, if we were to significantly underperform against the minimum LTM EBITDA thresholds listed above we might be unable to further amend our debt agreements on terms that are acceptable to us or our lenders. Further, our Senior Notes and Senior Credit Facility restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness beyond certain minimum baskets. If our operating results decline or we do not meet our minimum LTM EBITDA thresholds, and we are unable to obtain a waiver to increase our indebtedness and/or successfully raise funds through an issuance of equity, we would lack sufficient liquidity to operate our business in the ordinary course, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we were then unable to meet our debt service and repayment obligations under the Senior Notes or the Senior Credit Facility, we would be in default under the terms of the agreements governing our debt, which if uncured, would allow our creditors at that time to declare all outstanding indebtedness to be due and payable and materially impair our financial condition and liquidity. 8 Table of Contents Our Senior Credit Facility and Senior Notes contain various covenants which, if not complied with, could accelerate repayment under such indebtedness, thereby materially and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Our Senior Credit Facility and Senior Notes require us to comply with certain financial and operational covenants. These covenants (as amended on April 12, 2011) include, without limitation: • a debt leverage covenant waiver for the first quarter of 2011; • a minimum LTM EBITDA threshold (measured on a trailing, four-quarter basis) of $4,000 and $7,000 (in the Securities Purchase Agreement) for the second and third quarters of 2011, respectively; • a maximum senior leverage ratio (expressed as the principal amount of Senior Notes over our Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in our lender agreements) measured on a trailing, four-quarter basis) of 9.0 to 1.0 ratio on December 31, 2011, a 8.0 to 1.0 ratio on March 31, 2012, and a 7.5 to 1.0 ratio on June 30, 2012; and • restrictions on our ability to incur debt, incur liens, make investments, make capital expenditures, consummate acquisitions, pay dividends, sell assets and enter into mergers and similar transactions. We waived and/or amended our debt leverage covenants on October 14, 2009, March 30, 2010, August 17, 2010 and most recently on April 12, 2011. As a result of these amendments, our debt leverage covenants have been waived, significantly eased and/or modified to minimum LTM EBITDA thresholds. We believe we will generate sufficient Adjusted EBITDA to comply with our amended debt leverage covenants. However, failure to comply with any of our covenants would result in a default under our Senior Credit Facility and Senior Notes that, if we were unable to obtain a waiver from the lenders or holders thereof, could accelerate repayment under the Senior Credit Facility and Senior Notes and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business. Our Senior Credit Facility and Senior Notes mature on July 15, 2012; if we are unable to refinance or otherwise repay such indebtedness there would be a material and adverse effect on our business continuity and our financial condition. As the maturity date for our Senior Credit Facility and Senior Notes approaches, we are evaluating, and will continue to evaluate, our options to refinance or repay such indebtedness. Options may include potential mergers and acquisitions activity and/or refinancing alternatives in the debt and capital markets, either of which could include a partial or complete paydown of our Senior Notes. In addition to assessing the potential opportunities noted above, we will discuss refinancing options with our Senior Lenders. If we do not have the capital necessary to repay our senior indebtedness when it matures, it will be necessary for us to take significant actions, such as revising or delaying our strategic plans, reducing or delaying planned capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. We may be unable to effect any of these remedial steps on a satisfactory basis, or at all. If we are unable to refinance or otherwise repay our senior debt upon the maturity of our indebtedness, we would be in default, which would result in material adverse consequences for the Company. The cost of our indebtedness is substantial, which further affects our liquidity and could limit our ability to implement our business plan. Interest payments on our debt, which did not include PIK, during 2010 were $11,468. PIK interest which accrues and is added to the principal amount of our debt on a quarterly basis will be approximately $19,050 at maturity on July 15, 2012. As a result of the waiver and fourth amendment to our credit agreements, there is also a 5% debt leverage fee that is equal to 5% of the Senior Notes outstanding for the period beginning October 1, 2011, and shall accrue on a daily basis until the fee amount is paid in full. Like PIK, the accrued and unpaid leverage fee amounts shall be added to the principal amount of the Senior Notes at the end of each calendar quarter which means the debt leverage fee would be $4,907 as of July 15, 2012 assuming no prior repayment. If the economy does not improve more significantly and advertisers continue to maintain reduced budgets and/or if our financial results continue to come under pressure, we may be required to delay the implementation or reduce the scope of our business plan and our ability to develop or enhance our services or programs will likely be impacted. Without additional revenue and capital, we will be unable to take advantage of business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities or securing rights to name-brand or popular programming, or respond to competitive pressures. If any of the foregoing should occur, this could have a material and adverse effect on our business. 9 Table of Contents CBS Radio provides us with a significant portion of our commercial inventory and audience that we sell to advertisers. A material reduction in the audience delivered by CBS Radio stations or a material loss of commercial inventory from CBS Radio would have an adverse effect on our advertising sales and financial results. While we provide programming to all major radio station groups, we have affiliation agreements with most of CBS Radio’s owned and operated radio stations which, in the aggregate, provide us with a significant portion of the audience and commercial inventory that we sell to advertisers, much of which is in the more desirable top 10 radio markets. Although the compensation we pay to CBS Radio under our March 2008 arrangement is adjustable based on the audience levels and commercial clearance it delivers (i.e., the percentage of commercial inventory broadcast by CBS Radio stations), any significant loss of audience or inventory delivered by CBS Radio stations, including, by way of example only, as a result of a decline in station audience, commercial clearance levels or station sales that resulted in lower audience levels, would have a material adverse impact on our advertising sales and revenue. Since implementing the new arrangement in early 2008, CBS Radio has delivered improved audience levels and broadcast more advertising inventory than it had under our previous arrangement. However, there can be no assurance that CBS Radio will maintain these higher levels. As part of the cost reduction actions we undertook in early 2010 to reduce station compensation expense, we and CBS Radio mutually agreed to enter into an arrangement, effective on February 15, 2010, to give back inventory delivered by CBS Radio which resulted in a commensurate reduction in the cash compensation we pay to them. In order to offset our return of inventory to CBS Radio and to help deliver consistent RADAR audience levels over time, we added incremental inventory from non-CBS stations. We also added Metro Traffic inventory from CBS Radio through various stand-alone agreements. We actively manage our inventory, including by purchasing additional inventory for cash. While our arrangement with CBS Radio is scheduled to terminate in 2017, there can be no assurance that such arrangement will not be breached by either party. If our agreement with CBS Radio were terminated as a result of such breach, our results of operations could be materially impacted. Our ability to grow our Metro Traffic business revenue may be adversely affected by the increased proliferation of free of charge traffic content to consumers. Our Metro Traffic business produces and distributes traffic and other local information reports to approximately 2,250 radio and 182 television affiliates and we derive the substantial majority of the revenue attributed to this business from the sale of commercial advertising inventory embedded within these reports. In recent years, the US Department of Transportation and other regional and local departments of transportation have significantly increased their direct provision of real-time traffic and traveler information to the public free of charge. The ability to obtain this information free of charge may result in our radio and television affiliates electing not to utilize the traffic and local information reports produced by our Metro Traffic business, which in turn could adversely affect our revenue from the sale of advertising inventory embedded in such reports. Our ability to improve our operating results largely depends on the audiences we deliver to our advertisers. Our revenue is derived from advertisers who purchase commercial time based on the audience reached by those commercials. Advertisers determine the audience(s) they want to reach according to certain criteria, including the size of the audience, their demographics (e.g., gender, age), the market and daypart in which their commercials are broadcast and the format of the station on which the commercials are broadcast. The new electronic audience measurement technology known as The Portable People Meter™, or PPM™, introduced in 2007 impacted audience levels for most programming across the radio industry in the first few years of its introduction (2008-2010). However, in the most recent book, RADAR 108, that reported ratings for our RADAR inventory (which comprises approximately half of our total inventory) the first 33 markets (including 19 of the top 20 markets) were fully incorporated into the ratings books and all 48 markets have been incorporated (at some level) into the RADAR books which leads us to believe the impact of PPM has been largely absorbed by the marketplace. However, we may continue to be impacted by PPM as 15 markets have yet to be fully incorporated into the ratings books. Audience levels also can change for several reasons other than PPM, including changes in the radio stations included in a RADAR network, such stations’ clearance rates for our inventory, general radio listening trends and additional changes in how audience is measured. In 2010, we were able to offset the impact of audience declines by purchasing additional inventory at cost effective prices, however, if the general economy and advertising market were to recover significantly, inventory could become more expensive. Additionally, additional inventory may need to be purchased in advance of our having definitive data on audience levels, such that if we do not accurately predict how much additional inventory will be required to offset declines in audience, or cannot purchase comparable inventory to our current inventory at efficient prices, our future operating profits could be materially and adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Our business is subject to increased competition from new entrants into our business, consolidated companies and new technologies/platforms, each of which has the potential to adversely affect our business. Our business segments operate in a highly competitive environment. Our radio and television programming competes for audiences and advertising revenue directly with radio and television stations and other syndicated programming. We also compete for advertising dollars with other media such as television, satellite radio, newspapers, magazines, cable television, outdoor advertising, direct mail and, increasingly, digital media. While the overall radio audience has remained stable, these new media platforms have gained an increased share of advertising dollars and their introduction could lead to decreasing revenue for traditional media. Further, as we expend resources to expand our programming and services in new digital distribution channels, our operating results could be negatively impacted until we begin to gain traction in these emerging businesses. New or existing competitors may have resources significantly greater than our own. In particular, the consolidation of the radio industry has created opportunities for large radio groups, such as Clear Channel Communications, CBS Radio and Citadel Broadcasting Corporation to gather information and produce radio and television programming on their own. Although our network radio market share has improved year-over-year according to the October 2010 Miller Kaplan report, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or increase our market share, our audience ratings or our advertising revenue given this competition. To the extent audience for our programs were to decline, advertisers’ willingness to purchase our advertising could be reduced. Additionally, audience ratings and performance-based revenue arrangements are subject to change based on the competitive environment and any adverse change in a particular geographic area could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to attract not only advertisers in that region, but national advertisers as well. In recent years, digital media platforms and the offerings thereon have increased significantly and consumers are playing an increasingly large role in dictating the content received through such mediums. We face increasing pressure to adapt our existing programming as well as to expand the programming and services we offer to address these new and evolving digital distribution channels. Advertising buyers have the option to filter their messages through various digital platforms and as a result, many are adjusting their advertising budgets downward with respect to traditional advertising mediums such as radio and television or utilizing providers who offer “one-stop shopping” access to both traditional and alternative distribution channels. If we are unable to offer our broadcasters and advertisers an attractive full suite of traditional and new media outlets and address the industry shift to new digital mediums, our operating results may be negatively impacted. Our failure to obtain or retain the rights in popular programming could adversely affect our operating results. The operating results from our radio programming and television business depends in part on our continued ability to secure and retain the rights to popular programming and then to sell such programming at a profit. We obtain a significant portion of our programming from third parties. For example, some of our most widely heard broadcasts, including certain NFL and NCAA games, are made available based upon programming rights of varying duration that we have negotiated with third parties. Competition for popular programming that is licensed from third parties is intense, and due to increased costs of such programming or potential capital constraints, we may be outbid by our competitors for the rights to new, popular programming or to renew popular programming currently licensed by us. Even when we are able to secure popular programming, the fee thereof (particularly sports programs and high-profile talent), is often significantly increased as a result of the competitive bidding process, which requires that we sell the advertising in this programming at a sufficiently higher volume and rate to offset the increased fees. Our failure to obtain or retain rights to popular content (or the temporary loss of such content as would be the case for our NFL programming in the event of an NFL lock-out) could adversely affect our operating results. 11 Table of Contents If we are not able to integrate future M&A activity successfully, our operating results could be harmed. We evaluate mergers and acquisitions (“M&A”) opportunities, including acquisitions and dispositions, on an ongoing basis and intend to pursue opportunities in our industry and related industries that can assist us in achieving our growth strategy. The success of our future strategy will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate M&A opportunities and, if necessary, to obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing to fund such opportunities. M&A is inherently risky, and any M&A transactions we do complete may not be successful. Even if we are able to consummate the M&A transactions we pursue, such transactions may involve certain risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • difficulties in integrating and managing the operations, technologies and products of the companies we merge with and/or acquire; • diversion of our management’s attention from normal daily operations of our business; • our inability to maintain the key business relationships and reputations in connection with such M&A; • uncertainty of entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience or in which competitors have stronger market positions; • our dependence on unfamiliar affiliates and partners of the companies we merge with and/or acquire; • insufficient revenue to offset our increased expenses associated with the M&A transactions we consummate or inability to realize the synergies we identify; • our responsibility for the liabilities of the businesses we merge with and/or acquire; and • potential loss of key employees in connection with such M&A. Our success is dependent upon audience acceptance of our content, particularly our radio programs, which is difficult to predict. Revenue from our radio and television businesses is dependent on our continued ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and behavior on a timely basis. Because consumer preferences are consistently evolving, the commercial success of a radio program is difficult to predict. It depends on the quality and acceptance of other competing programs, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which are difficult to predict. An audience’s acceptance of programming is demonstrated by rating points which are a key factor in determining the advertising rates that we receive. Low ratings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising revenue. Consequently, low public acceptance of our content, particularly our radio programs, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be required to recognize further impairment charges. On an annual basis and upon the occurrence of certain events, we are required to perform impairment tests on our identified intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, and long-lived assets which testing could impact the value of our business. We have a history of recognizing impairment charges related to our goodwill and intangible assets. In connection with our Refinancing and our requisite adoption of the acquisition method of accounting, we recorded new values of certain assets such that as of April 24, 2009, our revalued goodwill was $86,414 (an increase of $52,426) and intangible assets were $116,910 (an increase of $114,481). In September 2009, we believe a triggering event occurred as a result of forecasted results for 2009 and therefore we conducted a goodwill impairment analysis that resulted in an impairment charge in our Metro Traffic segment of $50,501. 12 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock may not maintain an active trading market which could affect the liquidity and market price of our common stock. On November 20, 2009, we listed our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market. However, there can be no assurance that an active trading market on the NASDAQ Global Market will be maintained, that our common stock price will increase or that our common stock will continue to trade on the exchange for any specific period of time. If we are unable to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Global Market, we may be subject to a loss of confidence by customers and investors and the market price of our shares may be affected. Sales of additional shares of common stock by Gores or our other lenders could adversely affect the stock price. Gores beneficially owns 17,212,977 shares, or approximately 76.4%, of our common stock, which reflects the common stock it purchased in September 2010 and February 2011. There can be no assurance that at some future time Gores, or our other lenders (who collectively own 20.5% of our common stock), will not, subject to the applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and limitations of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, sell additional shares of our common stock, which could adversely affect our share price. The perception that these sales might occur could also cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Such sales could also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Gores will be able to exert significant influence over us and our significant corporate decisions and may act in a manner that advances its best interest and not necessarily those of other stockholders. As a result of its beneficial ownership of 17,212,977 shares, or approximately 76.4%, of our common stock, Gores has voting control over our corporate actions. For so long as Gores continues to beneficially own shares of common stock representing more than 50% of the voting power of our common stock, it will be able to elect all of the members of our Board and determine the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including matters involving mergers or other business combinations, the acquisition or disposition of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness, the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or other equity securities and the payment of dividends on common stock. Gores may act in a manner that advances its best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders by, among other things: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination; • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting obtain control; or • causing us to enter into transactions or agreements that are not in the best interests of all of our stockholders. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. This provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law could delay or prevent a change of control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. 13 Table of Contents We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently anticipate that we will retain all of our available cash, if any, for use as working capital and for other general corporate purposes. Any payment of future cash dividends will be at the discretion of our Board and will depend upon, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that our Board deems relevant. In addition, our Senior Credit Facility and the Senior Notes restrict the payment of dividends. Any issuance of shares of preferred stock by us could delay or prevent a change of control of our company, dilute the voting power of the common stockholders and adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our Board has the authority to cause us to issue, without any further vote or action by the stockholders, up to 10,000 shares of preferred stock, in one or more series, to designate the number of shares constituting any series, and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof, including dividend rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption, redemption price or prices and liquidation preferences of such series. To the extent we choose to issue preferred stock, any such issuance may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company without further action by the stockholders, even where stockholders are offered a premium for their shares. The issuance of shares of preferred stock with voting rights may adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our other classes of voting stock either by diluting the voting power of our other classes of voting stock if they vote together as a single class, or by giving the holders of any such preferred stock the right to block an action on which they have a separate class vote even if the action were approved by the holders of our other classes of voting stock. The issuance of shares of preferred stock with dividend or conversion rights, liquidation preferences or other economic terms favorable to the holders of preferred stock could adversely affect the market price for our common stock by making an investment in the common stock less attractive. For example, investors in the common stock may not wish to purchase common stock at a price above the conversion price of a series of convertible preferred stock because the holders of the preferred stock would effectively be entitled to purchase common stock at the lower conversion price causing economic dilution to the holders of common stock. The foregoing risk factors that appear above may affect future performance. The accuracy of the forward-looking statements included in the risk factors above are illustrative, but are by no means all-inclusive or exhaustive. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 