ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully review and consider the risks described below, as well as the other information in this report and in other reports and documents we file with the SEC when evaluating our business and future prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us, or that we currently see as immaterial, may also occur. If any of the following risks or any additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business could be materially harmed, and our financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or a portion of the value of your investment in our stock. You should not draw any inference as to the magnitude of any particular risk from its position in the following discussion. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our product candidates require regulatory approvals, and in some cases additional prior development or testing, before marketing. We may be unable to develop, obtain regulatory approval or market any of our product candidates or expand the market of our existing products and technology. If our product candidates are delayed or fail, we will not be able to generate revenues and cash flows from operations, and we may have to curtail or cease our operations. Our Excellagen™ collagen-based product candidates are expected to be regulated under an FDA 510(k) premarketing notification procedure allowing the company or a commercialization partner to market and sell once 510(k) marketing clearance is obtained. There can be no assurance that marketing clearance will be achieved in a timely manner or at all, or that the FDA will not require additional studies or information to be provided for the 510(k) filing to be considered both complete and acceptable. 10 Table of Contents Our nutraceuticals, dietary supplements and other products within our MedPodium healthy lifestyle portfolio are also subject to numerous rules and regulations promulgated by the FDA and other food and health regulatory authorities, including regulations governing the sourcing, manufacture, labeling, handling, storage, marketing and use of such products. In most cases, we will rely on third parties to perform many of these activities, which may not be performed in an effective or timely manner. In addition, we have only limited experience and resources to apply to the marketing, distribution and commercialization of such products; and they face competition from organizations having product development, manufacturing, marketing and distribution resources that are far greater than ours or our collaborators, and these competitors may offer established and new products for addressing the same or similar conditions that could be safer, more effective or less costly than ours, or products that could be marketed or distributed more effectively and more efficiently than ours. Our other product candidates require additional research and development, clinical testing and regulatory clearances before we can market them. To our knowledge, FDA has not yet approved any gene therapy or similar product and there can be no assurance that it will. There are many reasons that our products and product candidates may fail or not advance beyond clinical testing, including the possibility that: • our products and product candidates may be ineffective, unsafe or associated with unacceptable side effects; • our product candidates may fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals or otherwise fail to meet applicable regulatory standards; • our product candidates may be too expensive to develop, manufacture or market; • physicians, patients, third-party payers or the medical community in general may not accept or use our products; • our potential collaborators may withdraw support for or otherwise impair the development and commercialization of our products or product candidates; • other parties may hold or acquire proprietary rights that could prevent us or our potential collaborators from developing or marketing our products or product candidates; or • others may develop equivalent, superior or less expensive products. In addition, our product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of biologics, gene therapy and other products based on innovative technologies. As a result, we are not able to predict whether our research, development and testing activities will result in any commercially viable products or applications. If our product candidates are delayed or we fail to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates, or if we are unable to expand the market of our existing products or related technology, our business, financial condition or results of operations will be negatively affected, and we may have to curtail or cease our operations. We rely on third party clinical research organizations to manage our clinical trials. Under this business model, we have less control over the clinical trials and may experience delays or errors in our clinical trials that could adversely affect our business, financial results and commercial prospects. To obtain regulatory approvals for new products, we must, among other things, initiate and successfully complete multiple clinical trials demonstrating to the satisfaction of the FDA that our product candidates are sufficiently safe and effective for a particular indication. We currently rely on third party clinical research organizations to assist us in designing, administering and assessing the results of those trials. In relying on those third parties, we are dependent upon them to timely and accurately perform their services. We have experienced, and in the future may experience, delays in our clinical trials. Any such delay will result in additional costs, and defer any prospective opportunities to monetize the product candidate. Product development costs to us and our 11 Table of Contents potential collaborators will increase, and our business may be negatively impacted, if we experience delays in testing or approvals or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned, for reasons such as the following: • the FDA or other health regulatory authorities, or institutional review boards, do not approve a clinical study protocol or place a clinical study on hold; • suitable patients do not enroll in a clinical study in sufficient numbers or at the expected rate, or data is adversely affected by trial conduct or patient drop out; • patients experience serious adverse events, including adverse side effects of our drug candidate or device; • patients die during a clinical study for a variety of reasons that may or may not be related to our products, including the advanced stage of their disease and medical problems; • patients in the placebo or untreated control group exhibit greater than expected improvements or fewer than expected adverse events; • third-party clinical investigators do not perform the clinical studies on the anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical study protocol and good clinical practices, or other third-party organizations do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; • service providers, collaborators or co-sponsors do not adequately perform their obligations in relation to the clinical study or cause the study to be delayed or terminated; • regulatory inspections of manufacturing facilities, which may, among other things, require us or a co-sponsor to undertake corrective action or suspend the clinical studies; • the interim results of the clinical study are inconclusive or negative; • the clinical study, although approved and completed, generates data that is not considered by the FDA or others to be sufficient to demonstrate safety and efficacy; and • changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions affect the conduct of the clinical trial or the interpretation of its results. Significant delays may adversely affect our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates and delay our ability to become profitable. If third party organizations do not accurately collect and assess the trial data we may discontinue development of viable product candidates or continue allocating resources to the development and marketing of product candidates that are not efficacious. Either outcome could result in significant financial harm to our company and damage to our reputation. If we are unable to enter into successful sales, marketing and distribution agreements with third parties, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products. In order to commercialize any products successfully, we expect to principally rely on collaborations or other arrangements with third parties to sell, market and distribute our products. To the extent that we enter into licensing, distributorship, co-promotion, co-marketing or other collaborative arrangements, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products, and any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, whose efforts may not meet our expectations or be successful. For example, we expect to depend upon the efforts of third parties to promote and sell our Excellagen™ products if and when they achieve FDA 510(k) marketing clearance, as well our Generx™ product if it should achieve regulatory approval, but there can be no assurance that the efforts of such third parties will meet our expectations or result in any significant product sales. While third parties would be largely responsible for the timing and extent of sales and marketing efforts, they may not dedicate sufficient resources to our product 12 Table of Contents opportunities, and our ability to cause them to devote additional resources or to otherwise promote sales of our products may be limited. In addition, commercialization efforts could be negatively impacted by the delay or failure to obtain additional supportive data for our products. In some cases, third party partners could be responsible for conducting additional clinical trials to obtain such data and our ability to increase the efforts and resources allocated to these trials may be limited. We sold all of the assets and business of our InnerCool Therapies, Inc. in July 2009 and may face claims for damages from the buyer if representations and warranties that we have made in connection with that sale have provided the buyer of those assets with certain indemnification rights. On July 10, 2009 we entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with Phillips Electronics North America Corporation (“Phillips”), pursuant to which we sold to Phillips certain assets and liabilities of our Innercool Therapies, Inc. subsidiary. The sales closed on July 24, 2009. In connection with the transaction, Phillips assumed only certain specified liabilities relating to the business. We retained responsibility for all other liabilities of the business, including contingent and unknown claims that may have existed at the time of sale. Also, in connection with the sale we made certain representations and warranties to Phillips that are standard for such transactions, including representations regarding the condition of the Innercool Therapies assets and liabilities. We have agreed to indemnify Phillips for any damages arising from the breach of any of those representations and warranties, as well as any breach of any covenant under the Asset Purchase Agreement. Our liability for breach of certain representations is contractually capped at $3.5 million; however, claims for damages arising out of certain “Excepted Representations” or any covenant under the Asset Purchase Agreement are not subject to the contractual limitation. At December 31, 2010 we are not aware of a breach of any of terms of this agreement. Under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement, we deposited $1,125,000 of the proceeds from the sale into an escrow account to act as security for our indemnification obligations. We may, however, receive claims in excess of the funds in escrow. Any substantial indemnification claim under the Asset Purchase Agreement, or the defense of any such claim, could result in substantial costs, which would impair our financial condition and disrupt our ability to operate our remaining business. We are a development stage company. We have incurred losses since our inception in December 2003 and expect to incur significant net losses in the foreseeable future and may never become profitable. We have sustained operating losses to date and will likely continue to sustain losses as we seek to develop our products and product candidates. We expect these losses to be substantial because our product development and other costs, including significant amounts we expect to spend on development activities and clinical trials for our product candidates, cannot be offset by our limited revenues during our development stage. As of December 31, 2010, our accumulated deficit was approximately $81 million, and our cash and cash equivalents were approximately $6.6 million. To date, we have generated very limited revenues (mostly associated with our Innercool operations and a Tissue Repair Company grant, both of which have ended), and a large portion of our expenses are fixed, including expenses related to facilities, equipment, contractual commitments and personnel. As a result, we expect our net losses from operations to continue for at least the next five years. Our ability to generate additional revenues and potential to become profitable will depend largely on our ability, alone or with potential collaborators, to efficiently and successfully complete the development of our product candidates, successfully complete pre-clinical and clinical tests, obtain necessary regulatory approvals, and manufacture and market our products. There can be no assurance that any such events will occur or that we will ever become profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we cannot predict the level of such profitability. If we sustain losses over an extended period of time, we may be unable to continue our business. Our business prospects are difficult to evaluate because we are a development stage company and are developing complex and novel medical products. Since we have a relatively short operating history and our product candidates rely on complex technologies, it may be difficult for you to assess our growth, monetization and earnings potential. We have faced and it is likely we will continue to face many of the difficulties new technology companies often face. These include, 13 Table of Contents among others: limited financial resources; developing, testing and marketing new products for which a market is not yet established and may never become established; challenges related to the development, approval and acceptance of a new product; delays in reaching our goals; lack of substantial revenues and cash flow; high product development costs; competition from larger, more established companies; and difficulty recruiting qualified employees for management and other positions. We will likely face these and other difficulties in the future, some of which may be beyond our control. If we are unable to successfully address these difficulties as they arise, our future growth and earnings will be negatively affected. We cannot be certain that our business strategies will be successful or that we will successfully address any problems that may arise. We will need substantial additional capital to develop our products and for our future operations in the near term. If we are unable to obtain such funds when needed, we may have to delay, scale back or terminate our product development or our business. Conducting the costly and time consuming research, pre-clinical and clinical testing necessary to obtain regulatory approvals and bring our products to market will require a commitment of substantial funds in excess of our current capital. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, among others: the progress of our current and new product development programs; the progress, scope and results of our pre-clinical and clinical testing; the time and cost involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; the cost of manufacturing our products and product candidates; the cost of prosecuting, enforcing and defending against patent claims and other intellectual property rights; competing technological and market developments; and our ability and costs to establish and maintain collaborative and other arrangements with third parties to assist in potentially bringing our products to market and/or to monetize the economic value of our product portfolio. We expect we will need to raise additional funds in the future. The audit opinion accompanying our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010, included under Item 8 of this report, includes an explanatory paragraph indicating substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern We will need to raise substantial additional capital to fund our future operations. We cannot be certain that additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. In recent years, it has been difficult for companies to raise capital due to a variety of factors. To the extent we raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities or we issue securities in connection with another transaction, the ownership position of existing stockholders could be substantially diluted. Anti-dilution adjustments to our securities currently outstanding would cause further dilution. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of preferred stock or debt securities, these securities are likely to have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock and may involve significant fees, interest expense, restrictive covenants and the granting of security interests in our assets. Fluctuating interest rates could also increase the costs of any debt financing we may obtain. Raising capital through a licensing or other transaction involving our intellectual property could require us to relinquish valuable intellectual property rights and thereby sacrifice long term value for short-term liquidity. Our failure to successfully address ongoing liquidity requirements would have a substantially negative impact on our business. If we are unable to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms when needed, we may need to take actions that adversely affect our business, our stock price and our ability to achieve cash flow in the future, including possibly surrendering our rights to some technologies or product opportunities, delaying our clinical trials or curtailing or ceasing operations. We acquired the rights to develop the Excellarate product candidate of the Tissue Repair Company in August 2006 and may, in the future, pursue acquisitions of other companies or product rights that, if not successful, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. On August 11, 2006, we acquired rights to develop the Excellarate product candidate of the Tissue Repair Company, a medical technology company focused on the development of growth factor therapeutics for the potential treatment of chronic wounds such as dermal ulcers. These businesses are subject to all of the operational risks that can affect medical technology companies, including those related to regulatory approvals 14 Table of Contents and clinical studies, acceptance of technology, competing technology, intellectual property rights, profitability, suppliers and third party collaborators, adverse publicity, litigation, and retention of key personnel. In the future, we may pursue additional acquisitions of other companies, technologies or products. Acquisitions of businesses or product rights, including Tissue Repair Company transactions, involve numerous risks, including: • our limited experience in evaluating businesses and product opportunities and completing acquisitions; • the use of any existing cash reserves or the need to obtain additional financing to pay for all or a portion of the purchase price of such acquisitions and to support the ongoing operations of the businesses acquired; • the potential need to issue convertible debt, equity securities, stock options and stock purchase warrants to complete an acquisition, which would dilute our stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock; • potential difficulties related to integrating the technology, products, personnel and operations of the acquired company; • requirements of significant capital infusions in circumstances under which the acquired business, its products and/or technologies may not generate sufficient revenue or any revenue to offset acquisition costs or ongoing expenses; • entering markets in which we have no or limited prior direct experience and where competitors have stronger market or intellectual property positions; • disruptions to our ongoing business, diversion of resources, increases in our expenses and distraction of management’s attention from the normal daily operations of our business; • the potential to negatively impact our results of operations because an acquisition may require us to incur large one-time charges to earnings, amortize or write down amounts related to goodwill and other intangible assets, or incur or assume substantial debt or liabilities, or cause adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges; • an uncertain sales and earnings stream, or greater than expected liabilities and expenses, associated with the acquired company, product or product rights; • failure to operate effectively and efficiently as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resources practices; • potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; and • disruptions to our relationships with existing collaborators who could be competitive with the acquired business. There can be no assurance that our Tissue Repair transaction, or other transactions that we may pursue, will ultimately prove successful. If we pursue an acquisition but are not successful in completing it, or if we complete an acquisition but are not successful in integrating the acquired company’s employees, products or operations successfully, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. Our technologies and product candidates may have unacceptable side effects that could delay or prevent product approval. Possible side effects of therapeutic technologies may be serious and life threatening. The occurrence of any unacceptable side effects during or after pre-clinical and clinical testing of our product candidates, or the perception or possibility that our products cause or could cause such side effects, could delay or prevent approval of our products and negatively impact our business. For example, possible serious side effects of viral vector- 15 Table of Contents based gene transfer could potentially include viral or gene product toxicity resulting in inflammation or other injury to the heart or other parts of the body. In addition, the development or worsening of cancer in a patient could potentially be a perceived or actual side effect of gene therapy technologies such as our own. Furthermore, there is a possibility of side effects or decreased effectiveness associated with an immune response toward any viral vector or gene used in gene therapy. The possibility of such response may increase if there is a need to deliver the viral vector more than once. Even if approved for marketing, our technologies and product candidates are relatively novel and unproven and they may fail to gain market acceptance. Our ongoing business and future depends on the success of our technologies and product candidates. Gene-based therapy is a new and rapidly evolving medical approach that has any not been shown to be effective on a widespread basis. Biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have successfully developed and commercialized only a limited number of biologic-based products to date and no gene therapy has yet been successfully commercialized. Our product candidates, and the technology underlying them, are new and unproven and there is no guarantee that health care providers or patients will be interested in our products even if they are approved for use. Our success will depend in part on our ability to demonstrate sufficient clinical benefits, reliability, safety and cost effectiveness of our product candidates and technology relative to other approaches, as well as on our ability to continue to develop our product candidates to respond to competitive and technological changes. If the market does not accept our products or product candidates, when and if we are able to commercialize them, then we may never become profitable. It is difficult to predict the future growth of our business, if any, and the size of the market for our product candidates because the market and technology are continually evolving. There can be no assurance that our technologies and product candidates will prove superior to technologies and products that may currently be available or may become available in the future or that our technologies or research and development activities will result in any commercially profitable products. We may not be able to successfully develop and effectively commercialize our new MedPodium portfolio of healthy lifestyle products. Our ability to develop and commercialize a portfolio of healthy lifestyle products is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties associated with the acquisition, development and commercialization of new products, including ensuring that they can be appropriately manufactured, labeled and shipped by third parties in a manner that complies with applicable regulations, that our sales and other commercialization efforts can be effectively developed and applied to these products, and that the products can be effectively marketed to and favorably received by potential consumers, and not regarded as less safe, less effective or more costly than actual or perceived competitive products. Nutraceutical businesses and other providers of healthy lifestyle products represent a very large and intensely competitive industry. Many of these organizations have financial, technical, product development, manufacturing, marketing and distribution resources that are far greater than ours or our collaborators, and may offer established and new products for addressing the same or similar conditions that could be safer, more effective or less costly than ours, or could be marketed more effectively and efficiently. We may not successfully establish and maintain collaborative and licensing arrangements, which could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates. Our strategy for the development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization of our product candidates generally relies on establishing and maintaining collaborations with licensors and other third parties. For example, we have various licenses from third parties relating to the use and delivery of our Generx product candidates. We may not be able to maintain or expand these or other licenses and collaborations or establish additional licensing and collaboration arrangements necessary to develop and commercialize our product candidates. Even if we are able to maintain or establish licensing or collaboration arrangements, these 16 Table of Contents arrangements may not be on favorable terms and may contain provisions that will restrict our ability to develop, test and market our product candidates. Any failure to maintain or establish licensing or collaboration arrangements on favorable terms could adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition or ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates. We expect to rely at least in part on third party service providers and collaborators to perform a number of activities relating to the development and commercialization of our product candidates, including the manufacture of product materials, the design and conduct of clinical trials, and potentially the obtaining of regulatory approvals and the marketing and distribution of any successfully developed products. Our collaborators also may have or acquire rights to control aspects of our product development and clinical programs. As a result, we may not be able to conduct these programs in the manner or on the time schedule we currently contemplate. In addition, if any of these collaborators withdraw support for our programs or product candidates or otherwise impair their development, our business could be negatively affected. To the extent we undertake any of these activities internally, our expenses may increase. Our success hinges on the proper and effective performance of our service providers and collaborators of their responsibilities under their arrangements with us. Our existing or potential collaborators may not perform their obligations in a timely fashion or in a manner satisfactory to us. We and our present and future collaborators may fail to develop or effectively commercialize products covered by our present and future collaborations if, among other things: • we do not achieve our objectives under our collaboration agreements; • we or our collaborators are unable to obtain patent protection for the products or proprietary technologies we develop in our collaborations; • we are unable to manage multiple simultaneous product discovery and development collaborations; • our collaborators become competitors of ours or enter into agreements with our competitors; • we or our collaborators encounter regulatory hurdles that prevent commercialization of our products; or • we develop products and processes or enter into additional collaborations that conflict with the business objectives of our other collaborators. In addition, conflicts may arise with our collaborators, such as conflicts concerning the interpretation of clinical data, the achievement of milestones, the interpretation of financial provisions or the ownership of intellectual property developed during the collaboration. If any conflicts arise with our existing or future collaborators, they may act in their self-interest, which may be adverse to our best interest. If we or our collaborators are unable to develop or commercialize products, or if conflicts arise with our collaborators, we will be delayed or prevented from developing and commercializing products, which will harm our business and financial results. We will rely on third parties to manufacture our product candidates. There can be no guarantee that we can obtain sufficient and acceptable quantities of our product candidates on acceptable terms, which may delay or impair our ability to develop, test and market such products. Our business strategy relies on third parties to manufacture and produce our products and product candidates and the catheters used to deliver the products in accordance with good manufacturing practices established by the FDA and other regulators. These third party manufacturers are subject to extensive government regulation and must receive FDA approval before they can produce clinical material or commercial product. Our products and product candidates may be in competition with other products for access to these facilities and may be subject to delays in manufacture if third parties give other products greater priority than our products. These third parties also may not deliver sufficient quantities of our products, manufacture our products in 17 Table of Contents accordance with specifications, or comply with applicable government regulations. Successful large-scale manufacturing of gene-based therapy products has been accomplished by very few companies, and it is anticipated that significant process development changes will be necessary before commercializing and manufacturing any of our biologic product candidates. Additionally, if the manufactured products fail to perform as specified, our business and reputation could be severely impacted. If any manufacturing agreement is terminated or any third party service provider or collaborator experiences a significant problem that could result in a delay or interruption in the supply of product materials to us, there are very few contract manufacturers who currently have the capability to produce our product candidates. There can be no assurance that manufacturers on whom we depend will be able to successfully produce our products or product candidates on acceptable terms, or on a timely or cost-effective basis, or in accordance with our product specifications and applicable FDA or other governmental regulations. We must have sufficient and acceptable quantities of our product materials to conduct our clinical trials and to market our product candidates, if and when such products have been approved by the FDA for marketing. If we are unable to obtain sufficient and acceptable quantities of our product material, we may be required to delay the clinical testing and marketing of our products, which would negatively impact our business. If we do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the manufacture and distribution of our products and product candidates, we may incur penalties that may inhibit our ability to commercialize our products and adversely affect our financial condition and ability to become profitable. Our failure or the failure of our potential collaborators or third party manufacturers to comply with applicable FDA or other product-related regulatory requirements including manufacturing, quality control, labeling, safety surveillance, promoting and reporting may result in criminal prosecution, civil penalties, recall or seizure of our products, total or partial suspension of production or an injunction, as well as other regulatory action against our products, product candidates or us. Discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, supplier, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the sale of our products, including a withdrawal of such products from the market. The occurrence of any of these events would negatively impact our business and results of operations. If we are unable to create and maintain sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to perform those functions, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates or market our products. We currently have limited sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. To commercialize our product candidates, if and when such products have been approved and are ready for marketing, we expect either to collaborate with third parties to perform these functions or develop them internally. We have little experience in developing, training or managing a sales force and will incur substantial additional expenses for any products that we market directly. Developing a marketing and sales force is also time consuming and could delay the launch of new products or expansion of existing product sales. We expect that we or a partner will need to develop additional marketing and sales personnel, and/or work with outside providers, to achieve increased sales of our products. In addition, we or our partner will compete with many companies that currently have extensive and well-funded marketing and sales operations. Our or our partner’s marketing and sales efforts may be unable to compete successfully against these companies, in which event our business prospects may suffer. We face intense and increasing competition and must cope with rapid technological change, which may adversely affect our financial condition and/or our ability to successfully commercialize and/or market our products and product candidates. Our competitors and potential competitors include large pharmaceutical and medical device companies and more established biotechnology companies. These companies have significantly greater financial and other 18 Table of Contents resources and greater expertise than us in research and development, manufacturing, pre-clinical and clinical testing, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing. This may make it easier for them to respond more quickly than us to new or changing opportunities, technologies or market needs. Small companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large pharmaceutical companies or through acquisition or development of intellectual property rights. Our larger competitors may be able to devote greater resources to research and development, marketing, distribution and other activities that could provide them with a competitive advantage. Many of these competitors operate large, well-funded research and development programs and have significant products approved or in development. Our potential competitors also include academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for product and clinical development and marketing. Our industry is characterized by extensive research and development, rapid technological change, frequent innovations and new product introductions, and evolving industry standards. Existing products and therapies to treat vascular and cardiovascular disease, including drugs and surgical procedures, as well as competitive approaches to wound healing and tissue repair, will compete directly or indirectly with the products that we are seeking to develop and market. In addition, our competitors may develop more effective or more affordable products, or achieve earlier patent protection or product commercialization and market penetration than us. As these competitors develop their technologies, they may develop proprietary positions that prevent us from successfully commercializing our future products. To be successful, we must be able to adapt to rapidly changing technologies by continually enhancing our products and introducing new products. If we are unable to adapt, products and technologies developed by our competitors may render our products and product candidates uneconomical or obsolete, and we may not be successful in marketing our products and product candidates against competitors. We may never be able to capture and maintain the market share necessary for growth and profitability and there is no guarantee we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. Changes and reforms in the health care system or reimbursement policies may adversely affect the sale of our products and future products or our ability to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement or acceptable prices for our products or future products. We currently have no products approved for marketing. Our ability to earn sufficient returns on our products and future products, if and when such products are approved and ready for marketing, will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for our products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers, managed care organizations and other third-party payers. If we fail to obtain appropriate reimbursement, it could prevent us from successfully commercializing and marketing our products and future products. There have been and will continue to be efforts by governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means, including limiting coverage and the level of reimbursement. We expect that there will continue to be a number of legislative proposals to implement government controls and other reforms to limit coverage and reimbursement. Additionally, third-party payers, including Medicare, are increasingly challenging the price of medical products and services and are limiting the reimbursement levels offered to consumers for these medical products and services. If purchasers or users of our products or future products are not able to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers for the cost of using the products, they may forego or reduce their use. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products, including gene therapy and other therapeutic products and devices, and whether adequate third-party coverage will be available. The announcement or considerations of these proposals or reforms could impair our ability to raise capital and negatively affect our business. 19 Table of Contents If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel and advisors, it may adversely affect our ability to obtain financing, pursue collaborations or develop or market our products or product candidates. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific and regulatory personnel and advisors. The loss of any of our senior management team, in particular Christopher J. Reinhard, our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, President and Treasurer, Tyler M. Dylan-Hyde, our director, Chief Business Officer, General Counsel, Executive Vice President and Secretary, and Dennis M. Mulroy, our Chief Financial Officer, or our vice presidents, or the operating officers of our subsidiaries, could harm our business. We do not maintain any key man life insurance on any of our executive officers. To pursue our business strategy, we will need to hire or otherwise engage qualified scientific personnel and managers, including personnel with expertise in clinical trials, government regulation, manufacturing, marketing and other areas. Competition for qualified personnel is intense among companies, academic institutions and other organizations. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel and advisors, it may negatively affect our ability to successfully develop, test, commercialize and market our products and product candidates. We will use hazardous and biological materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our products and processes will involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of certain hazardous and biological materials and waste products. We and our suppliers and other collaborators are subject to federal, state and local regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of materials and waste products. Even if we and these suppliers and collaborators comply with the standards prescribed by law and regulation, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the coverage of any insurance we may obtain and exceed our financial resources. We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, or at all. We may incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. To the extent we enter markets outside the United States, our business will be subject to political, economic, legal and social risks in those markets, which could adversely affect our business. We are currently conducting a follow on clinical study for our Generx product candidate in Russia, and may attempt to market and sell Generx in Russia and associated CIS markets. There are significant regulatory and legal barriers in markets outside the United States that we must overcome to the extent we enter or attempt to enter markets in countries other than the United States. We will be subject to the burden of complying with a wide variety of national and local laws, including multiple and possibly overlapping and conflicting laws. We also may experience difficulties adapting to new cultures, business customs and legal systems. Any sales and operations outside the United States would be subject to political, economic and social uncertainties including, among others: • changes and limits in import and export controls; • increases in custom duties and tariffs; • changes in currency exchange rates; • economic and political instability; • changes in government regulations and laws; • absence in some jurisdictions of effective laws to protect our intellectual property rights; and • currency transfer and other restrictions and regulations that may limit our ability to sell certain products or repatriate profits to the United States. 20 Table of Contents Any changes related to these and other factors could adversely affect our business to the extent we enter markets outside the United States. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Potential Litigation If our products and product candidates are not effectively protected by valid, issued patents or if we are not otherwise able to protect our proprietary information, or if our right to use intellectual property that we license from third parties is terminated or adversely affected, our financial condition, operations or ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates may be harmed. The success of our operations will depend in part on our ability and that of our licensors to: obtain patent protection for our therapeutics, devices and procedures, and other methods or components on which we rely, both in the United States and in other countries with substantial markets; defend patents once obtained; maintain trade secrets and operate without infringing upon the patents and proprietary rights of others; and obtain appropriate licenses upon reasonable terms to patents or proprietary rights held by others that are necessary or useful to us in commercializing our technology, both in the United States and in other countries with substantial markets. Our business substantially relies on our own or in-licensed intellectual property related to various technologies that are material to our products and processes. We depend on our and our licensors’ abilities to successfully prosecute and enforce the patents, file patent applications and prevent infringement of those patents and patent applications. The licenses and other intellectual property rights we acquire may or may not provide us with exclusive rights. To the extent we do not have exclusive rights, others may license the same technology and may develop the technology more successfully or may develop products similar to ours and that compete with our products. Even if we are provided with exclusive rights, the scope of our rights under our licenses may be subject to dispute and termination or reduction by our licensors or third parties. Our licenses also contain milestones that we must meet and/or minimum royalty or other payments that we must make to maintain the licenses. There is no assurance that we will be able to meet such milestones and/or make such payments. Our licenses may be terminated if we fail to meet applicable milestones or make applicable payments. If we are not able to maintain adequate patent protection for our products and product candidates, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from using our technology or technology that we license. The patent positions of the technologies being developed by us and our collaborators involve complex legal and factual uncertainties. As a result, we cannot be certain that we or our collaborators will be able to obtain adequate patent protection for our products or product candidates. There can be no assurance that (i) any patents will be issued from any pending or future patent applications of ours or our collaborators; (ii) the scope of any patent protection will be sufficient to provide us with competitive advantages; (iii) any patents obtained by us or our collaborators will be held valid if subsequently challenged; or (iv) others will not claim rights in or ownership of the patents and other proprietary rights we or our collaborators may hold. Unauthorized parties may try to copy aspects of our products and technologies or obtain and use information we consider proprietary. Policing the unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. We cannot guarantee that no harm or threat will be made to our or our collaborators’ intellectual property. In addition, changes in, or different interpretations of, patent laws in the United States and other countries may also adversely affect the scope of our patent protection and our competitive situation. Due to the significant time lag between the filing of patent applications and the publication of such patents, we cannot be certain that our licensors were the first to file the patent applications we license or, even if they were the first to file, also were the first to invent, particularly with regards to patent rights in the United States. In addition, a number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and research and academic institutions have developed technologies, filed patent applications or received patents on various technologies that may be related to our operations. Some of these technologies, applications or patents may conflict with our or our licensors’ technologies or patent applications. A conflict could limit the scope of the patents, if any, that we or our licensors may be able to obtain or result in denial of our or our licensors’ patent applications. If patents that cover our activities are issued to other companies, we may not be able to develop or obtain alternative technology. 21 Table of Contents Patents issued and patent applications filed internationally relating to gene therapy and biologics, collagen-based products, and other of our technologies are numerous, and we cannot assure you that current and potential competitors or other third parties have not filed or received, or will not file or receive applications in the future for patents or obtain additional proprietary rights relating to products or processes used or proposed to be used by us. Additionally, there is certain subject matter that is patentable in the United States but not generally patentable outside of the United States. Differences in what constitutes patentable subject matter in various countries may limit the protection we can obtain outside of the United States. For example, methods of treating humans are not patentable in many countries outside of the United States. These and other issues may prevent us from obtaining patent protection outside of the United States, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to costly claims, and, if we are unsuccessful in resolving conflicts regarding patent rights, we may be prevented from developing, commercializing or marketing our products and/ or product candidates. There has been, and will likely continue to be, substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology industry. As the biotechnology industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our processes, technology, products and product candidates may give rise to claims that they infringe on the patents of others. Others could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to stop clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing of the affected product or use of the affected process. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our or our licensors’ proprietary rights or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. If we become involved in litigation, it could be costly and divert our efforts and resources. In addition, if any of our competitors file patent applications in the United States claiming technology also invented by us or our licensors, we may need to participate in interference proceedings held by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention and the right to a patent for the technology. Like litigation, interference proceedings can be lengthy and often result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. If we are unsuccessful in defending against any adverse claims, we could be compelled to seek licenses from one or more third parties who could be direct or indirect competitors and who might not make licenses available on terms that we find commercially reasonable or at all. In addition, such proceedings, even if decided in our favor, involve lengthy processes, are subject to appeals, and typically result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. As more potentially competing patent applications are filed, and as more patents are actually issued, in the fields of gene therapy, biologics, collagen-based products, wound healing and tissue repair, adenoviral vectors or in other fields in which we may become involved and with respect to component methods or compositions that we may employ, the risk increases that we or our licensors may be subjected to litigation or other proceedings that claim damages or seek to stop our manufacturing, marketing, product development or commercialization efforts. Even if such patent applications or patents are ultimately proven to be invalid, unenforceable or non-infringed, such proceedings are generally expensive and time consuming and could consume a significant portion of our resources and substantially impair our marketing and product development efforts. If there were an adverse outcome of any litigation or interference proceeding, we could have a potential liability for significant damages. In addition, we could be required to obtain a license to continue to make or market the affected product or use the affected process, or face an injunction to block our sale or marketing of affected products or use of the affected process. Costs of a license may be substantial and could include up-front payments as well as ongoing royalties. We may not be able to obtain such a license on acceptable terms, or at all, which could substantially impact our business. 22 Table of Contents We may not have adequate protection for our unpatented proprietary information, which could adversely affect our competitive position. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive position. However, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our technology. To protect our trade secrets, we may enter into confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and potential collaborators. However, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets or adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. Likewise, our trade secrets or know-how may become known through other means or be independently discovered by our competitors. Any of these events could prevent us from developing or commercializing our product candidates. We face the risk of product liability claims, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our marketing and will expose us to product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of biotechnology and medical device products. Failure to obtain or maintain sufficient product liability insurance or otherwise protect against product liability claims could prevent or delay the commercialization or marketing of our products or product candidates or expose us to substantial liabilities and diversions of resources, all of which can negatively impact our business. Regardless of the merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in withdrawal of product candidates from clinical trials, costs of litigation, damage to our reputation, substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs and decreased demand for products. Product liability may result from harm to patients using our products, such as a complication that was either not communicated as a potential side effect or was more extreme than communicated. We will require all patients enrolled in our clinical trials to sign consents, which explain various risks involved with participating in the trial. However, patient consents provide only a limited level of protection, and it may be alleged that the consent did not address or did not adequately address a risk that the patient suffered from. Additionally, we will generally be required to indemnify the clinical product manufacturers, clinical trial centers, medical professionals and other parties conducting related activities in connection with losses they may incur through their involvement in the clinical trials. We may not be able to obtain or maintain product liability insurance on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We will need substantial additional capital to develop our products and for our future operations in the near term, which can adversely affect our stock price and valuation We will need to raise substantial additional capital to fund our future operations. To the extent we raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities or we issue securities in connection with another transaction, our stock price can be adversely affected and the ownership position of existing stockholders could be substantially diluted. Anti-dilution adjustments to our securities currently outstanding would cause further dilution. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of preferred stock or debt securities, these securities are likely to have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock and may involve significant fees, interest expense, restrictive covenants and the granting of security interests in our assets. Fluctuating interest rates could also increase the costs of any debt financing we may obtain. Raising capital through a licensing or other transaction involving our intellectual property could require us to relinquish valuable intellectual property rights and thereby sacrifice long term value for short-term liquidity. 23 Table of Contents The exercise of our outstanding warrants will significantly dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. The exercise of some or all of our outstanding warrants would significantly dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such exercise could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. A delisting from the NYSE Amex could adversely affect the price of our common stock. On December 23, 2008, we received a notice from the staff of the NYSE AMEX noting that, based on their review of publicly available information, we did not meet certain of the Exchange’s continued listing standards. On March 5, 2010, the exchange notified us that, based on its review of information provided by the Company, we made a reasonable demonstration of our ability to regain compliance with applicable listing requirements. Our ability to maintain our listing on the NYSE Amex is predicated on our continued compliance with the exchange’s continued listing standards, including standards related to minimum shareholders’ equity. If our common stock was delisted from the exchange, it would be traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, which could happen, adversely affecting the price of our common stock. The price of our common stock is expected to be volatile and an investment in our common stock could decline substantially in value. In light of our small size and limited resources, as well as the uncertainties and risks that can affect our business and industry, our stock price is expected to be highly volatile and can be subject to substantial drops, with or even in the absence of news affecting our business. The following factors, in addition to the other risk factors described in this report, and the potentially low volume of trades in our common stock, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, some of which are beyond our control: • changes in economic conditions in the United States and worldwide; • the availability to us or other companies of credit; • anticipated or unanticipated changes in financial condition, operating results or the perceived value of our business; • anticipated or unanticipated changes that affect our ability to maintain the listing of our common stock on a national exchange; • developments concerning any research and development, clinical trials, manufacturing, and marketing efforts or collaborations; • our announcement of significant acquisitions, strategic collaborations, joint ventures or capital commitments; • announcements of technological innovations; • new products or services that we or our competitors offer; • the initiation, conduct and/or outcome of intellectual property and/or litigation matters; • changes in financial or other estimates by securities analysts or other reviewers or evaluators of our business; • conditions or trends in bio-pharmaceutical or other healthcare industries; • regulatory developments in the United States and other countries; • changes in the economic performance and/or market valuations of other biotechnology and medical device companies; • additions or departures of key personnel; • sales or other transactions involving our common stock; and • global unrest, terrorist activities, and economic and other external factors. 24 Table of Contents The stock market in general has recently experienced relatively large price and volume fluctuations. In particular, the market prices of securities of smaller biotechnology and medical device companies have experienced dramatic fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results of these companies. Continued market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of the common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of the common stock. You should also be aware that price volatility may be worse if the trading volume of the common stock remains limited or declines. We could be difficult to acquire due to anti-takeover provisions in our charter, our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law. Our board of directors has adopted a stockholder rights plan in which preferred stock purchase rights were distributed as a dividend. These provisions may make it more difficult for stockholders to take corporate actions and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. These provisions also could deter or prevent transactions that stockholders deem to be in their interests. In addition, we are subject to the anti- takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Subject to specified exceptions, this section provides that a corporation may not engage in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company. The foregoing factors could reduce the price that investors or an acquirer might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our capital stock and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition any future debt or credit facility we obtain also may preclude or limit our ability to pay any dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 25 Table of Contents 