Item 1A. Risk Factors Affecting Our Business and Prospects 7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 14 Item 2. Properties 14 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 15 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Securities Holders 16 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 16 Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data 19 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 19 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 29 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 30 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 59 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 59 PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 62 Item 11. Executive Compensation 62 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management 62 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 62 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 62 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 62 Signatures 65 Exhibit Index Financial Certifications Consent of Ernst & Young LLP Certification of CEO Pursuant to Section 302 Certification of CFO Pursuant to Section 302 Certification of CEO Pursuant to Section 906 Certification of CFO Pursuant to Section 906 Page 2 of 65 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business Cirrus Logic, Inc. (“Cirrus Logic,” “Cirrus,” “We,” “Us,” “Our,” or the “Company”) develops high-precision, analog and mixed-signal integrated circuits (“ICs”) for a broad range of consumer and industrial markets. Building on our diverse analog mixed-signal patent portfolio, Cirrus Logic delivers highly optimized products for consumer and commercial audio, automotive entertainment and industrial applications. We develop and market ICs and embedded software used by original equipment manufacturers. We also provide complete system reference designs based on our technology that enable our customers to bring products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. We were founded in 1984 and were reincorporated in the State of Delaware in February 1999. Our headquarters and engineering facility are in Austin, Texas with design centers in Beijing and Shanghai in the People’s Republic of China and sales locations throughout the United States. We also serve customers from international sales offices in Europe and Asia, including the People’s Republic of China, Hong Kong, South Korea, Japan, Singapore and Taiwan. Our common stock, which has been publicly traded since 1989, is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol CRUS. We maintain a Web site with the address www.cirrus.com. We are not including the information contained on our Web site as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge through our Web site our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”). To receive a free copy of this Form 10-K, please forward your written request to Cirrus Logic, Inc., Attn: Investor Relations, 2901 Via Fortuna, Austin, Texas 78746, or via email at InvestorRelations@cirrus.com. Background of the Semiconductor Industry In general, the semiconductor industry produces three types of products: analog, digital and mixed-signal. Analog semiconductors process a continuous range of values that can regulate functions such as temperature, speed, sound, video images and electrical current. Digital semiconductors process discrete values, for example, two values, such as 0s and 1s, used by computers. Mixed-signal semiconductors combine analog and digital functions in a single product. In the consumer electronics industry, audio soundtracks and video images were originally transmitted, edited and stored almost exclusively using analog formats. Given advances in technology, audio and video now can be stored in digital format. This format allows for the manipulation of audio and video signals through digital signal processors (“DSPs”). With digital signal processors, digital audio and digital video signals can be compressed, improving storage and efficiencies in transmissions and they can be transmitted and reproduced without degradation in the sound or images. The digital format also allows for greater security from unauthorized copying, better editing capabilities and random access to data. In addition, increasing advances in semiconductor technology are resulting in the convergence of consumer electronics products, which means cost savings, added convenience, and functionality for consumers. For example, compact disc (“CD”) players were introduced to play audio content in the CD format only. Later, digital video disc (“DVD”) players were introduced, combining audio with video. These consumer electronics products now support additional audio and video formats, such as MP3 audio and MPEG-4 video. As these digital home entertainment systems have converged and have become increasingly complex, a need has arisen among makers of these systems for sophisticated IC chips that have many features and are cost-effective. Manufacturers of consumer electronics products also face expedited time-to-market demands and, because analog or mixed-signal IC design is a specialized field of IC design, manufacturers increasingly are asking third parties to provide advanced, analog or mixed-signal ICs. The design of the analog component of a mixed-signal IC is complex and difficult, and requires engineers to optimize speed, power and resolution within standard manufacturing processes. Markets and Products We are focused on becoming a leader in high-precision analog and mixed-signal ICs for a broad range of consumer and industrial markets. Our primary product lines include: Mixed-Signal Audio Products: High-precision analog and mixed-signal products for consumer, professional and automotive entertainment markets. Industrial Products: High-precision analog and mixed-signal components for industrial measurement applications, such as industrial process control, analytical instruments, consumer utility, digital power meters and seismic systems. Page 3 of 65 Table of Contents Embedded Products: High-precision processors and software for consumer audio, professional audio and industrial applications. We offer approximately 650 products to over 2,500 end-customers worldwide through both direct and indirect sales channels. Our major customers are among the world’s leading electronics manufacturers. We target both large existing and emerging growth consumer electronic markets that derive value from our expertise in advanced analog and mixed-signal design processing, systems-level integrated circuit engineering and embedded software development. We derive our revenue both domestically and from a variety of locations across the globe, including the People’s Republic of China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, South Korea, Japan, the European Union, and the United Kingdom. The following table summarizes sales to distributors that represent more than 10 percent of our consolidated net sales: March 31, March 25, March 26, 2007 2006 2005 Avnet, Inc. (formerly Memec Holdings Group) 29 % 25 % 27 % MIXED-SIGNAL AUDIO PRODUCTS We are a recognized leader in analog and mixed-signal audio converter technologies that enable today’s new consumer, professional and automotive entertainment products. Our products include analog-to-digital converters (“ADCs”), digital-to-analog converters (“DACs”), chips that integrate ADCs and DACs into a single IC, otherwise known as coder-decoders (“CODECs”), digital interface ICs, volume controls and digital amplifiers. Our broad portfolio of approximately 290 active proprietary products includes the following products, which have been added in the past fiscal year: • The CS44130 Class-D power stage IC for stereo and 2.1 channel applications for consumer electronic products that demand high quality audio within small product designs, such as digital televisions, home theater systems, shelf systems, desktop speakers, PC sound cards and networked audio systems; • The CS4352 DAC, which offers a strong combination of audio performance and feature integration, targets mainstream consumer audio products, such as flat-panel digital televisions, DVD recorders, set-top boxes, game consoles and sound cards; • The CS42L52 low-power stereo codec, which provides up to one watt-per-channel of highly efficient Class D amplification to external speakers, ideal for portable consumer electronics applications such as portable media players, game devices, MP3 player accessories, IC recorders, digital cameras and camcorders; and • The CS4350 DAC, a complete stereo audio converter with on-chip master clock, noteworthy for its superior audio quality and ease of design. The CS4350 is ideal for set-top boxes, digital televisions, personal video recorders, DVD players and recorders, A/V receivers and automotive applications such as head units, telematics and in-car entertainment systems. Our products are used in a wide array of consumer applications, including audio/video receivers (“AVRs”), DVD players and recorders, complete home theater systems, set-top boxes, MP3 players, gaming devices, sound cards and digital televisions. Applications for products within professional markets include digital mixing consoles, multitrack digital recorders and effects processors. Applications for products within automotive markets include amplifiers, satellite radio systems, telematics and multi-speaker car-audio systems. Our analog and mixed-signal audio converters support a customer base featuring such leading companies as BBK, Bose, Cisco, Creative, Harman Kardon, iRiver, Korg, LG Electronics, Marantz, Panasonic, Philips, Sony and Samsung. Key competitors to Cirrus Logic in this product line include Wolfson Microelectronics, AKM, Texas Instruments/Burr Brown, Analog Devices and Maxim. INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS We provide high-precision analog and mixed-signal ICs for industrial measurement applications. We have more than 180 active proprietary products which include ADCs, DACs, successive approximation register (“SAR”) converters and amplifier ICs. Our products are used in a wide array of high-precision, industrial measurement applications including industrial process control, analytical and medical instruments, consumer utility, digital power meters and seismic systems. New additions to our proprietary product portfolio in the past fiscal year include: • The CS5530 single-channel ADC, which opens our market-leading high-resolution Delta-Sigma ADC technology to the lower-cost weigh scale and temperature controller markets; and Page 4 of 65 Table of Contents • The CS3003 family of low-noise operational amplifiers, which broadens our portfolio of devices offering the best available combination of precision and gain, to include low power consumption devices. Our key competitors in industrial applications include Analog Devices, Texas Instruments/Burr Brown, Teridian Semiconductor, Maxim, Austriamicrosystems and Linear Technologies. EMBEDDED PRODUCTS We provide a wide variety of embedded processor technologies for consumer and industrial markets. Our embedded portfolio is made up of approximately 170 active proprietary products. These embedded processors include audio DSPs primarily targeted at consumer audio applications, ARM7- and ARM9-based embedded processors focused on industrial applications, CobraNetTM ICs and modules for commercial and professional audio markets, and Ethernet MACs and T1/E1 line interface units. We offer advanced ICs combined with innovation in software solutions, providing our customers features that differentiate their products against their competitors. We offer a family of 24- and 32-bit audio DSPs targeted at a wide range of applications such as audio/video receivers, automotive entertainment, set-top boxes, digital televisions and DVD receivers. In addition, we provide our customers standard audio algorithms, as well as proprietary audio enhancement algorithms, such as Intelligent Room Calibration software. In the general-purpose processor market, our ARM family of processors offers a highly integrated 32-bit system-on-a-chip solution with a wide array of price-performance-integration points for industrial applications. These embedded processors support popular third-party software such as Linux and WinCE Nettm. In networked digital audio applications, our proprietary CobraNet controller ICs enable delivery of uncompressed digital audio over Ethernet networks. In doing so, the distributed audio co-exists with standard Ethernet network data traffic. New embedded products introduced in the last fiscal year include: • The CS4953X, a 32-bit, dual-core audio DSP family that provides a complete digital audio processor for multichannel audio applications such as AVRs; and • The CS485XX, a 32-bit single-core audio DSP family product that provides a complete audio post-processing solution to deliver advanced audio features and home-theater-like audio quality for all types of consumer electronic products. Our embedded product customers include Bose, Harman Kardon, Hitachi, inkel, Kenwood, Logitech, Marantz, Onkyo, Panasonic, Pioneer, RCA/Thomson S.A., Sharp and Sony. Our competitors in embedded product solutions include Analog Devices, ATMEL, Freescale Semiconductor, IDT, Realtek, Samsung, Sigmatel and Texas Instruments/Burr Brown. Manufacturing We contract with third parties for all of our wafer fabrication, assembly, and test services. Our fabless manufacturing strategy allows us to concentrate on our design strengths, minimize fixed costs and capital expenditures, access advanced manufacturing facilities and provide flexibility to source multiple leading-edge technologies through strategic relationships. After wafer fabrication by the foundry, third-party assembly vendors package the wafer die. The finished products are then sent for testing before shipment to our customers. Our supply chain management organization is responsible for the management of all aspects of the manufacturing and testing of our products, including process and package development, test program development, and production testing of products in accordance with our ISO-certified quality management system. We use multiple foundries, assembly and test houses. Patents, Licenses and Trademarks We rely on trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property products and technology. We intend to continue this practice in the future to protect our products and technologies. As of March 31, 2007, we held 983 U.S. patents, 140 U.S. patent applications pending and various corresponding international patents and applications. Our U.S. patents expire in years 2007 through 2026. We have obtained U.S. federal registrations for the CIRRUS LOGIC®, CIRRUS® and CRYSTAL® trademarks as well as our Cirrus Logic logo trademark. These U.S. registrations may be renewed as long as the marks continue to be used in interstate commerce. We have also filed or obtained foreign registration for these marks in other countries or jurisdictions where we conduct, or anticipate conducting, international business. Page 5 of 65 Table of Contents To complement our own research and development efforts, we have also licensed and expect to continue to license, a variety of intellectual property and technologies important to our business from third parties. Research and Development We concentrate our research and development efforts on the design and development of new products for each of our principal markets. We also fund certain advanced-process technology development, as well as other emerging product opportunities. Expenditures for research and development in fiscal years 2007, 2006, and 2005, were $44.0 million, $45.8 million, $80.5 million, respectively. These amounts include amortization of acquired intangibles of $0.3 million, $1.4 million $13.7 million, in fiscal years 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. Our future success is highly dependent upon our ability to develop complex new products, to transfer new products to volume production in a timely fashion, to introduce them to the marketplace ahead of the competition and to have them selected for design into products of systems manufacturers. Our future success may also depend on assisting our customers with integration of our components into their new products, including providing support from the concept stage through design, launch and production ramp. Competition Markets for our products are highly competitive and we expect that competition will continue to increase. We compete with other semiconductor suppliers that offer standard semiconductors, application-specific standard product and fully customized ICs, including embedded software, chip and board-level products. A few customers also develop ICs that compete with our products. Our strategy involves providing lower-cost versions of existing products and new, more advanced products for customers’ new designs. While no single company competes with us in all of our product lines, we face significant competition in each of our major product lines, as detailed above in our product line discussions. We expect to face additional competition from new entrants in our markets, which may include both large domestic and international IC manufacturers and smaller, emerging companies. The principal competitive factors in our markets include time to market; quality of hardware/software design and end-market systems expertise; price; product benefits that are characterized by performance, features, quality and compatibility with standards; access to advanced process and packaging technologies at competitive prices; and sales and technical support, including assisting our customers with integration of our components into their new products and providing support from the concept stage through design, launch and production ramp. Competition typically occurs at the design stage, where the customer evaluates alternative design approaches that require ICs. Many of our products have not been available from second sources; thus, once our ICs have been designed into a customer’s system, we generally do not face direct competition in selling our products. Product life cycles vary greatly by product category. For example, many consumer electronic devices have shorter design-in cycles; therefore, our competitors have increasingly frequent opportunities to achieve design wins in next-generation systems. Conversely, this also provides us more frequent opportunities to displace competitors in products we have previously not been designed in. The industrial and automotive markets typically have longer life cycles, which provide continued revenue streams over long periods of time. In the event that competitors succeed in supplanting our products, our market share may not be sustainable and net sales, gross margins and earnings could be adversely affected. Sales, Marketing and Technical Support Export sales, which include sales to customers with manufacturing plants outside the United States, were 62 percent, 66 percent and 67 percent, in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We maintain a worldwide sales force, which is intended to provide geographically specific selling support to our customers and specialized selling of product lines with unique customer bases. Our domestic sales force includes a network of regional direct sales offices located in California, Florida, Massachusetts, Nevada, Oregon and Texas. International sales offices and staff are located in Hong Kong, Shanghai and Shenzen in the People’s Republic of China, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Japan and the United Kingdom. We supplement our direct sales force with external sales representatives and distributors. Our technical support staff is located in Texas, Beijing and Shanghai in the People’s Republic of China. Backlog Sales are made primarily pursuant to standard short-term purchase orders for delivery of standard products. The quantity actually ordered by the customer, as well as the shipment schedules, are frequently revised, without significant Page 6 of 65 Table of Contents penalty, to reflect changes in the customer’s needs. We utilize backlog as an indicator to assist us in production planning. However, backlog is influenced by several factors including market demand, pricing and customer order patterns in reaction to product lead times. Quantities actually purchased by customers, as well as prices, are subject to variations between booking and delivery to reflect changes in customer needs or industry conditions. As a result, we believe that our backlog at any given time is not a reliable indicator of future revenues. Employees As of March 31, 2007, we had 456 full-time employees, of whom 53 percent were engaged in research and product development activities, 41 percent in sales, marketing, general and administrative activities and 6 percent in manufacturing-related activities. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical, marketing, engineering and administrative personnel. Due to the highly competitive nature of the marketplace that we operate in, we may from time-to-time lose key employees to our competitors. We have been able to hire qualified personnel in the past to fill open positions created by these occurrences, although there can be no assurance that we will be able to do this in the future. None of our employees are represented by collective bargaining agreements. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Affecting Our Business and Prospects Our business faces significant risks. The risk factors set forth below may not be the only risks that we face. Additional risks that we are not aware of yet or that currently are not significant may adversely affect our business operations. You should read the following cautionary statements in conjunction with the factors discussed elsewhere in this and other Cirrus Logic’s filings with the Commission. These cautionary statements are intended to highlight certain factors that may affect the financial condition and results of operations of Cirrus Logic and are not meant to be an exhaustive discussion of risks that apply to companies such as ours. Our results may be affected by the fluctuation in sales in the consumer entertainment market. Because we sell products in the consumer entertainment market, we are likely to be affected by seasonality in the sales of our products. Further, a decline in consumer confidence and consumer spending relating to economic conditions, terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, oil prices, global health conditions and/or the political stability of countries in which we operate or sell into could have a material adverse effect on our business. The highly cyclical and volatile nature of our industry may affect our operating results. We are subject to business cycles and it is difficult to predict the timing, length or volatility of these cycles. During downturns, customers usually reduce purchases, delay delivery of products, shorten lead times on orders and/or cancel orders. During upturns, our third party suppliers and contract manufacturers may have capacity or supply constraints that result in higher costs, longer lead times, and/or an inability to meet customer demand. These business cycles may create pressure on our sales, gross margins and/or operating results. We cannot assure that any future downturn or upturn will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We cannot assure that we will not experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in revenue due to general semiconductor industry conditions or other factors. Our failure to develop and timely introduce new products that gain market acceptance could harm our operating results. Our success depends upon our ability to develop new products for new and existing markets, to introduce these products in a timely and cost-effective manner, and to have these products gain market acceptance. New product introductions involve significant risks. For example, delays in new product introductions or less-than-anticipated market acceptance of our new products are possible and would have an adverse effect on our revenue and earnings. The development of new products is highly complex and, from time-to-time, we have experienced delays in developing and introducing these new products. Successful product development and introduction depend on a number of factors, including: • proper new product definition; • timely completion of design and testing of new products; • assisting our customers with integration of our components into their new products, including providing support from the concept stage through design, launch and production ramp; Page 7 of 65 Table of Contents • successfully developing and implementing the software necessary to integrate our products into our customers’ products; • achievement of acceptable manufacturing yields; • availability of wafer, assembly and test capacity; • market acceptance of our products and the products of our customers; and • obtaining and retaining industry certification requirements. Although we seek to design products that have the potential to become industry standard products, we cannot assure that market leaders will adopt any products introduced by us, or that any products initially accepted by our customers who are market leaders will become industry standard products. Both revenues and margins may be materially affected if new product introductions are delayed, or if our products are not designed into successive generations of our customers’ products. We cannot assure that we will be able to meet these challenges, or adjust to changing market conditions as quickly and cost-effectively as necessary to compete successfully. Our failure to develop and introduce new products successfully could harm our business and operating results. Successful product design and development is dependent on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified design engineers, of which there is a limited number. Due to the complexity and variety of analog and high-precision analog and mixed-signal circuits, the limited number of qualified integrated circuit designers and the limited effectiveness of computer-aided design systems in the design of analog and mixed-signal ICs, we cannot assure that we will be able to successfully develop and introduce new products on a timely basis. Our products are complex and could contain defects, which could result in material costs to us. Product development in the markets we serve is becoming more focused on the integration of multiple functions on individual devices. There is a general trend towards increasingly complex products. The greater integration of functions and complexity of operations of our products increases the risk that our customers or end users could discover latent defects or subtle faults after volumes of product have been shipped. This could result in: • damage to our reputation; • a material recall and replacement costs for product warranty and support; • payments to our customer related to such recall claims as a result of various industry or business practices, or in order to maintain good customer relationships; • an adverse impact to our customer relationships by the occurrence of significant defects; • a delay in recognition or loss of revenues, loss of market share, or failure to achieve market acceptance; and • a diversion of the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts. In addition, any defects or other problems with our products could result in financial or other damages to our customers who could seek damages from us for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. In particular, the sale of systems and components into certain applications for the automotive industry involves a high degree of risk that such claims may be made. While we believe that we are reasonably insured against these risks and contractually limit our financial exposure, we cannot assure that we will be able to obtain sufficient insurance, in terms of amounts or scope, to provide us with adequate coverage against all potential liability. We have historically experienced fluctuations in our operating results and expect these fluctuations to continue in future periods. Our quarterly and annual operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could materially and adversely affect our net sales, gross margins and operating results. These factors include: • the volume and timing of orders received; • changes in the mix of our products sold; • market acceptance of our products and the products of our customers; • competitive pricing pressures; Page 8 of 65 Table of Contents • our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis; • the timing and extent of our research and development expenses; • the failure to anticipate changing customer product requirements; • disruption in the supply of wafers, assembly or test services; • certain production and other risks associated with using independent manufacturers, assembly houses and testers; and • product obsolescence, price erosion, competitive developments, and other competitive factors. We may face increased risks and uncertainties related to our non-marketable securities. On occasion, we may invest in non-marketable securities of private companies. As of March 31, 2007, the carrying value of our investments in non-marketable securities totaled $3.6 million. Investments in non-marketable securities are inherently risky, and some of these companies are likely to fail. Their success (or lack thereof) is dependent on these companies product development, market acceptance, operational efficiency and other key business success factors. In addition, depending on these companies’ future prospects, they may not be able to raise additional funds when needed or they may receive lower valuations, with less favorable investment terms than in previous financings, and our investments in them would likely become impaired. Shifts in industry-wide capacity and our practice of purchasing our products based on sales forecasts may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results. As a fabless semiconductor developer, we rely on independent foundries and assembly and test houses to manufacture our products. Our reliance on these third parties involves certain risks and uncertainties. For example, shifts in industry-wide capacity from shortages to oversupply, or from oversupply to shortages, may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results. We may order wafers and build inventory in advance of receiving purchase orders. Because our industry is highly cyclical and is subject to significant downturns resulting from excess capacity, overproduction, reduced demand, order cancellations, or technological obsolescence, there is a risk that we will forecast inaccurately and produce excess inventories of particular products. In addition, we generally order our products through non-cancelable purchase orders from third-party foundries based on our sales forecasts, and our customers can generally cancel or reschedule orders they place with us without significant penalties. If we do not receive orders as anticipated by our forecasts, or our customers cancel orders that are placed, we may experience increased inventory levels. Due to the product manufacturing cycle characteristic of IC manufacturing and the inherent imprecision by our customers to accurately forecast their demand, product inventories may not always correspond to product demand, leading to shortages or surpluses of certain products. As a result of such inventory imbalances, future inventory write-downs and charges to gross margin may occur due to lower of cost or market accounting, excess inventory, and inventory obsolescence. Strong competition in the semiconductor market may harm our business. The IC industry is intensely competitive and is frequently characterized by rapid technological change, price erosion and design, technological obsolescence, and a push towards IC component integration. Because of shortened product life cycles and even shorter design-in cycles in a number of the markets that we serve, our competitors have increasingly frequent opportunities to achieve design wins in next-generation systems. In the event that competitors succeed in supplanting our products, our market share may not be sustainable and our net sales, gross margins and operating results would be adversely affected. Additionally, further component integration could eliminate the need for our products. We compete in a number of fragmented markets. Our principal competitors in these markets include AKM, Analog Devices, ATMEL, Austriamicrosystems, Freescale Semiconductor, IDT, Linear Technologies, Maxim, Realtek, Samsung, Sigmatel, Teridian Semiconductor, Texas Instruments/Burr Brown and Wolfson Microelectronics-many of whom have substantially greater financial, engineering, manufacturing, marketing, technical, distribution and other resources, broader product lines, greater intellectual property rights and longer relationships with customers. We also expect intensified competition from emerging companies and from customers who develop their own IC products. In addition, some of our current and future competitors maintain their own fabrication facilities, which could benefit them in connection with cost, capacity and technical issues. Page 9 of 65 Table of Contents Increased competition could adversely affect our business. We cannot assure that we will be able to compete successfully in the future or that competitive pressures will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Competitive pressures could reduce market acceptance of our products and result in price reductions and increases in expenses that could adversely affect our business and our financial condition. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights. Our success depends on our ability to obtain patents and licenses and to preserve our other intellectual property rights covering our products. We seek patent protection for those inventions and technologies for which we believe such protection is suitable and is likely to provide a competitive advantage to us. We also rely substantially on trade secrets, proprietary technology, non-disclosure and other contractual agreements, and technical measures to protect our technology and manufacturing knowledge. We work actively to foster continuing technological innovation to maintain and protect our competitive position. We cannot assure that steps taken by us to protect our intellectual property will be adequate, that our competitors will not independently develop or patent substantially equivalent or superior technologies or be able to design around our patents, or that our intellectual property will not be misappropriated. In addition, the laws of some non-U.S. countries may not protect our intellectual property as well as the laws of the United States. Any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Policing infringement of our technology is difficult, and litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any such litigation could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Potential intellectual property claims and litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages and could invalidate our proprietary rights. The IC industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We may find it necessary to initiate a lawsuit to assert our patent or other intellectual property rights. These legal proceedings could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. We cannot assure that we will ultimately be successful in any lawsuit, nor can we assure that any patent owned by us will not be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. We cannot assure that rights granted under the patent will provide competitive advantages to us, or that any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. As is typical in the IC industry, we and our customers have from time to time received and may in the future receive, communications from third parties asserting patents, mask work rights, or copyrights. In the event third parties were to make a valid intellectual property claim and a license was not available on commercially reasonable terms, our operating results could be harmed. Litigation, which could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our management, technical and financial resources, may also be necessary to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others. An unfavorable outcome in any such suit could have an adverse effect on our future operations and/or liquidity. Our products may be subject to average selling prices that decline over short time periods. If we are unable to increase our volumes, introduce new or enhanced products with higher selling prices or reduce our costs, our business and operating results could be harmed. Historically in the semiconductor industry, average selling prices of products have decreased over time. If the average selling price of any of our products declines and we are unable to increase our unit volumes, introduce new or enhanced products with higher margins and/or reduce manufacturing costs to offset anticipated decreases in the prices of our existing products, our operating results may be adversely affected. In addition, because of procurement lead times, we are limited in our ability to reduce total costs quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. Because of these factors, we may experience material adverse fluctuations in our future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis. We have significant international sales, and risks associated with these sales could harm our operating results. Export sales, principally to Asia, include sales to U.S-based customers with manufacturing plants overseas and accounted for 62 percent, 66 percent, and 67 percent of our net sales in fiscal years 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. We expect export sales to continue to represent a significant portion of product sales. This reliance on international sales subjects us to the risks of conducting business internationally, including political and economic stability and global health conditions, especially in Asia. For example, the financial instability in a given region may have an adverse impact on the Page 10 of 65 Table of Contents financial position of end users in the region, which could affect future orders and harm our results of operations. Our international sales operations involve a number of other risks, including: • unexpected changes in government regulatory requirements; • changes to countries’ banking and credit requirements; • changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; • delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for technology; • tariffs and other barriers and restrictions; • competition with non-U.S. companies or other domestic companies entering the non-U.S. markets in which we operate; • longer sales and payment cycles; • problems in collecting accounts receivable; • political instability; and • the burdens of complying with a variety of non-U.S. laws. In addition, our competitive position may be affected by the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against other currencies. Consequently, increases in the value of the dollar would increase the price in local currencies of our products in non-U.S. markets and make our products relatively more expensive. Alternatively, decreases in the value of the dollar will increase the relative cost of our and our vendors’ operations that are based overseas. We cannot assure that regulatory, political and other factors will not adversely affect our operations in the future or require us to modify our current business practices. Failure to manage our distribution channel relationships could adversely affect our business. The future of our business, as well as the future growth of our business, will depend in part on our ability to manage our relationships with current and future distributors and external sales representatives and to develop additional channels for the distribution and sale of our products. The inability to successfully manage these relationships could adversely affect our business. Our international operations subject our business to additional political and economic risks that could have an adverse impact on our business. In addition to export sales constituting a majority of our net sales, we maintain significant international operations, including design, sales and technical support personnel. We are also using contract manufacturers in Asia for foundry, assembly and test operations. International expansion has required and will continue to require significant management attention and resources. There are risks inherent in expanding our presence into non-U.S. regions, including, but not limited to: • difficulties in staffing and managing non-U.S. operations; • failure of non-U.S. laws to adequately protect our U.S. intellectual property, patent, trademarks, copyrights know-how and other proprietary rights; • global health conditions and potential natural disasters; • political and economic instability in international regions; • international currency controls and exchange rate fluctuations; • additional vulnerability from terrorist groups targeting American interests abroad; and • legal uncertainty regarding liability and compliance with non-U.S. laws and regulatory requirements. If we fail to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to develop, market, or sell our products or successfully manage our business. Competition for personnel in our industry is intense. The number of technology companies in the geographic areas in which we operate is greater than it has been historically and we expect competition for qualified personnel to intensify. There are only a limited number of people in the job market with the requisite skills. Our Human Resources organization Page 11 of 65 Table of Contents focuses significant efforts on attracting and retaining individuals in key technology positions. For example, start-up companies generally offer larger equity grants to attract individuals from more established companies. The loss of the services of key personnel or our inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skills could restrict our ability to develop new products or enhance existing products in a timely manner, sell products to our customers, or manage our business effectively. Because we depend on subcontractors primarily located in Asia to perform key manufacturing functions for us, we are subject to political and economic risks that could disrupt the assembly, packaging, or testing of our products. We depend on third-party subcontractors, primarily in Asia, for the assembly, packaging and testing of our products. International operations and sales may be subject to political and economic risks, including changes in current tax laws, political instability, global health conditions, currency controls, exchange rate fluctuations and changes in import/export regulations, tariff and freight rates, as well as the risks of natural disaster. Although we seek to reduce our dependence on subcontractors, this concentration of subcontractors and manufacturing operations in Asia subjects us to the risks of conducting business internationally, including political and economic conditions in Asia. Disruption or termination of the assembly, packaging or testing of our products could occur and such disruptions could harm our business and operating results. We may acquire other companies or technologies, which may create additional risks associated with our ability to successfully integrate them into our business. We continue to consider future acquisitions of other companies, or their technologies or products, to improve our market position, broaden our technological capabilities and expand our product offerings. However, we may not be able to acquire, or successfully identify, the companies, products or technologies that would enhance our business. In addition, if we are able to acquire companies, products or technologies, we could experience difficulties in integrating them. Integrating acquired businesses involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • the potential disruption of our ongoing business; • unexpected costs or incurring unknown liabilities; • the diversion of management resources from other business concerns while involved in identifying, completing, and integrating acquisitions; • the inability to retain the employees of the acquired businesses; • difficulties relating to integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; • adverse effects on the existing customer relationships of acquired companies; • the potential incompatibility of business cultures; • adverse effects associated with entering into markets and acquiring technologies in areas in which we have little experience; and • acquired intangible assets becoming impaired as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of the acquired company. If we are unable to successfully address any of these risks, our business could be harmed. We may face difficulties integrating and may incur costs associated with our acquisition of Caretta Integrated Circuits, Inc. and any future acquisitions. In fiscal year 2007, we acquired 100 percent of the voting interests in Caretta Integrated Circuits, Inc. (“Caretta”). We could experience difficulties integrating the personnel, products, technologies, and operations of this company. Integrating acquired businesses involves a number of other risks, including, but not limited to: • the potential disruption of our ongoing business; • unexpected costs or incurring unknown liabilities; • the diversion of management’s resources from other business concerns involved in identifying, completing, and integrating acquisitions; • the inability to retain the employees of the acquired businesses; Page 12 of 65 Table of Contents • difficulties relating to integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; • adverse effects on the existing customer relationships of acquired companies; • the potential incompatibility of business cultures; • entering into markets and acquiring technologies in areas in which we have little experience; and • acquired intangible assets becoming impaired as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of the acquired company. If we are unable to successfully address any of these risks, our business could be harmed. Future transactions may limit our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards. As of March 31, 2007, we had U.S. federal tax net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards of approximately $468.4 million. These NOL carryforwards may be used to offset future taxable income and thereby reduce our U.S. federal income taxes otherwise payable. There is a risk we may not be able to generate taxable income in the future in the amount necessary to fully utilize all of these NOLs. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (“the Code”), as amended, imposes an annual limit on the ability of a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” to use its NOL carry forwards to reduce its tax liability. Due in part to potential changes in our shareholder base, we may at some point in the future experience an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Code. Accordingly, our use of the net operating loss carryforwards and credit carryforwards may be limited by the annual limitations described in Sections 382 and 383 of the Code. Despite our efforts to make appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for our stock option grants, the Securities and Exchange Commission may disagree with our reporting or we may discover additional information in the future concerning the appropriate measurement dates. Therefore, a risk exists that we may have to further restate our prior financial statements. We have recorded additional non-cash share-based compensation expense, and related tax effects, with regard to certain past stock option grants, and we have restated certain previously filed financial statements as discussed in Item 7 of this 10-K. While we believe that we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for our stock option grants, the Commission may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported the financial impact or we may discover additional information concerning appropriate measurement dates. Accordingly, we may be required to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the Commission or take other actions not currently contemplated. Our operating results for fiscal year 2006 and prior periods have been materially impacted by the results of the voluntary review of our past stock option granting practices. Any related action by a governmental agency could result in civil or criminal sanctions. Such matters and civil litigation relating to our historical option practices or our restatement of our financial statements could result in significant costs and the diversion of attention of our management and other key employees, which could have an adverse effect on us. On October 26, 2006, we received an informal request for information from the staff of the Fort Worth, Texas regional office of the Commission regarding our historical option granting practices. In addition, we have been contacted by the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York regarding the results of our investigation. We are cooperating with the Commission’s informal investigation, but do not know when or how it will be resolved or what, if any, actions the Commission may require us to take as part of the resolution of that matter. If the Commission disagrees with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported the financial impact of past stock option grants, there could be further delays in filing subsequent Commission reports that could result in delisting of the Company’s common stock from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Moreover, as discussed in Item 7 of this 10-K, we are currently engaged in civil litigation with parties that claim, among other allegations, that certain of our current and former directors and officers improperly dated stock option grants to enhance their own profits on the exercise of such options or for other improper purposes. Although we and the other defendants intend to defend these claims vigorously, there are many uncertainties associated with any litigation, and we cannot assure you that these actions will be resolved without substantial costs and/or settlement charges. We have entered into indemnification agreements with most of our present and former directors and officers. Under those agreements, we may be required to indemnify each such director or officer against losses incurred by such individual in connection with the pending litigation (other than indemnified liabilities arising from willful misconduct, conduct that is knowingly fraudulent or deliberately dishonest, or claims in the form of derivative damages owed to the corporation). We are Page 13 of 65 Table of Contents required, under the indemnification agreements, to advance expenses for the defense of the claims, including attorneys’ fees on a current basis, subject to a claim for reimbursement should the indemnitee be adjudicated ineligible for indemnification. The resolution of the pending informal investigation by the Commission, the defense of our pending civil litigations, our indemnification obligations to current and former directors and officers, and the defense of any additional litigation relating to our past option grant practices or our restatement of our prior financial statements could result in significant costs and diversion of the attention of management. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock fluctuates significantly. This fluctuation is the result of numerous factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • announcements concerning our business or those of our competitors, customers or suppliers; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or our failure to perform as anticipated by the analysts; • announcements regarding technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • announcements by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitment; • announcements by us of significant divestitures or sale of certain assets or intellectual property; • litigation arising out of a wide variety of matters, including, among others, employment matters and intellectual property matters; • departure of key personnel; • single significant shareholders selling for reasons unrelated to the business; • general assumptions made by securities analysts; • general conditions in the IC industry; and • general market conditions and interest rates. We have provisions in our charter, and are subject to certain provisions of Delaware law, which could prevent, delay or impede a change of control of our company. These provisions could affect the market price of our stock. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws, and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if our stockholders support the acquisition. These provisions include: • the inability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent; and • a requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nominations of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting of stockholders. We are also subject to the anti-takeover laws of Delaware that may prevent, delay or impede a third party from acquiring or merging with us, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 