Item 1A. Risk factors. Our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, including but not limited to those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results. For a discussion of other matters which may affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, see the further discussions in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our 2011 Annual Report. We depend on revenues from a small number of significant customers. Any loss, cancellation, reduction or delay in purchases by these customers could harm our business. Our largest customer accounted for 34% of our sales during fiscal 2011. Our success will depend on our continued ability to develop and manage relationships with this and other significant customers. Some of our customers could in the future shift some or all of their purchases from us to our competitors, or to other sources, or bring such business in-house. The loss of one or more of our largest customers, a significant reduction or delay in sales to one or more of these customers, an inability to successfully develop relationships with new customers, or future price concessions we could make to retain customers could significantly reduce our sales and profitability. Our financial performance is dependent on the conditions of the aerospace industry. Sales to our aerospace customers, which generated 79% of our total sales in 2011, are directly tied to the economic conditions in the commercial aviation and defense industries. The aviation industry is cyclical, and capital spending by airlines and aircraft manufacturers may be influenced by a wide variety of factors including current and predicted traffic levels, load factors, aircraft fuel pricing, labor issues, competition, the retirement of older aircraft, regulatory changes, terrorism and related safety concerns, 6 general economic conditions, worldwide airline profits and backlog levels. Also, since a significant portion of the backlog for commercial customers is scheduled for delivery beyond 2012, changes in economic conditions may cause customers to request that firm orders be rescheduled or canceled. A reduction in capital spending in the aviation or defense industries could have a significant effect on the sales of our EDAC Aero and Apex Machine Tool product lines, which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance or results of operations. Additionally, during a downturn in the cyclical aviation industry, there is substantial pressure on suppliers like us from original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) in the aerospace industry to reduce prices on new orders. We attempt to manage such downward pricing pressure, while trying to preserve our business relationships with our customers, by seeking to reduce our production costs through various measures, including purchasing raw materials and components at lower prices and implementing cost reduction strategies. If we were unable to offset OEM price reductions, our profitability and cash flows could be adversely affected. Further, the consolidation and combination of defense or other manufacturers may eliminate customers from the industry and/or put downward pricing pressures on sales of component parts. For example, the consolidation that has occurred in the defense industry in recent years has significantly reduced the overall number of defense contractors in the industry. In addition, if one of our customers is acquired or merged with another entity, the new entity may discontinue using us as a supplier because of an existing business relationship of the acquiring company or because it may be more efficient to consolidate certain suppliers within the newly formed enterprise. The significance of the impact that such consolidation may have on our business is difficult to predict because we do not know when or if one or more of our customers will engage in merger or acquisition activity. However, if such activity involved our material customers it could materially impact our revenues and profitability. The aerospace industry is highly competitive, and this competition could reduce our profitability or limit our ability to grow. The aerospace industry is highly competitive. We compete with many U.S. and non-U.S. companies as well as the in-house manufacturing and service capabilities of large manufacturers, some of which may benefit from lower labor costs than ours. We compete primarily based on product qualifications, service and price. Certain competitors are larger than we are or are subsidiaries of larger entities and may be better able to manage costs than us or may have greater financial resources than we have. Due to the competitiveness in the aerospace industry, we may not be able to increase prices for our products to cover increases in our costs, or we may face pressure to reduce prices, which could materially reduce our revenues, gross margin and profitability. Competitive factors, including changes in market penetration, increased price competition and the introduction of new products and technology by existing and new competitors could result in a material reduction in our revenues and profitability. We may not realize all of the sales expected from our existing EDAC Aero backlog. There is an ongoing risk that aerospace orders may be cancelled or rescheduled due to fluctuations in our customers’ business needs and market conditions. We consider backlog to be firm customer orders for future delivery. Certain of our customers have the right to terminate, reduce or defer firm orders that we have in backlog. If a customer terminates or reduces firm orders, we are able to invoice for work performed, but our future sales would be adversely affected. 7 Also, the realization of sales from new and existing programs of all of our customers is inherently subject to a number of important risks and uncertainties, including whether our customers will execute the launch of product programs on time, or at all, and the number of units that our customers will actually produce. We maintain a frozen defined benefit pension plan. Declines in the stock market and prevailing interest rates could cause an increase in our pension benefit expenses in the future and result in reductions in our pension fund asset values and increases in our pension benefit obligations. These changes could cause a reduction in our net worth and may require us to make higher cash contributions to our pension plan in the future. Any product liability claims in excess of insurance could adversely affect our financial condition. There are potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and sale of certain of our products. While we believe that our liability insurance is adequate to protect us from these liabilities, our insurance may not cover all liabilities. Any material liability not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We depend heavily on our senior management and other key personnel, the loss of whom could materially affect our financial performance and prospects. Our business is managed by a small number of key executive officers, including Dominick A. Pagano and Glenn L. Purple. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to keep the services of these executives and to hire other highly qualified employees at all levels. We compete with other potential employers for employees, and we may not be successful in hiring and retaining executives and other skilled employees that we need. Our ability to successfully execute our business strategy, market and develop our products and serve our customers could be adversely affected by a shortage of available skilled employees or executives. We face costs and risks associated with maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) requires our management to include in our annual reports on Form 10-K, their report on the operating effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting. The process of maintaining and evaluating the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting requires us to incur expense and to devote resources on an on-going basis. In the event that our management determines that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of confidence among our current and potential shareholders and customers in our financial reporting and disclosure, which could adversely affect our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 