Item 1A. Risk Factors DISK DRIVE COMPONENTS DIVISION Our sales are concentrated in a small customer base. Although we supply nearly all domestic and foreign-based manufacturers of disk drives and head-gimbal assemblers, sales to our five largest customers constituted 99%, 99% and 89% of net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Over the years, the disk drive industry has experienced numerous consolidations. In May 2009 for example, the European Commission authorized the acquisition of the hard disk drive business of Fujitsu Limited of Japan by Toshiba Corporation. In 2007, TDK Corporation acquired the recording head business of our customer Alps Electric Co., Ltd. and approximately 90% 10 of MPT’s outstanding common shares. This gives our customer SAE Magnetics, Ltd./TDK Corporation the ability to produce suspension assemblies. These consolidations, together with companies exiting the disk drive industry, result in fewer, but larger, customers for our products. The failure by any one of our customers to pay its account balance with us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The following factors could adversely impact our market share: • change in supply chain alignment by a customer, as in 2008 and 2007 when we experienced market share loss for our suspensions used in desktop disk drives; • loss of one or more of our major customers as in 2009 when our customer Seagate notified us it intends to significantly reduce its procurement of suspension assemblies from us; • development by any one customer to have the capability to produce suspension assemblies in high volume for its own products; • loss of market share by one of our major customers; and • change in the type of suspension assembly or flexures used in suspension assemblies, such as our TSA+ flexure, used by a customer. Any reduction in our market share could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Almost all of our sales depend on the disk drive industry, which is cyclical, subject to ongoing technological innovation and subject to intense price competition. Sales of suspension assemblies and suspension assembly components accounted for 99% of our net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007. The disk drive industry is intensely competitive and technology changes rapidly, such as during past industry transitions to smaller disks or higher density read/write heads. The industry’s demand for disk drive components also fluctuates. The disk drive industry experiences periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction. These cycles may affect suppliers to this industry because we believe that it is a common practice for disk drive manufacturers to place orders for disk drive components in excess of their needs during growth periods, and sharply reduce orders for these components during periods of contraction. In addition, there is continuous downward price pressure on disk drive manufacturers and their suppliers. If price reductions exceed our ability to reduce costs, our operating results could be negatively affected. Industry transitions in head technology and data density improvements impact demand for suspension assemblies. During past industry transitions production yields of head and disk drive manufacturers initially were reduced. Because a significant portion of head yield reduction occurs after the head is bonded onto the suspension assembly, low yields at our customers often result in increased demand for suspension assemblies. When our customers improve their production yields, overall demand for our products may be negatively impacted. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if a reduction in the industry’s component demand continues long-term or a future significant slowdown in the industry occurs. A slowdown in demand for computer systems and consumer electronics may cause a decline in demand for suspension assemblies. Our suspension assemblies are components in computers and a variety of consumer electronics products. The demand for these products can be volatile. In a weak economy, consumer spending tends to decline and retail demand for computers and other consumer electronics tends to decrease, as does business demand for computer systems. Demand for suspension assemblies therefore may be adversely impacted as a result of a weaker economy. During 2009, demand for suspension assemblies weakened significantly. As a result, our shipments of suspension assemblies declined 30% from 2008. In addition, in the past, unexpected slowdowns in demand for computer systems and consumer electronics have caused sharp declines in demand for suspension assemblies, resulting in periods during which the supply of suspension assemblies exceeded demand. If in the future an unexpected slowdown in demand for suspension assemblies occurs or if demand decreases as a result of a weakening economy, our results of operations will be materially adversely affected as a result of lower revenue and gross profits. 11 We may not be able to manufacture our products efficiently due to changes in product mix or technology, or other unforeseen events. We manufacture a wide variety of suspension assemblies with different selling prices and manufacturing costs. Disk drive makers continue to expand their product lines to include drives offering performance characteristics optimized for specific applications, which has resulted in a proliferation of individual disk drive programs. We cannot produce certain low-volume disk drive programs as efficiently as we produce high-volume programs. Our product mix varies as market demand changes. Any substantial variation in product mix can lead to changes in utilization of our equipment and tooling, inventory obsolescence and overstaffing in certain areas, all of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Manufacturing yields, efficiencies and processing operations vary from product to product. Newer products often require new or additional manufacturing process steps and typically have lower initial manufacturing yields and efficiencies as we ramp up manufacturing. As a result, new products are frequently more expensive to produce and may not be profitable. We are using new manufacturing processes to produce TSA+ suspension assemblies, which have caused us to experience inefficiencies and lower yields in 2008 and 2009 that will continue until we achieve the further improvements in process efficiencies expected in the next year. We have experienced missed shipments and increased sales returns in the past as we ramp up manufacturing of new products, or as new features for our products are introduced, or as new manufacturing processes are implemented. We also may in the future experience missed shipments or increased sales returns. In addition, we may be required to reimburse customers for product costs relating to the incorporation of defective suspension assemblies into our customers’ products. We may not attain our output goals and be profitable with regard to any of our suspension assembly products. We may need to transfer production of certain suspension assemblies from one manufacturing site to another. In the past, such transfers have lowered initial yields and/or manufacturing efficiencies. This results in higher manufacturing costs. Our manufacturing plants are located in Minnesota and Wisconsin, each of which can experience severe weather. Severe weather has, at times, resulted in lower production and decreased our shipments. Our ability to conduct business would be impaired if our workforce were to be unionized or if a significant number of our specialized employees were to leave and we could not replace them with comparable personnel. The locations of our plants and the broad span and technological complexity of our products and processes may limit the number of satisfactory engineering and other candidates for key positions. Our business may be adversely affected if we need to adjust the size of our workforce due to fluctuating demand. During 2009, we reduced our workforce from 4,591 at the end of 2008 to 2,448 at the end of 2009. These recent workforce reductions may impact our ability to recruit and retain employees, and we are uncertain if we will be able to adequately staff our operations if we need to increase our manufacturing capacity in the future. We may be unable to achieve our financial and strategic goals in connection with investments in new manufacturing locations. We are currently establishing an assembly operation in Thailand to manufacture our disk drive products. We may have significant unanticipated additional costs from constructing and initiating production at our new location, difficulty attracting or retaining key technical and managerial personnel for our new location, or difficulty integrating our new location operations into our existing operations. The creation and ongoing management of assembly operations in Thailand may divert management’s attention and resources from business issues related to our existing locations. We also may fail to identify significant issues in connection with our new location, such as issues related to its workforce, quality or reporting systems, local tax, legal and financial controls or contingencies. Additionally our operations in Thailand may be subject to various political, economic and other risks and uncertainties inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. Our inability to manage these risks as part of our investment in a new manufacturing location could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 We may not be able to utilize our capacity efficiently or accurately plan our capacity requirements, which may negatively affect our operating results. We increase our production capacity and the overhead that supports production based on anticipated market demand. Market demand, however, has not always developed as expected or remained at a consistent level. The underutilization that can result decreases our profitability. For example, in 2007 and 2008, market demand for our suspension assemblies was below our expectations primarily due to our loss of market share in the mature desktop segment of the disk drive market. This resulted in underutilization of our manufacturing capacity. As a result, our profitability also was below our expectations. A deterioration of our business could result in further underutilization of our manufacturing capacity and we may need to impair certain assets in the future. In 2009, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $71,809,000 for the impairment of long-lived assets related to manufacturing equipment in our Disk Drive Components Division’s assembly and component operations. This impairment included the closure of our Sioux Falls, South Dakota facility at the end of June 2009. The following factors complicate accurate capacity planning for market demand: • changes in the demand for and mix of specific products our customers buy and the features they require; • our ability to add and train staff to operate our production equipment in advance of demand; • the market’s pace of technological change; • variability in our manufacturing yields and productivity; and • long lead times for most of our plant and equipment expenditures, requiring major financial commitments well in advance of actual production requirements. Our inability to plan our capacity requirements accurately and efficiently utilize our production capacity, or our failure to put in place the technologies and capacity necessary to meet market demand, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our investment in developing new process capabilities to produce suspension assemblies could result in significant increases in our operating expenses and may result in a product that is not acceptable to our customers. Rapid technological change in the disk drive industry, as well as the expanding use of disk drives in a growing range of consumer electronics applications, has led to numerous suspension assembly design changes and tighter performance specifications. To maintain our position in the disk drive industry, we need to develop new process capabilities to achieve the ever increasing performance requirements of our customers. Also, if processes change, we may need to replace, modify or design, build and install equipment. These changes may require additional capital expenditures and increased development and support expenses, which may adversely impact our operating results. We expect to continue to have significant research and development expenses for the following new products: • suspension assemblies that incorporate flexures produced using additive processing; • suspension assemblies with tighter performance specifications than our customers currently require; • suspension assemblies that require additional or smaller electrical conductors; • suspension assemblies that incorporate new materials, such as thinner laminates, which are more difficult to handle in the manufacturing process; and • suspension assemblies for use with smaller read/write heads. We have invested, and continue to invest, a substantial amount of engineering and manufacturing resources to develop process capabilities, as needed, including additive processing to produce suspension assembly flexures, to meet the ever increasing performance requirements of our customers. If high-volume manufacturing of our TSA+ suspension assemblies that are produced using additive processing capabilities cannot be produced profitably in the quantities and to the specifications required by our customers, we may need to purchase increased quantities of additive flexures. We may not be able to purchase the necessary quantity of such components on terms acceptable to us or at all. The introduction of new process capabilities for our products increases the likelihood of unexpected quality concerns, which may negatively impact our ability to bring products to market on time and at acceptable costs. Further, most of our current competitors use 13 components produced through additive processing for volume production of suspension assemblies, which may give them an advantage in developing and qualifying new products with our customers. Since we started high-volume manufacturing of TSA+ suspension assemblies, we have experienced higher cost due to yield loss, production inefficiencies and equipment problems. For 2009, these TSA+ costs reduced gross profit by $32,000,000, and in 2008 these TSA+ costs reduced gross profit by $37,600,000. These higher costs will continue until we achieve increased demand and further improvements in process efficiencies that are expected in the next year. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations. Our past operating results, and our gross profits, have fluctuated from fiscal period to period. We expect our future operating results and gross profits will continue to fluctuate from fiscal period to period. The following factors may cause these fluctuations: • changes in overall demand for our products; • changes in utilization of existing or newly added production capacity; • changes in our manufacturing yields and related scrap recovery; • changes in our production efficiency; • increased costs when we start producing new products and features, and ramping up high-volume production; • changes in the specific products our customers buy and features they require; • changes in our selling prices; • changes in our manufacturing process, or problems related to our manufacturing process; • changes in our infrastructure costs and expected production and shipping costs, and how we control them; • long disruptions in operations at any of our plants or our customers’ plants for any reason; • changes in the cost of, or limits on, available materials and labor; and • changes in fuel costs. Gross profit in 2009 was 2%, down from 14% in 2008, primarily due to the substantial decline in our net sales, which reduced our ability to cover our fixed costs, the cost burden associated with TSA+ flexure production and our excess capacity. For 2009, our TSA+ costs reduced gross profit by $32,000,000, down from a cost burden of $37,600,000 in 2008. These higher costs will continue until we achieve increased demand and further improvements in process efficiencies that are expected in the next year. A deterioration of our business could result in further underutilization of our manufacturing capacity and we may need to impair certain assets in the future. In 2009, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $71,809,000 for the impairment of long-lived assets related to manufacturing equipment in our Disk Drive Components Division’s assembly and component operations. This impairment included the closure of our Sioux Falls, South Dakota facility at the end of June 2009. If customer demand for suspension assemblies weakens, or if one or more customers reduce, delay or cancel orders, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, we may incur restructuring and asset impairment charges that would reduce our earnings. We typically allow customers to change or cancel orders on short notice. We plan our production and inventory based primarily on forecasts of customer demand, including forecasts of customer pulls of product out of our VMI facilities. Our customers often prefer a dual source supply and, therefore, may allocate their demand among suppliers. Both customer demand and the resulting forecasts often fluctuate substantially. These factors, among others, create an environment where scheduled production and capacity utilization can vary, leading to variability in gross profits and difficulty in estimating our position in the marketplace. Our selling prices are subject to market pressure from our competitors and pricing pressure from our customers. Our selling prices also are affected by changes in overall demand for our products, changes in the specific products our customers buy and a product’s life cycle. A typical life cycle for our products begins with higher pricing when products are introduced and decreasing prices as they mature. To offset price decreases during a product’s life, we rely primarily on higher sales volume and improving our manufacturing yields and efficiencies to reduce our cost. Disk drive manufacturers seek low cost designs and suspension assembly pricing is highly competitive. If we cannot reduce our manufacturing costs as prices decline during our products’ life cycles, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 14 Demand for our suspension assemblies will decline if we are unable to qualify our products in disk drive programs. We must qualify our products with our customers. The qualification process for disk drive products can be complex and difficult. We cannot be sure that our suspension assemblies will continue to be selected for design into our customers’ products. If we are unable to obtain additional customer qualifications, or if we cannot qualify our products for high-volume production quantities, or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If the rate of data density improves at a significantly faster rate than the rate of increase in the demand for disk drive storage, demand for suspension assemblies may decrease. Disk drive manufacturers have been able to steadily increase data density, and we believe that they will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. Increasing data density permits drive manufacturers to reduce the average number of disks in each disk drive, which in turn reduces the number of components they need per drive, including suspension assemblies. The average number of suspension assemblies required per disk drive has been fairly stable from calendar 2005 to 2009 at 2.8. We estimate that the number of suspensions required per disk drive will remain relatively stable in calendar 2010. If improvements in data density outpace growth in data storage capacity requirements, demand for our suspension assemblies may decline and we may not be able to maintain or expand our suspension assembly business. Competing process capabilities may reduce demand for our products. We have historically held a market leadership position through innovation and technological advancement that has enabled our customers to deploy higher disk drive capacities at lower total costs. However, with the slowing of the areal density growth rate, the amount of technical innovation required to produce suspension assemblies also has decreased which has enabled our competitors to gain market share. If we can no longer differentiate our product features or process capabilities, competing suppliers may have access to a greater percentage of disk drive programs and program share. This inability to differentiate could be caused through our misunderstanding of market requirements, including technology changes, which could enable a competitor to take market share. The inability to differentiate our product offerings could also allow for supply chain alignments between our customers and other suppliers that could limit our access to available disk drive programs and corresponding market share. These alignments could include share agreements, sole-sourcing conditions or primary access to development programs. Any of the above scenarios could adversely impact our shipment volumes, average selling prices and operational costs. If our customers improve their manufacturing yields, demand for our suspension assemblies may decrease. In the past, we believe that improvements in our sales and unit volumes have occasionally been due in part to manufacturing difficulties experienced by our customers as they transitioned to higher density read/write heads. These customers experienced higher levels of defective read/write heads, which they were unable to detect until after they had attached the read/write heads to our suspension assemblies and our customers required more suspension assemblies during those periods. If our customers’ production yields continue to improve in the future, or if they succeed in their process development efforts and can separate and re-use suspension assemblies or test the read/write head before attaching suspension assemblies, overall suspension assembly shipments could decline and our operating results could be negatively affected. Competing storage technology or reductions in demand for storage capacity may reduce demand for our products. Other types of data storage technology, such as solid state storage or flash (semiconductor) memory, may become competitive with certain disk drive applications, and thereby could affect the demand for our products. Higher capacity storage needs typically have been better served by disk drives than by solid state storage such as flash memory, as disk drive manufacturers can offer more competitive cost per unit of capacity, while lower capacity needs increasingly are being met by flash memory technology. If flash memory suppliers overcome both the technical and economic limitations of flash memory storage and can offer better performance or more competitive cost per unit of capacity than disk drive products, demand for disk drives, and thus for our products, may decrease. Though consumer applications for flash storage also increase the need 15 for back-up disk drives, mobile applications using flash memory storage also may displace the need for disk drive storage back-up. Additionally, consumers’ demand for storage capacity may not continue to grow as expected as a result of how consumers store data such as the emergence of processes such as cloud computing and storage virtualization. These factors, among others, could lead to lower capacity hard drives or solid state storage memory which could reduce demand for disk drive components including our suspension assemblies. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if the computer industry adopts technology that reduces or replaces disk drives as a computer data storage medium. We may have difficulty obtaining an adequate supply of raw materials that meet our strict specifications at reasonable prices. Certain types of stainless steel, polyimide and photoresists are currently single-sourced because the raw materials provided by these sources meet our strict specifications. We have chosen to obtain certain other materials, such as laminate constructed from raw material that contains stainless steel, polyimide and copper, from a single or limited set of sources because of quality and pricing considerations. If we were not able to obtain an adequate supply of these materials from our current suppliers or if a current supplier were to exit the market, we could experience production delays and quality problems. Similarly, we obtain certain customized equipment and related repair parts from single sources because of the specialization of the equipment and the quality of these supply sources. In light of current uncertain market and economic conditions and the effect they may have on our suppliers, we are considering options that may reduce our risk of supply disruption. The price we pay for stainless steel and laminate periodically is reset and can fluctuate with changes in the value of the Japanese yen, which will impact our costs. The price we pay for gold and other precious metals has fluctuated in the past. We have also experienced increased expenses due to higher fuel costs related to freight and higher utility rates. During times of increased prices, we typically do not pass this higher price on to our customers. If we could not obtain the materials referred to above in the necessary quantities, with the necessary quality and at reasonable prices, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. BIOMEASUREMENT DIVISION We do not know when, if ever, our BioMeasurement Division will be profitable. We have a limited operating history in the medical device market. Our first-generation device was used primarily for research, and our second-generation product, the InSpectra StO2 System, was introduced to the trauma market late in calendar 2006. We do not know how many systems we will be able to sell, the sales breakdown between monitors and sensors, the profits we can expect or the amount of revenue that the product will generate. We do not have another medical device product for sale, so all of the division’s revenue is currently derived from sales of the InSpectra StO2 System. We will continue to spend significant amounts of money on medical device sales and marketing and research and development, which will limit the division’s profitability. We do not know if we will ever generate enough revenue from medical device sales to offset our expenditures on the division. We do not know whether our only medical product, the InSpectra StO2 System, will achieve market acceptance. Our marketing strategy must overcome the difficulties inherent in the introduction of new products to the medical community. Clinicians will not use the InSpectra StO2 System unless they conclude, based on clinical data and personal evaluation experience, that StO2 gives them information that is valuable when making treatment decisions. If clinicians continue to rely on other methods when assessing the status of patients experiencing hemorrhagic and other types of shock, we will not be successful in selling the InSpectra StO2 System. The development of new medical technology to assess StO2 may render our product obsolete or uneconomical. Additionally, clinicians must be trained to use our InSpectra StO2 System effectively. Convincing clinicians to dedicate the time and energy necessary for adequate training in the use of our device is challenging, and we do not know whether we will be successful in these efforts. If the InSpectra StO2 System is not widely accepted by clinicians, is accepted more slowly than expected or is supplanted by superior technology, our ability to increase our sales may be materially adversely impacted. 16 We currently have limited experience as a company selling, marketing or distributing medical devices, which could impede the BioMeasurement Division’s ability to achieve profitability. We have limited experience as a company in the marketing, sale and distribution of medical devices. We are marketing the InSpectra StO2 System through a direct sales force and have expanded our selling efforts through the use of distributors. Developing a direct sales force and distribution network is expensive and time consuming. Additionally, any direct sales force and distribution network that we develop will be competing against the experienced sales organizations used by other manufacturers of medical devices. We may not be able to develop this capability on a timely basis or at all. We face significant challenges and risks in establishing a direct sales force and distribution network and marketing our device, including our ability to recruit, train and retain adequate numbers of qualified sales, clinical field specialist and marketing personnel; our ability to establish distributor relationships on terms acceptable to us, or at all; the ability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of hospitals and trauma centers to purchase our device or clinicians to use our device; costs associated with hiring, maintaining and expanding a sales and marketing team; and government scrutiny associated with promotional activities in the health-care industry. We also may face difficulties collecting accounts receivable balances, especially from purchasers in countries other than the United States. If we are unable to establish and maintain a direct sales, marketing and distribution network, our BioMeasurement Division may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to become profitable, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The long sales cycle for the InSpectra StO2 System will defer the generation of revenue by our BioMeasurement Division. We believe that the InSpectra StO2 System has a long sales cycle because it involves the introduction of and education about a new measurement to potential customers. The period between initial discussions with a potential customer and a sale of even a single device to that customer often takes between six and twelve months, depending on the potential customer’s budget and capital approval process. In addition, in a weak economy, as in 2009, capital spending tends to decrease, which may further delay the purchase of our products. Training of clinicians also may take a number of weeks after a customer decides to purchase the InSpectra StO2 System. Reliance by our potential customers on third-party payors, including government programs and private health insurance plans, to reimburse some or all of the cost of patient care, and cost containment measures that health-care providers and third-party payors are instituting, both in the United States and internationally, also could harm our ability to sell our product. These factors have created a significant lag in our ability to generate revenue and may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results going forward, particularly during periods in which our sales volume is relatively low. We market the device by offering customers an evaluation followed by a direct sale, sensor purchase program or monitor rental period. The sensor purchase program or monitor rental sales methods will further delay the generation of significant revenue. We may not be able to develop new applications for our product or expand our medical device product line successfully. All of our BioMeasurement Division’s revenue has come through sales of the InSpectra StO2 Tissue Oxygenation Monitor and the InSpectra StO2 Sensor. As a result, our initial success depends on the success of the InSpectra StO2 System. If we are unable to widely commercialize the use of this system through our marketing initiatives, our BioMeasurement Division will not be profitable. We are conducting research on other applications for the InSpectra StO2 System and our near infrared spectroscopy technology. The development of additional applications will require significant commitments of personnel and financial resources and we cannot be sure that they will be successful. Further, we cannot be sure that any new medical applications or medical devices we develop will receive regulatory approval or market acceptance. If the attempted extensions of our product offerings or new products are not commercially successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We have limited experience in manufacturing and assembling the InSpectra StO2 System, and we may encounter problems at our manufacturing facility or otherwise experience manufacturing delays or warranty claims that could result in lost revenue. We have limited experience in manufacturing, assembling or testing medical devices on a commercial scale. In order to produce our InSpectra StO2 System in quantities sufficient to meet our anticipated market demand, we will need to increase 17 our manufacturing capacity by a significant factor over the current level. There are technical challenges to increasing manufacturing capacity, including equipment design and automation, material procurement, problems with production yields and quality control and assurance. Developing commercial scale manufacturing facilities for our BioMeasurement Division will require the investment of substantial funds and the hiring and retaining of additional management and technical personnel who have the necessary manufacturing expertise. We may not successfully complete the required increase in manufacturing capacity on a timely basis or at all. In addition, all of our manufacturing of the InSpectra StO2 System is conducted at our facilities in Hutchinson, Minnesota. We could encounter problems at these facilities, which could delay or prevent us from maintaining our manufacturing capabilities. Further, if our manufacturing quality control is not adequate, we may experience unanticipated product returns or warranty claims resulting in unforeseen expenses. We may be unable to meet the expected demand for our InSpectra StO2 System, maintain control over our expenses or quality or otherwise adapt to anticipated growth. If we are unable to satisfy demand for our InSpectra StO2 System, market acceptance of our products and our ability to generate revenue could be materially adversely affected. We may fail to comply with manufacturing regulations, or be subject to product recalls, which could hurt our ability to sell and distribute our device and could subject us to fines, injunctions and penalties. Our manufacturing process must comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging and shipping of our device. The FDA enforces its QSR through inspections. We may not pass an inspection, resulting in a shut-down of our manufacturing operations, a recall of our device or the imposition of other sanctions, which could harm our revenues and profitability. In addition, the FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries in which our device may be sold may request and, in some cases, require the recall of our device in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. Further, our key component suppliers may fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements. Any failure to comply with the QSR by us, any failure by our suppliers or distributors to comply with regulatory requirements applicable to them or any product recall could harm product sales and may subject us to fines, injunctions and penalties and damage our business. We face the risk of product liability claims if the InSpectra StO2 System fails to perform, and we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. The business of our BioMeasurement Division exposes us to the risk of product liability claims inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical devices. Defects in the monitor or other performance problems in the system could result in the system’s failure to monitor tissue oxygenation accurately, which would subject us to product liability claims, and we may be subject to claims even if a medical failure is due to the actions of medical personnel using our product. Although we have product liability and clinical trial liability insurance that we believe is appropriate, this insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations. Our current product liability insurance may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, or may not be adequate to cover any successful product liability claims. A product liability claim, recall or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These liabilities also could prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts. Defending a product liability claim, regardless of merit, could be costly, could divert management’s attention from our business and might result in adverse publicity, which could adversely impact our business and financial performance. Healthcare reform legislation could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition. Rising healthcare costs and interest in universal healthcare coverage in the United States have resulted in government and private sector initiatives proposing healthcare reforms. Recently, President Obama and members of Congress have proposed significant reforms to the United States healthcare system. Members of Congress have proposed a single-payer healthcare system, a government health insurance option to compete with private plans and other expanded public healthcare measures. Congressional leadership also has proposed an excise tax on medical devices. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. We cannot predict what healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on us. However, an expansion in government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition, and the excise tax, if passed, could adversely affect our results of operations. 18 GENERAL We may not be able to generate enough cash or secure enough capital to service our existing debt obligations or execute our current and future business plans. In the first half of 2009, we experienced significant reductions in demand for and shipments of our suspension assemblies due primarily to lower demand for disk drives, lower disk drive production as the drive makers reduced inventories and a loss of market share. Our operating results have been adversely affected by this decrease in demand. In addition, we announced in April 2009 that Seagate, which represented approximately 18% of our overall net sales for the third quarter of 2009, notified us that it intends to significantly reduce its procurement of suspension assemblies from us. Accordingly, our shipments to Seagate were approximately 10% of our overall net sales for the fourth quarter of 2009. We expect that the change in this major customer’s procurement plan has reduced our overall market share and may impact our ability to generate cash. Our manufacturing capacity also may be underutilized in the future, which would negatively impact our operating results. In addition to reductions in demand, we have and will continue to invest substantial amounts in our BioMeasurement Division and in TSA+ flexure volume production. While we expect the financial burden of these investments to decrease, they will likely have a negative impact on our operating results at least through 2010. We continue to have significant liquidity needs, including repayment of $45,554,000 par value of our 2.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2010 (the “2.25% Notes”) currently outstanding, which mature in March 2010. Furthermore, we have significant debt obligations beyond 2010. Holders of $197,500,000 par value of our 3.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2026 (the “3.25% Notes”) currently outstanding may require us to purchase all or a portion of their 3.25% Notes for cash as early as January 15, 2013. Our unfavorable operating results in 2009 led to uncertainty regarding our ability to satisfy the covenants in our credit facility, which we therefore terminated in the third quarter of 2009. We will continue to spend significant amounts of money on medical device sales and marketing and research and development in our BioMeasurement Division, which will limit the division’s profitability. In 2009, our BioMeasurement Division incurred an operating loss of $23,485,000, and we expect it to continue to incur losses for 2010. These losses, along with growing working capital needs as the business grows, will negatively affect our ability to generate cash. Although we believe that we will be able to meet the current portion of our debt obligations and execute our current business plan, there can be no assurance that we will have access to additional financing, if and when needed in the future. If cash flow from operations together with cash and cash equivalents are not sufficient to fund operations, capital expenditures and debt obligations, and we are unable to secure alternative sources of financing, our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity would be materially adversely affected. Current and future disruptions in the global credit and financial markets could limit our access to credit, which could negatively impact our business. Domestic and foreign credit and financial markets have experienced extreme disruption in the past year, including volatility in security prices, diminished liquidity and credit availability, declining valuations of certain investments and significant changes in the capital and organizational structures of certain financial institutions. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in the credit and financial markets or of any related adverse economic conditions. Given these conditions, we may not be able to secure additional financing for future activities on satisfactory terms, or at all, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, we terminated our credit facility in the third quarter of 2009. Deterioration in our business or further disruptions in the global credit and financial markets could result in further reductions in our access to credit, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Current and future disruptions in the global credit and financial markets also could adversely affect our customers and suppliers. Our customers and their customers may experience difficulty obtaining financing for significant purchases and 19 operations. A resulting decrease in orders could decrease the overall demand for our products. It is also possible that our customers could demand adjustments in pricing terms or postpone or cancel existing orders as a result of limited credit availability. Furthermore, we maintain significant balances due from customers and limitations on the credit available to our customers could impair our ability to collect those receivables on a timely basis. If our suppliers, of either raw materials or equipment, experience similar credit restrictions, they may become unable to meet our ongoing supply demands or tighten the terms of our purchases. Disruptions in the global credit markets that adversely affect our customers and suppliers could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We will need a significant amount of funds over the next several years to achieve our long-term growth objectives and to meet our debt obligations. Our business will require significant funds over the next several years. We would likely use these funds for capital expenditures, research and development, debt service and working capital. Our Disk Drive Components Division is highly capital intensive. Our total capital expenditures for both of our divisions were $20,609,000 in 2009, $65,603,000 in 2008 and $102,239,000 in 2007. We currently anticipate spending $35,000,000 on capital expenditures during 2010. In addition, our total research and development expenses for both of our divisions were approximately $26,776,000 or 7% of net sales in 2009. Our 2009 Disk Drive Components Division capital expenditures and research and development expenses were primarily for tooling and manufacturing equipment for new process technology and capability improvements. With the restructuring actions we took in 2009, we believe we have positioned our business to accommodate both possible instability in suspension assembly demand, and the resumption in year-over-year demand growth that we expect. Our capital expenditures for the Disk Drive Components Division are planned based on process improvements to be incorporated in our manufacturing operations and the rate at which our customers adopt new generations of higher performance disk drives and next-generation read/write technology and head sizes, which may require new or improved process technologies, such as additive processing to produce flexures for our TSA+ suspensions, anticipated customer demand for our suspension assembly products and market demand for disk drives. We are also establishing a Thailand suspension assembly manufacturing site for our Disk Drive Components Division. Capital spending is also based on our ability to fund capital expenditures, as needed, with cash generated from operations, our current cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments or additional financing, if available given current capital market conditions. We manage our capital spending to reflect the capacity that we expect will be needed to meet disk drive industry customer forecasts. However, existing work in process with vendors and lengthy lead times sometimes prevent us from adjusting our capital expenditures to match near-term demand. This can result in underutilization of capacity, which could lower gross profit. As of September 27, 2009, we had outstanding $197,500,000 par value of our 3.25% Notes and $45,554,000 par value of our 2.25% Notes. Our 2.25% Notes mature in 2010 and holders of our 3.25% Notes may require us to purchase all or a portion of their 3.25% Notes for cash as early as January 15, 2013. We may pursue additional debt or equity financing or other forms of financing to supplement our current capital resources, if needed, in 2010 and beyond. Our ability to obtain additional financing will depend upon a number of factors, including our future performance and financial results and general economic and capital market conditions. We may not be able to maintain adequate capital or raise additional capital on reasonable terms or at all, if needed. The following factors could affect our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all: • our results of operations; • general economic and capital market conditions and conditions in the disk drive industry; • the perception in the capital markets of our business; • our ratio of debt to equity; • our financial condition; • our business prospects; and • changes in interest rates. 20 Our ability to execute our long-term strategy may depend on our ability to obtain additional long-term debt and equity capital. We have no commitments for additional borrowings or for sales of equity, other than under our existing employee benefit plans. We cannot determine the precise amount and timing of our funding needs at this time. We may be unable to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. We also may need to refinance our indebtedness at maturity. We may not be able to obtain additional capital on favorable terms to refinance our indebtedness. An inability to refinance our indebtedness, if needed, could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Due to recent uncertainties in the global credit and financial markets, we may be unable to liquidate holdings of our auction rate securities, and our estimates of the fair value of these securities could differ substantially from the actual amount we would collect upon liquidation. In 2009, most of the auction rate securities (“ARS”) auctions in the marketplace have continued to “fail,” including auctions for all of the ARS we hold, meaning that there was not enough demand to sell the entire issue at auction. The immediate effect of a failed auction is that the interest rate on the security generally resets to a contractual rate and holders cannot liquidate their holdings. Our ARS portfolio will continue to be offered for auction until the auction succeeds, the issuer calls the security, the security matures (after a term of up to 38 years) or, in light of recent uncertainties in the global credit and financial markets, we may decide not to hold until final maturity if the opportunity arises to sell these securities on reasonable terms. There is no assurance that future auctions of securities in our ARS portfolio will be successful. As a result, our ability to voluntarily liquidate and recover the carrying value of some or our entire ARS portfolio may be limited for an indefinite period of time (up to a maximum of each security’s final maturity date). This limitation could negatively affect our overall liquidity. As of the date of this report, there was insufficient observable market information available to directly determine the fair value of our ARS investments. Using the limited available market valuation information, we performed a discounted cash flow analysis to determine the estimated fair value of our ARS investments and recorded an other-than-temporary realized loss on part of our portfolio. Our valuation is sensitive to market conditions and management judgment and can change significantly based on the assumptions used. If we are unable to sell our ARS at auction or our assumptions differ from actual results, we may be required to record additional impairment charges on these investments. We have identified part of our ARS portfolio as other-than-temporarily impaired, and it could take until final maturity of the underlying securities to recover the par value of our ARS portfolio. If we need to liquidate a portion of our ARS portfolio while the securities are impaired, we may incur additional losses that could negatively affect our actual financial performance. Further deterioration in the global credit and financial markets would negatively impact our current portfolio of ARS investments, cash equivalents and short-term investments or our ability to meet our financing objectives. Significant changes in the market price of our common stock could result in securities litigation claims against us. Significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with respect to the publicly-traded securities of technology companies generally. The price of our common stock recently has changed significantly and is likely to continue to experience significant changes in the future. In the past, securities litigation claims have been filed against certain companies following a period of decline in the market price of their publicly-traded securities. We may be the target of similar securities litigation claims in the future. Risks associated with litigation often are difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. Although we maintain director and officer insurance, the amount of insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover a claim and the continued availability of this insurance cannot be assured. Future litigation, if any, may result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our ability to use our deferred tax assets is subject to certain annual limitations, and may be further limited by a “change of control.” At September 27, 2009, our deferred tax assets included $32,912,000 of unused tax credits, of which $5,715,000 can be carried forward indefinitely and $27,197,000 expire at various dates beginning in 2018. In addition, at September 27, 2009, 21 our deferred tax assets also included $84,841,000 of net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards that will begin to expire in 2021 if not otherwise used by us. As of September 27, 2009, we had an estimated NOL carryforward of approximately $231,985,000 for United States federal tax return purposes. A valuation allowance of $158,975,000 has been recognized to offset the related deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty of realizing the deferred tax assets before they expire. Both our unused tax credits and our estimated NOL carryforwards may be used to offset taxable income, if any, generated by us in future years. Our ability to use these deferred tax assets is subject to an annual limitation imposed by certain change of control provisions under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code that may be triggered by an aggregate change in the beneficial ownership of our common stock. If we do not generate sufficient profits or the annual limitation under Section 382 is triggered, some or all of our deferred tax assets may expire or we may not be able to use them to offset taxes due in the applicable period. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through copyrights, patents, trademarks, trade secrets and other measures. We may not, however, be able to obtain rights to protect our technology. In addition, competitors may be able to develop similar technology independently. Our success in the disk drive industry depends in large part on trade secrets relating to our proprietary manufacturing processes. Our BioMeasurement Division is engaged in a market where third parties have significant existing patent portfolios. We seek to protect trade secrets and our other proprietary technology in part by requiring each of our employees to enter into non-disclosure, assignment and non-competition agreements. In these agreements, the employee agrees to maintain the confidentiality of all of our proprietary information and, subject to certain exceptions, to assign to us all rights in any proprietary information or technology made or contributed by the employee during his or her employment. In addition, we regularly enter into non-disclosure agreements with third parties, such as consultants, strategic suppliers and customers. These agreements may, however, be breached, and we may not have an adequate remedy for any such breach. In addition, our competitors may otherwise learn or independently develop our trade secrets. We believe that the patents we hold and may obtain are valuable, but that they will not independently determine our success. Moreover, we may not receive patents for our pending patent applications, and our issued patents may not be broad enough to protect our technology adequately. Our future technology may not be protected, and any patent issued to us may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or infringed. In addition, we have only limited patent rights outside the United States, and the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In the past, in connection with our disk drive industry business, we have entered into licensing and cross-licensing agreements relating to certain of our patents and patent applications allowing some of our competitors to produce products similar to ours in return for royalty payments and/or cross-license rights. In November 2001, we entered into cross-license agreements with three suspension assembly suppliers, and in October 2003, we entered into an additional cross-licensing agreement with an additional suspension assembly supplier, enabling each of them to offer customers in the disk drive industry TSA suspension assemblies based on our proprietary technology. The agreements also include cross-licenses to certain existing and future suspension assembly technology. Should these competitors become successful at producing TSA suspension assemblies in high volume, our demand could be reduced and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We and certain users of our disk drive industry products have received, and may receive, communications from third parties asserting patents against us or our customers that may relate to certain of our manufacturing equipment or to our products or to products that include our products as a component. Some of our competitors have experience with, and have developed patent portfolios relating to, technology associated with our TSA+ product. In addition, we and certain of our disk drive industry customers have been sued on patents having claims closely related to disk drive industry products we sell. If any third party makes a valid infringement claim against us and we are unable to obtain a license on terms acceptable to us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We expect that, as the number of patents issued in connection with our disk drive industry business continues to increase, the volume of intellectual property claims made against us could increase. We may need to engage in litigation to: • enforce patents issued or licensed to us; • protect trade secrets or know-how owned by us; or 22 • determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the intellectual property rights of others. In the past, we have litigated claims against a competitive disk drive industry supplier alleging infringement of our patents. We could incur substantial costs in other such litigation or other similar legal actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, frequent and extensive litigation and administrative proceedings over patent and other intellectual property rights are hallmarks of the medical technology industry, and this litigation is expensive, complex and lengthy, and its outcome is difficult to predict. Medical technology patent litigation may result in significant royalty or other payments or injunctions that may prevent the sale of our product and significantly divert the attention of our BioMeasurement Division technical and management personnel. We cannot be certain that we will successfully defend our patents from infringement or claims of invalidity or unenforceability, or that we will successfully defend against allegations of infringement of third-party patents. Our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. Our management is required to provide our shareholders a report on our internal controls over financial reporting including an assessment of the effectiveness of these controls to provide reasonable assurance a material misstatement did not occur in our financial statements. While our management continues to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we cannot assure you that our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies may occur in the future. Such deficiencies, particularly a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, could adversely affect our financial results, the market price of our common stock and our reputation. 