Risk Factors Cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that we have made pursuant to the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections about the disk drive industry, and our beliefs and assumptions. We intend words such as “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control and are difficult to predict. These factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or forecasted in the forward-looking statements. We describe these risks and uncertainties in the following risk factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We caution you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our management’s view only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are not obligated to update these statements or publicly release the result of any revisions to them to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Almost all of our sales depend on the disk drive industry, which is cyclical, subject to ongoing technological innovation and subject to intense price competition. Sales of suspension assemblies and suspension assembly components accounted for 99% of our net sales in 2005, 2004 and 2003. The disk drive industry is intensely competitive and technology changes rapidly, such as during past industry transitions to smaller disks or higher density read/write heads. The industry’s demand for disk drive components also fluctuates. The disk drive industry experiences periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply, as in our fourth quarter of 2005, and subsequent contraction. These cycles may affect suppliers to this industry because disk drive manufacturers tend to order more disk drive components than they may need during growth periods, and sharply reduce orders for these components during periods of contraction. Industry transitions in head technology and data density improvements impact demand for suspension assemblies. During past industry transitions production yields of head and disk drive manufacturers initially were reduced. Because a significant portion of head yield reduction occurs after the head is bonded onto the suspension assembly, low yields at our customers often result in increased demand for suspension assemblies, as in 2003, in order to achieve desired disk drive shipment levels. When our customers improve their production yields, as in 2004, overall demand for our products may be negatively impacted. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if a reduction in the industry’s component demand continues long-term or a future significant slowdown in the industry occurs. During periods of slowing technological advances, disk drive manufacturers may compete more aggressively on price and exert downward price pressure on component suppliers. In addition, in order for drives to be more widely used in consumer electronics applications, drive manufacturers may seek to reduce the cost of disk drives, which also may result in 9 Table of Contents downward price pressure for component suppliers, including suppliers of suspension assemblies. If there is continued downward pressure on prices of disk drive components, our operating results could be negatively affected. A slowdown in demand for computer systems and consumer electronics may cause a decline in demand for suspension assemblies. Our suspension assemblies are components in computers and, increasingly, a variety of consumer electronics products. The demand for these products can be volatile. In a weak economy, consumer spending tends to decline and retail demand for computers and other consumer electronics tends to decrease, as does business demand for computer systems. Demand for suspension assemblies therefore may be adversely impacted as a result of a weaker economy. In addition, in the past, unexpected slowdowns in demand for computer systems and consumer electronics have caused sharp declines in demand for suspension assemblies, resulting in periods during which the supply of suspension assemblies exceeded demand. If an unexpected slowdown in demand for suspension assemblies occurs or if demand decreases as a result of a weakening economy, our results of operations will be materially adversely affected as a result of lower revenue and gross margins. To meet industry requirements, we must extend our existing process capabilities and develop new products and features, which will increase our operating costs. Our continued success depends on our ability to develop and rapidly bring to volume production new products and product features that meet increasingly tighter performance specifications. A number of risks are inherent in this process. Increasingly tighter performance specifications, as well as transitions to new product platforms, initially can make suspension assemblies more difficult to manufacture and lower our overall manufacturing yields and efficiencies. This in turn can cause us to delay or miss product shipments. We also may incur higher manufacturing costs or we may need to change or develop new manufacturing processes. For example, we are developing an additive process and adding associated capital equipment for producing future generations of suspension assemblies. If processes change, we may need to replace, modify or design, build and install equipment. These changes may require additional capital expenditures and increased development and support expenses. Disk drive makers continue to expand their product lines to include drives offering performance characteristics optimized for specific applications, including a variety of consumer electronics applications. This is resulting in a proliferation of individual disk drive programs, each of which may require a different suspension assembly to meet a customer’s specific performance criteria. We expect to increase our research and development expenses in 2006 to approximately $50,000,000 to $60,000,000 primarily due to investments in the development of new process capabilities and new products and product features. We expect these expenses to increase for the following new products: • suspension assemblies with tighter performance specifications than our customers currently require; • suspension assemblies that incorporate new materials, such as thinner laminates which are more difficult to handle in the manufacturing process; • suspension assemblies that require additional or smaller electrical conductors; • suspension assemblies for use with next-generation read/write heads; and • suspension assemblies that incorporate dual stage actuators to improve head positioning over increasingly tighter data tracks on each disk. If we fail to introduce successfully new products or product features on a regular and timely basis, demand for our existing products could decline, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If a competitor introduced a widely accepted new suspension assembly design, and we were not able to respond to the new design effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our investment in developing new process capabilities to produce suspension assemblies will result in significant increases in our operating expenses and may not result in a product that is acceptable to our customers. Rapid technological change in the disk drive industry, as well as the expanding use of disk drives in a growing range of consumer electronics applications, has led to numerous suspension assembly design changes and tighter performance specifications. To maintain our position in the disk drive industry, we need to develop new process capabilities that we 10 Table of Contents believe will be needed to achieve the ever increasing performance requirements of our customers. We are investing a substantial amount of engineering, financial, management and manufacturing resources to develop process capabilities, including additive processing of suspension assemblies, to meet these emerging specifications. Additive processing involves depositing a thin seed layer of metal onto a polyimide surface, then imaging and chemically plating up that seed layer in the shape of the desired circuitry to form the suspension’s electrical conductors. We do not expect to begin volume production of TSA+ suspensions using an additive process during 2006, and we may not be able to achieve volume production on a profitable basis, if at all. Our development of additive process capabilities may require more capital investment than we currently anticipate, which will adversely impact our operating results. If our development of additive process capabilities is delayed for any reason, or if suspension assemblies cannot be produced profitably in the quantities or to the specifications required by customers, we may need to purchase components manufactured through additive processing and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to purchase such components on terms acceptable to us or at all. The introduction of new process capabilities for our products increases the likelihood of unexpected quality concerns, which may negatively impact our ability to bring products to market on time and at acceptable costs. Further, most of our current competitors use components produced through additive processing for volume production of suspension assemblies, which may give them an advantage in developing and qualifying new products with our customers. We may not be able to manufacture our products efficiently due to changes in product mix or technology, or other unforeseen events. We manufacture a wide variety of suspension assemblies with different selling prices and manufacturing costs. Disk drive makers continue to expand their product lines to include drives offering performance characteristics optimized for specific applications, including consumer electronics applications, which has resulted in a proliferation of individual disk drive programs. Our product mix varies weekly as market demand changes. In the third and fourth quarters of 2005, our mix changed to include more products that are more difficult to produce. Any substantial variation in product mix can lead to changes in utilization of our equipment and tooling, inventory obsolescence and overstaffing in certain areas, all of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Manufacturing yields, efficiencies and processing operations vary from product to product. Newer products often require new or additional manufacturing process steps and typically have lower initial manufacturing yields and efficiencies as we ramp up manufacturing. As a result, new products are frequently more expensive to produce and may not be profitable. We will use new manufacturing processes to produce additive suspensions, which may cause us to experience inefficiencies and lower yields. We have experienced sales returns in the past and as we ramp up manufacturing of new products, or as new features for our products are introduced, or as new manufacturing processes are implemented, we also may in the future experience increased sales returns. In addition, in the future we may be required to reimburse customers for product costs relating to the incorporation of defective suspension assemblies into our customers’ products. We cannot be sure that we will attain our output goals and be profitable with regard to any of our suspension assembly products. We may need to transfer production of certain suspension assemblies from one manufacturing site to another. In the past, such transfers have lowered initial yields and/or manufacturing efficiencies. This results in higher manufacturing costs. Our manufacturing plants are located in Minnesota, South Dakota and Wisconsin, all of which can experience severe weather. Severe weather has, at times, resulted in lower production and decreased our shipments. Our ability to conduct business would be impaired if our workforce were to be unionized or if a significant number of our specialized employees were to leave and we could not replace them with comparable personnel. Our business may be adversely affected if we need to adjust the size of our workforce due to fluctuating demand. The locations of our plants and the broad span and technological complexity of our products and processes may limit the number of satisfactory engineering and other candidates for key positions. We may not be able to utilize our capacity efficiently or accurately plan our capacity requirements, which may negatively affect our operating results. We have at times in the past increased our production capacity and the overhead that supports production based on anticipated market demand, and in 2004 and 2005 we added production capacity based on expected future demand. Anticipated market demand, however, has not always developed as expected or remained at a consistent level. As a result, 11 Table of Contents we have underutilized our capacity in the past, and in 2000 and 2001, had asset impairment charges of $56,523,000 and $20,830,000, respectively, and we may underutilize our production capacity in the future. This underutilization decreases our profitability. The following factors complicate accurate capacity planning for market demand: • changes in the mix of specific products our customers buy and the features they require; • the ability to add and train staff to operate our production equipment in advance of demand; • the pace of technological change; • variability in our manufacturing yields and productivity; and • long lead times for most of our plant and equipment expenditures, requiring major financial commitments well in advance of actual production requirements. Our inability to plan our capacity requirements accurately and efficiently utilize our production capacity, or our failure to put in place the technologies and capacity necessary to meet market demand, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience difficulties in the implementation and transition to our new enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system. We are in the process of implementing a new ERP system throughout our company and have experienced some delays, extra costs and inefficiency. Because ERP systems are highly complex, implementation and the transition to the new system has been costly and may initially result in additional unexpected cost or difficulties, including failure or inefficient operation of the new system. A failure in the new system could impair our ability to access certain business and financial information. In addition, we may experience difficulties in the transition to our new ERP system that could affect our internal control systems, processes and procedures. Should we experience such difficulties as a result of our new ERP system, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our sales are concentrated in a small customer base. Although we supply nearly all domestic and foreign-based manufacturers of disk drives and manufacturers of disk drive components, sales to our five largest customers constituted 89% of net sales for 2005, 85% of net sales for 2004 and 81% of net sales for 2003. Over the years, the disk drive industry has experienced numerous consolidations. These consolidations, together with companies exiting the disk drive industry, result in fewer, but larger, customers for our products. The loss of market share by one of our major customers or the loss of one or more of our major customers for any reason, including the development by any one customer of the capability to produce suspension assemblies in high volume for its own products, a change in the type of suspension assembly used by a customer or the failure of a customer to pay its account balance with us, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business is capital intensive and we may not be able to obtain the capital we need to maintain or grow our business. We will need significant funds over the next several years to achieve our long-term growth objectives. We would likely use these funds for capital expenditures, research and development, debt service and working capital. Our business is highly capital intensive. Our total capital expenditures were approximately $197,123,000 in 2005, $93,085,000 in 2004 and $52,023,000 in 2003. We anticipate spending approximately $280,000,000 on capital expenditures during 2006. In addition, research and development expenses were approximately $36,829,000 in 2005, and we expect that they will increase to approximately $50,000,000 to $60,000,000 in 2006. The 2005 increases in capital expenditures and research and development expenses were primarily related to expansions of trace and photoetch manufacturing and investments in processes, tooling, equipment and facilities along with expenses related to customer-specific development efforts and process improvements. We will pursue additional debt or equity financing to supplement our current capital resources if needed in 2006 and beyond. Our ability to obtain additional financing will depend upon a number of factors, including our future performance and financial results and general economic and capital market conditions. We cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain adequate capital or raise additional capital on reasonable terms or at all, if needed. 12 Table of Contents The following factors could affect our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all: • our results of operations; • general economic conditions and conditions in the disk drive industry; • the perception in the capital markets of our business; • our ratio of debt to equity; • our financial condition; • our business prospects; and • changes in interest rates. Our ability to execute our long-term strategy depends to a significant degree on our ability to obtain additional long-term debt and equity capital. We have no commitments for additional borrowings, other than our existing credit facility, or for sales of equity, other than under our existing employee benefit plans. We cannot determine the precise amount and timing of our funding needs at this time. We may be unable to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we fail to comply with certain covenants relating to our indebtedness, we may need to refinance our indebtedness to repay it. We also may need to refinance our indebtedness at maturity. We may not be able to obtain additional capital on favorable terms to refinance our indebtedness. Demand for our suspension assemblies will decline if we are unable to qualify our products in disk drive programs. We must qualify our products with our customers. The qualification process for disk drive products can be complex and difficult. We cannot be sure that our suspension assemblies will continue to be selected for design into our customers’ products. If we are unable to obtain additional customer qualifications, or if we cannot qualify our products for high-volume production quantities, or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If the rate of data density improves significantly, demand for suspension assemblies may decrease. Disk drive manufacturers have been able to steadily increase data density, and we believe that they will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. Increasing data density permits drive manufacturers to use fewer disks in each disk drive, which in turn reduces the number of components they need, including suspension assemblies. From calendar 1999 through 2002, the rate of improvement in data density exceeded historical rates, and we estimate that the average number of suspension assemblies required per drive decreased from approximately 4.5 in calendar 1999 to approximately 2.5 in calendar 2002. This contributed to a decrease in our total suspension assembly shipments from 583 million in 1999 to 398 million in 2002. In calendar 2003, we estimate that the average number of suspension assemblies required per disk drive reached a low point of approximately 2.3, and in calendar 2004, we estimate the number increased only slightly to 2.4. In calendar 2005, we estimate it has increased to 2.8, which has benefited demand. If improvements in data density again begin to outpace growth in data storage capacity requirements, then demand for our suspension assemblies may decline and we may not be able to maintain or expand our suspension assembly business. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations. Our past operating results, and our gross margins, have fluctuated from fiscal period to period. We expect our future operating results and gross margins will continue to fluctuate from fiscal period to period. The following factors may cause these fluctuations: • changes in overall demand for our products; • changes in our manufacturing yields; • changes in our production efficiency; • changes in utilization of our production capacity; • increased costs when we start producing new products and features, and ramping high-volume production; • changes in the specific products our customers buy and features they require; • depreciation expense associated with adding production capacity; • changes in our selling prices; • changes in our manufacturing process, or problems related to our manufacturing process; • changes in our infrastructure costs and expected production and shipping costs, and how we control them; 13 Table of Contents • technological changes (such as data density improvements) that reduce the number of suspension assemblies per drive required by drive makers; • long disruptions in operations at any of our plants or our customers’ plants for any reason; and • changes in the cost of, or limits on, available materials and labor. Our overall operating results in 2005 were favorably impacted by increased demand for data storage in traditional computing applications as well as in consumer electronics applications, a flat rate of improvement in data density requiring additional disks to achieve the higher storage capacity required for many disk drive applications and our share positions on the types of disk drives in particularly high demand. During the fourth quarter of 2005, however, our operating results were impacted by lighter demand, increased depreciation costs, a shift in product mix toward advanced suspension assembly products that are typically more costly to produce in the ramp-up to higher volume and increased labor expenses. We continue to have limited visibility for future demand. If customer demand for suspension assemblies weakens, or if one or more customers reduce, delay or cancel orders, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We typically allow customers to change or cancel orders on short notice. We plan our production and inventory based primarily on forecasts of customer demand, including forecasts of customer pulls of product out of our “vendor managed inventory” (VMI) facilities. Certain agreements with our customers provide that we maintain minimum finished goods inventory levels. Due to the higher demand we experienced during the first three quarters of 2005, our finished goods inventory levels were low. During the fourth quarter of 2005 we were able to improve our finished goods inventory by building additional suspension assemblies beyond our customers’ immediate demand. Our customers often prefer a dual source supply and, therefore, may allocate their demand among suppliers. Both customer demand and the resulting forecasts often fluctuate substantially. These factors, among others, create an environment where scheduled production and capacity utilization can vary significantly from week to week, leading to variability in gross margins and difficulty in estimating our position in the marketplace. Our selling prices are subject to market pressure from our competitors and pricing pressure from our customers. For example, in 2004, our average selling prices declined as a result of planned price reductions triggered by higher volumes of certain suspension assemblies, as well as a change in the mix of products we sold. Our selling prices also are affected by changes in overall demand for our products, changes in the specific products our customers buy and a product’s life cycle. A typical life cycle for our products begins with higher pricing when products are introduced and decreasing prices as they mature. To offset price decreases during a product’s life, we rely primarily on higher sales volume and improving our manufacturing yields and efficiencies to reduce our cost. If we cannot reduce our manufacturing costs as prices decline during our products’ life cycles, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets. In the event that actual results differ from these estimates or we adjust these estimates in future periods, our financial condition and results of operation may be negatively impacted. Furthermore, many of our products are shipped overseas, specifically to the Pacific Rim region. The income we earn from these products has qualified for favorable tax treatment. If we stop shipping products overseas, or if we are unable to mitigate the unfavorable tax impact of new tax laws affecting products shipped overseas, our effective tax rate could increase significantly and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If our customers improve their manufacturing yields, demand for our suspension assemblies may decrease. We believe that improvements in our sales and unit volumes in 2003 and the first half of 2004 were due in part to manufacturing difficulties experienced by our customers as they transitioned to higher density read/write heads. These customers experienced higher levels of defective read/write heads, which they were unable to detect until after they had attached the read/write heads to our suspension assemblies. Our customers therefore required more suspension assemblies in those years. We believe our customers have improved their manufacturing yields, which resulted in dampening demand growth in 2004. Some of our customers may develop processes by which they either separate our suspension assemblies from a defective read/write head in order to re-use the suspension assembly or test the read/write head to ensure it is not defective before they attach the suspension assembly. If our customers’ production yields continue to improve in the future, or if they succeed in their process development efforts and can separate and re-use suspension 14 Table of Contents assemblies or test the read/write head before attaching suspension assemblies, overall suspension assembly shipments will decline and our operating results could be negatively affected. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other measures. We may not, however, be able to protect our technology adequately. In addition, competitors may be able to develop similar technology independently. Our success depends in large part on trade secrets relating to our proprietary manufacturing processes. We seek to protect these trade secrets and our other proprietary technology in part by requiring each of our employees to enter into non-disclosure and non-competition agreements. In these agreements, the employee agrees to maintain the confidentiality of all of our proprietary information and, subject to certain exceptions, to assign to us all rights in any proprietary information or technology made or contributed by the employee during his or her employment. In addition, we regularly enter into non-disclosure agreements with third parties, such as consultants, strategic suppliers and customers. These agreements may, however, be breached, and we may not have an adequate remedy for any such breach. In addition, our competitors may otherwise learn or independently develop our trade secrets. We believe that the patents we hold and may obtain are valuable, but that they will not independently determine our success. Moreover, we may not receive patents for our pending patent applications, and our issued patents may not be broad enough to protect our technology adequately. We compete in an industry with rapid development and technological innovation. We cannot be sure that our future technology will be protectable, or that any patent issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or infringed. In addition, we have only limited patent rights outside the United States, and the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In the past, we have entered into licensing and cross-licensing agreements relating to certain of our patents and patent applications allowing some of our competitors to produce products similar to ours in return for royalty payments and/or cross-license rights. In November 2001, we entered into cross-license agreements with three suspension assembly suppliers, and in October 2003, we entered into an additional cross-licensing agreement with an additional suspension assembly supplier, enabling each of them to offer customers in the disk drive industry TSA suspension assemblies based on our proprietary technology. The agreements also include cross-licenses to certain existing and future suspension assembly technology. Should these competitors become successful at producing TSA suspension assemblies in high volume, our demand could be reduced and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We and certain users of our products have received, and may receive, communications from third parties asserting patents against us or our customers that may relate to certain of our manufacturing equipment or to our products or to products that include our products as a component. In addition, we and certain of our customers have been sued on patents having claims closely related to products we sell. If any third party makes a valid infringement claim against us and we are unable to obtain a license on terms acceptable to us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We expect that, as the number of patents issued continues to increase, the volume of intellectual property claims made against us could increase. We may need to engage in litigation to: • enforce patents issued or licensed to us; • protect trade secrets or know-how owned by us; or • determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the intellectual property rights of others. We have litigated claims against a competitive supplier alleging infringement of our patents. We could incur substantial costs in other such litigation or other similar legal actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have difficulty obtaining an adequate supply of raw materials at reasonable prices. We currently can obtain certain types of stainless steel and photoresist, a liquid compound used in the photoetching process, from only one supplier, and the laminate of stainless steel, coverlay and copper that meets our strict specifications, from only two suppliers. The price we pay for stainless steel periodically is reset and can fluctuate with changes in the value of the Japanese yen. When it does so, our costs for raw materials may increase. If we could not obtain the materials referred 15 Table of Contents to above in the necessary quantities, with the necessary quality and at reasonable prices, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Competing process capabilities and storage technology may reduce demand for our products. Certain of our customers use, or may consider using, alternative interconnect technologies that compete with the electrical interconnect features of our TSA suspension assemblies. We cannot be sure that our customers will continue to select TSA suspensions for design into their products instead of alternative interconnect technologies, such as deposition circuitry, produced using an additive process, and flexible circuitry. We are currently developing process capabilities to produce suspension assemblies using an additive process. If we are unable to develop additive process capabilities or qualify this new process capability with our customers in time to meet market requirements or if our customers accept other suspension technologies that compete with TSA suspensions, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Future technological innovations may reduce demand for disk drives. Data storage alternatives that compete with disk drive-based data storage do exist. These storage alternatives include semiconductor (flash) memory, tape memory and optical (DVD and CD) drives. The current core technology for data storage in the computing industry has been disk drives for many years. The disk drive could be replaced by an alternate data storage technology in the future. Emerging storage applications, particularly in the consumer electronics sector, may use flash memory instead of disk drives, which would limit growth opportunities for disk drive-based data storage. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if the computer industry adopts technology that replaces disk drives as a computer data storage medium or if an alternative data storage medium becomes dominant in consumer electronics applications. Taxation authorities could challenge certain tax positions we have taken. Although we believe that all tax positions we take in our tax returns are reasonable and appropriate, a taxation authority may challenge those positions in the future. A challenge to certain positions we have taken, if successful despite our efforts to defend our original position, could result in our being required to pay additional taxes (including penalties and interest), which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We expect that our BioMeasurement Division will continue to experience operating losses. Our BioMeasurement Division has developed a medical device called the InSpectra system that uses an optical technology to measure local, rather than systemic, oxygen saturation of hemoglobin in tissue. During 2002, we sold our first units, and subsequently we have sold this device to researchers and early adopters in key trauma centers. During 2005, 15 independent clinical studies using the InSpectra system were completed in the United States and Europe. Our current research efforts in the BioMeasurement Division focus on clinical studies. Operating losses for our BioMeasurement Division were $8,688,000, $6,951,000 and $5,979,000 for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We do not expect to generate significant revenue from this device during 2006. We expect operating losses in the BioMeasurement Division to continue for the foreseeable future, which will negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. Our operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air or water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances or wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws or non-compliance with environmental permits. Servicing our existing debt may constrain our future operations. Our ratio of total debt and capital leases to total capitalization at September 25, 2005 was 21%. Our ability to satisfy our obligations to pay interest and to repay debt is dependent on our future performance. Our performance depends, in part, on prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, including factors beyond our control. To the 16 Table of Contents extent that we use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, that cash flow will not be available to fund future operations and capital expenditures. Our debt level also may limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future capital expenditures, debt service, research and development, working capital and other general corporate requirements. It also could make us more vulnerable to general economic downturns and competitive pressures. We cannot be sure that our operating cash flow will be sufficient to fund our future capital expenditure, research and development and debt service requirements or to fund future operations. Our financing agreements contain restrictive covenants with which we may not be able to comply. We have entered into financing agreements that contain restrictive financial covenants. These covenants require us, among other things, to maintain specified levels of net income, cash availability, tangible net worth and leverage ratios, and also impose certain limitations on additional indebtedness, leases, guarantees and the payment of dividends. Our ability to comply with restrictive financial covenants depends upon our future operating performance. Our future operating performance depends, in part, on general industry conditions and other factors beyond our control. We cannot be sure that we will be able to comply with these covenants in the future, and we may not be successful in renegotiating our financing agreements or otherwise obtaining relief from these covenants. If we default under some or all of our financing agreements, our lenders may require that we immediately repay the full outstanding amount we owe to them. In such event, we may have to pursue alternative financing arrangements. If we are not in compliance with restrictive covenants in our financing agreements at the end of any fiscal quarter, our future results of operations and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. We have been named as a defendant in securities class action litigation which may result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. As described in “Legal Proceedings,” a number of shareholder class action suits have been filed naming us and certain of our officers and directors as co-defendants. We are not able to predict the ultimate outcome of this litigation. It is possible that this litigation could be resolved adversely to us, could result in substantial costs and could divert management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business. Risks associated with legal liability often are difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. While we maintain director and officer insurance, the amount of insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover a claim and the continued availability of this insurance cannot be assured. We may in the future be the target of additional litigation and this litigation may result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. 