Item 1A. Risk Factors DISK DRIVE COMPONENTS DIVISION Almost all of our sales depend on the disk drive industry, which is cyclical, subject to ongoing technological innovation and subject to intense price competition. Sales of suspension assemblies and suspension assembly components accounted for 99% of our net sales in 2007, 2006 and 2005. The disk drive industry is intensely competitive and technology changes rapidly, such as during past industry transitions to smaller disks or higher density read/write heads. The industry’s demand for disk drive components also fluctuates. The disk drive industry experiences periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction, as in our fourth quarter of 2005. These cycles may affect suppliers to this industry because disk drive manufacturers tend to order more disk drive components than they may need during growth periods, and sharply reduce orders for these components during periods of contraction. From time to time, disk drive manufacturers may compete more aggressively on price and exert downward price pressure on disk drive component suppliers. If there is continued downward pressure on prices of disk drive components, our operating results could be negatively affected. Industry transitions in head technology and data density improvements impact demand for suspension assemblies. During past industry transitions production yields of head and disk drive manufacturers initially were reduced. Because a significant portion of head yield reduction occurs after the head is bonded onto the suspension assembly, low yields at our customers, as in 2003, often result in increased demand for suspension assemblies. When our customers improve their production yields, as in 2004, overall demand for our products may be negatively impacted. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if a reduction in the industry’s component demand continues long-term or a future significant slowdown in the industry occurs. We may not be able to utilize our capacity efficiently or accurately plan our capacity requirements, which may negatively affect our operating results. We increase our production capacity and the overhead that supports production based on anticipated market demand. Market demand, however, has not always developed as expected or remained at a consistent level. The underutilization that can result decreases our profitability. For example, in 2007, market demand for our suspension assemblies was below our expectations primarily due to our loss of market share in the mature desktop segment of the disk drive market. This resulted in underutilization of our manufacturing capacity. As a result, our profitability also was below our expectations. The following factors complicate accurate capacity planning for market demand: • changes in the demand for and mix of specific products our customers buy and the features they require; • our ability to add and train staff to operate our production equipment in advance of demand; • the market’s pace of technological change; • variability in our manufacturing yields and productivity; and • long lead times for most of our plant and equipment expenditures, requiring major financial commitments well in advance of actual production requirements. Our inability to plan our capacity requirements accurately and efficiently utilize our production capacity, or our failure to put in place the technologies and capacity necessary to meet market demand, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Our sales are concentrated in a small customer base. Although we supply nearly all domestic and foreign-based manufacturers of disk drives and head-gimbal assemblers, sales to our five largest customers constituted 89%, 86% and 89% of net sales in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Over the years, the disk drive industry has experienced numerous consolidations. In September 2007, TDK Corporation acquired the recording head business of our customer Alps Electric Co., Ltd. In addition, in August 2007, TDK Corporation also announced it had signed a purchase agreement to acquire MPT with an expected closing date by the end of calendar 2007. These consolidations, together with companies exiting the disk drive industry, result in fewer, but larger, customers for our products. The failure by any one of our customers to pay its account balance with us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The following factors could adversely impact our market share: • loss of market share by one of our major customers; • change in supply chain alignment by a customer; • loss of one or more of our major customers for any reason, including the development by any one customer of the capability to produce suspension assemblies in high volume for its own products; and • change in the type of suspension assembly used by a customer. Any reduction in our market share could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may not be able to manufacture our products efficiently due to changes in product mix or technology, or other unforeseen events. We manufacture a wide variety of suspension assemblies with different selling prices and manufacturing costs. Disk drive makers continue to expand their product lines to include drives offering performance characteristics optimized for specific applications, which has resulted in a proliferation of individual disk drive programs. We cannot produce certain low-volume disk drive programs as efficiently as we produce high-volume programs. Our product mix varies as market demand changes. Any substantial variation in product mix can lead to changes in utilization of our equipment and tooling, inventory obsolescence and overstaffing in certain areas, all of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Manufacturing yields, efficiencies and processing operations vary from product to product. Newer products often require new or additional manufacturing process steps and typically have lower initial manufacturing yields and efficiencies as we ramp up manufacturing. As a result, new products are frequently more expensive to produce and may not be profitable. We are using new manufacturing processes to produce TSA+ suspension assemblies, which may cause us to experience inefficiencies and lower yields. We have experienced missed shipments and increased sales returns in the past as we ramp up manufacturing of new products, or as new features for our products are introduced, or as new manufacturing processes are implemented. We also may in the future experience missed shipments or increased sales returns. In addition, we may be required to reimburse customers for product costs relating to the incorporation of defective suspension assemblies into our customers’ products. We may not attain our output goals and be profitable with regard to any of our suspension assembly products. We may need to transfer production of certain suspension assemblies from one manufacturing site to another. In the past, such transfers have lowered initial yields and/or manufacturing efficiencies. This results in higher manufacturing costs. Our manufacturing plants are located in Minnesota, South Dakota and Wisconsin, all of which can experience severe weather. Severe weather has, at times, resulted in lower production and decreased our shipments. Our ability to conduct business would be impaired if our workforce were to be unionized or if a significant number of our specialized employees were to leave and we could not replace them with comparable personnel. Our business may be adversely affected if we need to adjust the size of our workforce due to fluctuating demand. The locations of our plants and the broad span and technological complexity of our products and processes may limit the number of satisfactory engineering and other candidates for key positions. If the rate of data density improves at a significantly faster rate than the rate of increase in the demand for disk drive storage, demand for suspension assemblies may decrease. Disk drive manufacturers have been able to steadily increase data density, and we believe that they will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. Increasing data density permits drive manufacturers to reduce the average number of disks in each disk drive, which in turn reduces the number of components they need per drive, including suspension assemblies. From 10 Table of Contents calendar 1999 through 2002, the rate of improvement in data density exceeded historical rates, and we estimate that the average number of suspension assemblies required per drive decreased from approximately 4.5 in calendar 1999 to approximately 2.5 in calendar 2002. This contributed to a decrease in our total suspension assembly shipments from 583 million in fiscal 1999 to 398 million in fiscal 2002. In calendar 2003, we estimate that the average number of suspension assemblies required per disk drive reached a low point of approximately 2.3. In calendar 2005, we estimate the average number of suspension assemblies required per disk drive increased to 2.8, which benefited demand. We estimate the number has remained relatively stable in calendar 2006 and 2007. If improvements in data density again begin to outpace growth in data storage capacity requirements, then demand for our suspension assemblies may decline and we may not be able to maintain or expand our suspension assembly business. A slowdown in demand for computer systems and consumer electronics may cause a decline in demand for suspension assemblies. Our suspension assemblies are components in computers and a variety of consumer electronics products. The demand for these products can be volatile. In a weak economy, consumer spending tends to decline and retail demand for computers and other consumer electronics tends to decrease, as does business demand for computer systems. Demand for suspension assemblies therefore may be adversely impacted as a result of a weaker economy. In addition, in the past, unexpected slowdowns in demand for computer systems and consumer electronics have caused sharp declines in demand for suspension assemblies, resulting in periods during which the supply of suspension assemblies exceeded demand. If an unexpected slowdown in demand for suspension assemblies occurs or if demand decreases as a result of a weakening economy our results of operations will be materially adversely affected as a result of lower revenue and gross margins. Our investment in developing new process capabilities to produce suspension assemblies could result in significant increases in our operating expenses and may result in a product that is not acceptable to our customers. Rapid technological change in the disk drive industry, as well as the expanding use of disk drives in a growing range of consumer electronics applications, has led to numerous suspension assembly design changes and tighter performance specifications. To maintain our position in the disk drive industry, we need to develop new process capabilities to achieve the ever increasing performance requirements of our customers. Also, if processes change, we may need to replace, modify or design, build and install equipment. These changes may require additional capital expenditures and increased development and support expenses, which may adversely impact our operating results. Our 2006 and 2007 research and development expenses increased primarily due to investments in the development of new suspension assembly process capabilities and new products and product features. We expect to continue to have significant research and development expenses for the following new products: • suspension assemblies that incorporate flexures produced using additive processing; • suspension assemblies with tighter performance specifications than our customers currently require; • suspension assemblies that require additional or smaller electrical conductors; • suspension assemblies that incorporate new materials, such as thinner laminates, which are more difficult to handle in the manufacturing process; and • suspension assemblies for use with smaller read/write heads. We have invested, and continue to invest, a substantial amount of engineering and manufacturing resources to develop process capabilities, including additive processing to produce suspension assembly flexures, to meet the ever increasing performance requirements of our customers. Additive processing involves depositing thin metal layers onto a polyimide surface in the shape of the desired circuitry and then imaging and plating up metal layers to form the suspension’s electrical conductors. Although we expect to have volume production capabilities in place to fulfill customers’ requirements as the transition to TSA+ suspension assemblies begins, we do not expect to generate significant revenue from this product during 2008. If our development of additive process capabilities is delayed for any reason or if TSA+ suspension assemblies cannot be produced profitably in the quantities and to the specifications required by our customers, we may need to purchase increased quantities of additive components. We may not be able to purchase the necessary quantity of such components on terms acceptable to us or at all. The introduction of new process capabilities for our products increases the likelihood of unexpected quality concerns, which may negatively impact our ability to bring products to market on time and at acceptable costs. Further, most of our current competitors use components produced through additive processing for volume production of suspension 11 Table of Contents assemblies, which may give them an advantage in developing and qualifying new products with our customers. As we transition TSA+ suspension assemblies from development to high-volume manufacturing, we will experience higher cost due to yield loss, production inefficiencies and equipment problems. Furthermore, our additive processing capability is added in large blocks of capacity, so certain equipment will be underutilized until demand develops. Demand for our suspension assemblies will decline if we are unable to qualify our products in disk drive programs. We must qualify our products with our customers, including our TSA+ suspension assembly which is not yet in high-volume production. The qualification process for disk drive products can be complex and difficult. We cannot be sure that our suspension assemblies will continue to be selected for design into our customers’ products. If we are unable to obtain additional customer qualifications, or if we cannot qualify our products for high-volume production quantities, or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations. Our past operating results, and our gross margins, have fluctuated from fiscal period to period. We expect our future operating results and gross margins will continue to fluctuate from fiscal period to period. The following factors may cause these fluctuations: • changes in overall demand for our products; • changes in utilization of existing or newly added production capacity; • changes in our manufacturing yields and related scrap recovery; • changes in our production efficiency; • increased costs when we start producing new products and features, and ramping up high-volume production; • changes in the specific products our customers buy and features they require; • changes in our selling prices; • changes in our manufacturing process, or problems related to our manufacturing process; • changes in our infrastructure costs and expected production and shipping costs, and how we control them; • long disruptions in operations at any of our plants or our customers’ plants for any reason; and • changes in the cost of, or limits on, available materials and labor. Our overall operating results in 2005 were favorably impacted by increased demand for data storage in traditional computing applications, as well as in consumer electronics applications, a slower rate of improvement in data density requiring additional disks to achieve the higher storage capacity required for many disk drive applications and our share positions on the types of disk drives in particularly high demand. During the fourth quarter of 2005, however, our operating results were negatively impacted by lighter demand, increased depreciation costs, a shift in product mix toward advanced suspension assembly products that are typically more costly to produce in the ramp-up to higher volume (partially offset by a related increase in our scrap recovery) and increased labor expenses. In the second half of 2006, and in all of 2007, we experienced underutilization of our manufacturing capacity and the associated depreciation and overhead costs. Although we continue to have limited visibility for future demand, we expect our profitability in 2008 will continue to benefit from the cost reductions completed in the third quarter of 2007 but capacity utilization and leverage of fixed costs will continue to be key to improving gross margin. If customer demand for suspension assemblies weakens, or if one or more customers reduce, delay or cancel orders, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We typically allow customers to change or cancel orders on short notice. We plan our production and inventory based primarily on forecasts of customer demand, including forecasts of customer pulls of product out of our VMI facilities. Our customers often prefer a dual source supply and, therefore, may allocate their demand among suppliers. Both customer demand and the resulting forecasts often fluctuate substantially. These factors, among others, create an environment where scheduled production and capacity utilization can vary, leading to variability in gross margins and difficulty in estimating our position in the marketplace. Our selling prices are subject to market pressure from our competitors and pricing pressure from our customers. For example, in 2004 our average selling prices declined as a result of planned price reductions triggered by higher volumes of certain suspension assemblies, as well as a change in the mix of products we sold. Our selling prices also are affected by changes in overall demand for our products, changes in the specific products our customers buy and a product’s life cycle. A typical life cycle for our products begins with higher pricing when products are introduced and decreasing prices as they mature. To offset price decreases during a product’s life, we rely primarily on higher sales volume and improving our manufacturing 12 Table of Contents yields and efficiencies to reduce our cost. Disk drive manufacturers are increasingly seeking lower cost designs and suspension assembly pricing is becoming more competitive. For example, in 2007 we competed aggressively to supply suspension assemblies for disk drive programs that are nearing the end of their market lives, and we will continue to do so. While we produce suspension assemblies for these mature products very efficiently, our average selling price for these products is below the overall average selling price for all of our suspension assemblies. If we cannot reduce our manufacturing costs as prices decline during our products’ life cycles, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If our customers improve their manufacturing yields, demand for our suspension assemblies may decrease. We believe that improvements in our sales and unit volumes in 2003 and the first half of 2004 were due in part to manufacturing difficulties experienced by our customers as they transitioned to higher density read/write heads. These customers experienced higher levels of defective read/write heads, which they were unable to detect until after they had attached the read/write heads to our suspension assemblies. Our customers therefore required more suspension assemblies in those years. We believe our customers improved their manufacturing yields, resulting in fewer suspension assemblies being lost to scrap in their manufacturing, which dampened demand growth in 2004. Some of our customers may develop processes by which they either separate our suspension assemblies from a defective read/write head in order to re-use suspension assemblies or test the read/write head to ensure it is not defective before they attach the suspension assembly. If our customers’ production yields continue to improve in the future, or if they succeed in their process development efforts and can separate and re-use suspension assemblies or test the read/write head before attaching suspension assemblies, overall suspension assembly shipments will decline and our operating results could be negatively affected. Competing storage technology may reduce demand for our products. Other types of data storage technology, such as solid state storage or flash (semiconductor) memory, holographic memory, tape memory and optical (DVD and CD) drives, may become competitive with certain disk drive applications, and thereby could affect the demand for our products. Higher capacity storage needs typically have been better served by disk drives than by solid state storage such as flash memory, as disk drive manufacturers can offer more competitive cost per unit of capacity, while lower capacity needs increasingly are being met by flash memory technology. If flash memory suppliers overcome both the technical and economic limitations of flash memory storage and can offer better performance or more competitive cost per unit of capacity than disk drive products, demand for disk drives, and thus for our products, may decrease. Though consumer applications for flash storage also increase the need for back-up disk drives, mobile applications using flash memory storage also may displace the need for disk drive storage back-up. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if the computer industry adopts technology that replaces disk drives as a computer data storage medium. Competing process capabilities may reduce demand for our products. We have historically defined our market leadership position through innovation and technological advancement that has enabled our customers to deploy higher disk drive capacities at lower total costs. If we can no longer differentiate our product features or process capabilities, competing suppliers may have access to a greater percentage of disk drive programs and program share. This inability to differentiate could be caused through our misunderstanding of market requirements, including technology changes, or through a market delay in advancing technology, which could enable a competitor to take market share. The inability to differentiate our product offerings could also allow for supply chain alignments between our customers and other suppliers that could limit our access to available disk drive programs and corresponding market share. These alignments could include share agreements, sole-sourcing conditions or primary access to development programs. Any of the above scenarios could adversely impact our shipment volumes, average selling prices and operational costs. We may have difficulty obtaining an adequate supply of raw materials that meet our strict specifications at reasonable prices. Certain types of stainless steel, as well as covercoat and liquid photoresist (liquid compounds used in our manufacturing process), are currently single-sourced because the raw materials provided by these sources meet our strict specifications. We have chosen to obtain certain other materials, including gold salts and a laminate constructed from raw material that contains stainless steel, polyimide and copper, from a limited set of sources because of quality and pricing considerations. If we were not able to obtain an adequate supply of these materials from our current suppliers, we could experience production delays and quality problems. 13 Table of Contents The price we pay for stainless steel and laminate periodically is reset and can fluctuate with changes in the value of the Japanese yen, which will impact our costs. The price we pay for gold salts and other precious metals has recently been increasing. We typically do not pass this higher price on to our customers. If we could not obtain the materials referred to above in the necessary quantities, with the necessary quality and at reasonable prices, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. BIOMEASUREMENT DIVISION We do not know when, if ever, our BioMeasurement Division will be profitable. We have a very limited operating history in the medical device market. Our first-generation device was used primarily for research, and our second-generation product, the InSpectra StO2 System, was introduced to the trauma market late in calendar 2006. We do not know how many systems we will be able to sell, the sales breakdown between monitors and sensors, the margins we can expect or the amount of revenue that the product will generate. We do not have another medical device product for sale, so all of the division’s revenue will be derived from sales of the InSpectra StO2 System. We will continue to spend significant amounts of money on medical device sales and marketing and research and development, which will limit the division’s profitability. We may never generate enough revenue from medical device sales to offset our expenditures on the division. We do not know whether our only medical product, the InSpectra StO2 System, will achieve market acceptance. Our marketing strategy must overcome the difficulties inherent in the introduction of new products to the medical community. Clinicians will not use the InSpectra StO2 System unless they conclude, based on clinical data and personal evaluation experience, that StO2 gives them information that is valuable when making treatment decisions. If clinicians continue to rely on other methods when assessing the status of patients experiencing hemorrhagic shock, we will not be successful in selling the InSpectra StO2 System. The development of new medical technology to assess StO2 may render our product obsolete or uneconomical. Additionally, clinicians must be trained to use our InSpectra StO2 System effectively. Convincing clinicians to dedicate the time and energy necessary for adequate training in the use of our device is challenging, and we do not know whether we will be successful in these efforts. If the InSpectra StO2 System is not widely accepted by clinicians, is accepted more slowly than expected or is supplanted by superior technology, our sales may be materially adversely impacted. The long sales cycle for the InSpectra StO2 System will defer the generation of revenue by our BioMeasurement Division. We expect that the InSpectra StO2 System will have a long sales cycle because it involves the introduction of and education about a new measurement to potential customers. We believe that the period between initial discussions with a potential customer and a sale of even a single device to that customer could take between six and twelve months, depending on the potential customer’s budget and capital approval process. Training of clinicians also may take a number of weeks after a customer agrees to purchase the InSpectra StO2 System. In addition, reliance by our potential customers on third-party payors, including government programs and private health insurance plans, to reimburse some or all of the cost of patient care, and cost containment measures that health-care providers and third-party payors are instituting, both in the United States and internationally, could harm our ability to sell our product. These factors will create a significant lag in our ability to generate revenue and may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results going forward, particularly during periods in which our sales volume is relatively low. We also plan to market the device by offering customers an evaluation followed by a sensor purchase program or monitor rental period. These sales methods will further delay the generation of significant revenue. We currently have limited experience as a company selling, marketing or distributing medical devices, which could impair the BioMeasurement Division’s ability to achieve profitability. We have limited experience as a company in the marketing, sale and distribution of medical devices. We are marketing the InSpectra StO2 System through a direct sales force. Developing a direct sales force is expensive and time consuming. Additionally, any direct sales force that we develop will be competing against the experienced sales organizations used by other manufacturers of medical devices. We may not be able to develop this capability on a timely basis or at all. We face significant challenges and risks in establishing a direct sales force and marketing our device, including our ability to recruit, train and retain adequate numbers of qualified sales and marketing personnel; the ability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of hospitals and trauma centers to purchase our device or clinicians to use our device; costs associated with 14 Table of Contents hiring, maintaining and expanding a sales and marketing team; and government scrutiny associated with promotional activities in the health-care industry. If we are unable to establish and maintain a direct sales, marketing and distribution network, our BioMeasurement Division may be unable to generate revenue and may not become profitable, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to develop new applications for our product or expand our medical device product line successfully. For the near term, all of our BioMeasurement Division’s revenue will come through sales of the InSpectra StO2 Tissue Oxygenation Monitor and the InSpectra StO2 Sensor. As a result, our initial success will depend on the success of the InSpectra StO2 System. If we are unable to widely commercialize the use of this system through our marketing initiatives, our BioMeasurement Division will not be profitable. We are conducting research on other applications for the InSpectra StO2 System and our near infrared spectroscopy technology. The development of additional applications will require significant commitments of personnel and financial resources and we cannot be sure that they will be successful. Further, we cannot be sure that any new medical applications or medical devices we develop will receive regulatory approval or market acceptance. If the attempted extensions of our product offerings or new products are not commercially successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We have limited experience in manufacturing and assembling the InSpectra StO2 System, and we may encounter problems at our manufacturing facility or otherwise experience manufacturing delays or warranty claims that could result in lost revenue. We have limited experience in manufacturing, assembling or testing medical devices on a commercial scale. In order to produce our InSpectra StO2 System in quantities sufficient to meet our anticipated market demand, we will need to increase our manufacturing capacity by a significant factor over the current level. There are technical challenges to increasing manufacturing capacity, including equipment design and automation, material procurement, problems with production yields and quality control and assurance. Developing commercial scale manufacturing facilities for our BioMeasurement Division will require the investment of substantial funds and the hiring and retaining of additional management and technical personnel who have the necessary manufacturing expertise. We may not successfully complete the required increase in manufacturing capacity on a timely basis or at all. In addition, all of our manufacturing of the InSpectra StO2 System is conducted at our facilities in Hutchinson, Minnesota. We could encounter problems at these facilities, which could delay or prevent us from maintaining our manufacturing capabilities. Further, if our manufacturing quality control is not adequate, we may experience unanticipated product returns or warranty claims resulting in unforeseen expenses. We may be unable to meet the expected demand for our InSpectra StO2 System, maintain control over our expenses or quality or otherwise adapt to anticipated growth. If we are unable to satisfy demand for our InSpectra StO2 System, market acceptance of our products and our ability to generate revenue could be materially adversely affected. We may fail to comply with manufacturing regulations, or be subject to product recalls, which could hurt our ability to sell and distribute our device and could subject us to fines, injunctions and penalties. Our manufacturing process must comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging and shipping of our device. The FDA enforces its QSR through inspections. We may not pass an inspection, resulting in a shut-down of our manufacturing operations, a recall of our device or the imposition of other sanctions, which could harm our revenues and profitability. In addition, the FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries in which our device may be sold may request and, in some cases, require the recall of our device in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. Further, our key component suppliers may fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements. Any failure to comply with the QSR by us, any failure by our suppliers to comply with regulatory requirements applicable to them or any product recall could harm product sales and may subject us to fines, injunctions and penalties and damage our business. We face the risk of product liability claims if the InSpectra StO2 System fails to perform, and we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. The business of our BioMeasurement Division exposes us to the risk of product liability claims inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical devices. Software defects in the monitor or other performance problems in the system could result in the system’s failure to monitor tissue oxygenation accurately, which would subject us to product liability claims, and we may be subject to claims even if a medical failure is due to the actions of medical personnel using our product. Although we have product liability and clinical trial liability insurance that we believe is appropriate, this insurance is subject to 15 Table of Contents deductibles and coverage limitations. Our current product liability insurance may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, or may not be adequate to cover any successful product liability claims. A product liability claim, recall or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These liabilities also could prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts. Defending a product liability claim, regardless of merit, could be costly, could divert management’s attention from our business and might result in adverse publicity, which could adversely impact our business and financial performance. GENERAL Our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. Our management is required to provide our shareholders a report on our internal controls over financial reporting including an assessment of the effectiveness of these controls to provide reasonable assurance a material misstatement did not occur in our financial statements. Our management has identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to deferred tax assets and liabilities, which is discussed in Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a result, our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2007 was not effective. While the material weakness did not result in material changes to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended September 30, 2007, it could have had such an effect. We have taken steps to remediate the identified material weakness and to enhance our internal control over financial reporting. While our management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we cannot assure you that our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Other deficiencies may occur in the future. Such deficiencies, particularly a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, could adversely affect our financial results, the market price of our common stock and our reputation. We may have to invest a significant amount of funds over the next several years to achieve our long-term growth objectives. Our business will require significant funds over the next several years. We would likely use these funds for capital expenditures, research and development, debt service and working capital. Our Disk Drive Components Division is highly capital intensive. Our total capital expenditures for both of our divisions were $102,239,000 in 2007, $247,754,000 in 2006 and $197,123,000 in 2005. We currently anticipate spending $75,000,000 on capital expenditures during 2008. In addition, our total research and development expenses for both of our divisions were approximately $55,245,000, or 8% of net sales in 2007, and we expect that they will be approximately 6% of net sales in 2008. Our 2007 Disk Drive Components Division capital expenditures and research and development expenses were primarily for additions to both TSA suspension and TSA+ suspension manufacturing capacity, tooling, facilities and new process technology and capability improvements. Our capital expenditures for the Disk Drive Components Division are planned based on anticipated customer demand for our suspension assembly products, market demand for disk drives, process improvements to be incorporated in our manufacturing operations and the rate at which our customers adopt new generations of higher performance disk drives and next-generation read/write technology and head sizes which may require new or improved process technologies. We manage our capital spending to reflect the capacity that will be needed to meet disk drive industry customer forecasts. However, existing work in process with vendors and lengthy lead times sometimes prevent us from adjusting these capital expenditures to match near-term demand. This can result in underutilization of capacity, which could lower gross profit. We expect to fund capital expenditures with cash generated from operations, our current cash, cash equivalents, securities available for sale, our credit facility or additional financing as needed. We currently have outstanding $225,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 3.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2026 (the “3.25% Notes”) and $150,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 2.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2010 (the “2.25% Notes”). We may pursue additional debt or equity financing or other forms of financing to supplement our current capital resources, if needed, in 2008 and beyond. Our ability to obtain additional financing will depend upon a number of factors, including our future performance and financial results and general economic and capital market conditions. We may not be able to maintain adequate capital or raise additional capital on reasonable terms or at all, if needed. 16 Table of Contents The following factors could affect our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all: • our results of operations; • general economic conditions and conditions in the disk drive industry; • the perception in the capital markets of our business; • our ratio of debt to equity; • our financial condition; • our business prospects; and • changes in interest rates. Our ability to execute our long-term strategy may depend on our ability to obtain additional long-term debt and equity capital. We have no commitments for additional borrowings, other than our existing $50,000,000 credit facility with LaSalle Bank National Association, or for sales of equity, other than under our existing employee benefit plans. We cannot determine the precise amount and timing of our funding needs at this time. We may be unable to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we fail to comply with certain covenants relating to our indebtedness, we may need to refinance our indebtedness to repay it. We also may need to refinance our indebtedness at maturity. We may not be able to obtain additional capital on favorable terms to refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other measures. We may not, however, be able to obtain rights to protect our technology. In addition, competitors may be able to develop similar technology independently. Our success in the disk drive industry depends in large part on trade secrets relating to our proprietary manufacturing processes. Our BioMeasurement Division is engaged in a market where third parties have significant existing patent portfolios. We seek to protect trade secrets and our other proprietary technology in part by requiring each of our employees to enter into non-disclosure, assignment and non-competition agreements. In these agreements, the employee agrees to maintain the confidentiality of all of our proprietary information and, subject to certain exceptions, to assign to us all rights in any proprietary information or technology made or contributed by the employee during his or her employment. In addition, we regularly enter into non-disclosure agreements with third parties, such as consultants, strategic suppliers and customers. These agreements may, however, be breached, and we may not have an adequate remedy for any such breach. In addition, our competitors may otherwise learn or independently develop our trade secrets. We believe that the patents we hold and may obtain are valuable, but that they will not independently determine our success. Moreover, we may not receive patents for our pending patent applications, and our issued patents may not be broad enough to protect our technology adequately. Our future technology may not be protected, and any patent issued to us may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or infringed. In addition, we have only limited patent rights outside the United States, and the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In the past, in connection with our disk drive industry business, we have entered into licensing and cross-licensing agreements relating to certain of our patents and patent applications allowing some of our competitors to produce products similar to ours in return for royalty payments and/or cross-license rights. In November 2001, we entered into cross-license agreements with three suspension assembly suppliers, and in October 2003, we entered into an additional cross-licensing agreement with an additional suspension assembly supplier, enabling each of them to offer customers in the disk drive industry TSA suspension assemblies based on our proprietary technology. The agreements also include cross-licenses to certain existing and future suspension assembly technology. Should these competitors become successful at producing TSA suspension assemblies in high volume, our demand could be reduced and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We and certain users of our disk drive industry products have received, and may receive, communications from third parties asserting patents against us or our customers that may relate to certain of our manufacturing equipment or to our products or to products that include our products as a component. In addition, we and certain of our disk drive industry customers have been sued on patents having claims closely related to disk drive industry products we sell. If any third party makes a valid infringement claim against us and we are unable to obtain a license on terms acceptable to us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We expect that, as the number of patents issued in 17 Table of Contents connection with our disk drive industry business continues to increase, the volume of intellectual property claims made against us could increase. We may need to engage in litigation to: • enforce patents issued or licensed to us; • protect trade secrets or know-how owned by us; or • determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the intellectual property rights of others. We have litigated claims against a competitive disk drive industry supplier alleging infringement of our patents. We could incur substantial costs in other such litigation or other similar legal actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, frequent and extensive litigation and administrative proceedings over patent and other intellectual property rights are hallmarks of the medical technology industry, and this litigation is expensive, complex and lengthy, and its outcome is difficult to predict. Medical technology patent litigation may result in significant royalty or other payments or injunctions that may prevent the sale of our product and significantly divert the attention of our BioMeasurement Division technical and management personnel. We cannot be certain that we will successfully defend our patents from infringement or claims of invalidity or unenforceability, or that we will successfully defend against allegations of infringement of third-party patents. We have been named as a defendant in, and are the subject of, certain legal proceedings which may result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. As described in “Legal Proceedings” below, a federal securities class action suit was filed naming our company and certain of our officers and directors as co-defendants. The suit was dismissed with prejudice by the district court and the dismissal has been appealed to the federal appellate court where it remains pending. A related derivative action also was filed naming our company, as a nominal defendant, all of our present directors and one of our officers as co-defendants, but it was dismissed without prejudice in April 2006. We were informed on May 2, 2007, that the SEC has opened an investigation into possible federal securities law violations by our company, our officers, directors, employees and others, during 2005 and 2006. The investigation includes the matters alleged in the federal securities class action litigation described above. We do not know when or how the investigation might be concluded. We are not able to predict the ultimate outcome of the litigation or investigation. As described in “Legal Proceedings” below, we have also been named as a defendant in a class action suit brought by current and former production workers. It is possible that any of these matters could be resolved adversely to us, could result in substantial costs and could divert management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business. Risks associated with legal liability often are difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. While we maintain director and officer insurance, the amount of insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover a claim and the continued availability of this insurance cannot be assured. We may in the future be the target of additional proceedings, and these proceedings may result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our deferred tax assets, and any difference between our estimates and actual results in those areas could adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. Estimates of our income tax provision, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets are subject to uncertainty due to the use of estimates, significant management judgment and possible examination by applicable jurisdictions. Valuation allowances arise due to the uncertainty of realizing the benefits of certain tax credits and net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards before they expire, and are based on our historical taxable income and our estimates of future taxable income in each jurisdiction in which we operate. At September 30, 2007 and September 24, 2006 we had valuation allowances of $6,827,000 and $5,267,000, respectively, related primarily to certain tax credits and the uncertainty of realizing these benefits before they expire due to certain limitations. In the event that actual results differ from estimates, our financial position and results of operations could be negatively impacted. 