ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND OUR PROPERTIES Our retail properties are concentrated in the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States, and adverse market conditions in that region might affect the ability of our tenants to make lease payments and to renew leases, which might reduce the amount of income generated by our properties. Our retail properties currently are concentrated in the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States, including several properties in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania area. To the extent adverse conditions affecting retail properties, such as economic conditions, population trends and changing demographics, income, sales and property tax laws, availability and costs of financing, construction costs and weather conditions, are particularly adverse in Pennsylvania or in the Mid-Atlantic region, our results of operations will be affected to a greater degree. If the sales of stores operating at our properties were to decline significantly due to adverse conditions, the risk that our tenants, including anchors, will be unable to fulfill the terms of their leases or will enter into bankruptcy might increase. Furthermore, such adverse conditions might affect the timing of lease commitments by new tenants or lease renewals by existing tenants as such parties delay their leasing decisions in order to obtain the most current information possible about trends in their businesses or industries. If, as a result of prolonged adverse regional conditions, occupancy at our properties decreases or our properties do not generate sufficient income to meet our operating and other expenses, including debt service, our financial position, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make capital expenditures and distributions to shareholders would be adversely affected. Our investments in developing new properties and redeveloping older properties in need of renovation might not yield the returns we anticipate, which would harm our operating results and reduce the amount of funds available for distributions to shareholders. As a component of our growth strategy, we plan to continue to develop new properties and redevelop existing properties, and we might develop or redevelop other projects as opportunities arise. Some of our retail properties were constructed or last renovated more than 10 years ago. Older properties might generate lower rents and might require significant expense for maintenance or renovations to maintain competitiveness, which could harm our results of operations. As of December 31, 2005, we were engaged in, or had developed plans for, the redevelopment of 10 of our 39 mall properties. To the extent we continue current development or redevelopment projects or enter into new development or redevelopment projects, they will be subject to a number of risks, including, among others: • expenditure of money and time on projects that might be significantly delayed or might never be completed; • inability to reach projected occupancy and rental rates and profitability; • inability to obtain mortgage lender, anchor tenant or other property partner approvals, if applicable, for redevelopments; • higher than estimated construction costs, cost overruns and timing delays due to lack of availability of materials and labor, weather conditions and other factors outside our control; • inability to obtain permanent financing upon completion of development or redevelopment activities or to refinance construction loans, which are generally recourse to us; and • inability to obtain, or delays in obtaining, required zoning, occupancy and other governmental approvals. Governmental requirements and local zoning and land use laws restrict our development, redevelopment, expansion and renovation activities. The requirement that our projects comply with these provisions could delay or prevent our continuation or completion of a project. Such delays or prohibitions would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Unanticipated delays or expenses associated with our development or redevelopment projects could result in losses and adversely affect the investment returns from these projects and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We might be unable to manage effectively our rapid growth, our simultaneous redevelopment projects or our new development projects, including any proposed mixed use projects, which might result in disruptions to our business and additional expense. We have experienced rapid growth and we continue to pursue, in an opportunistic and disciplined manner, acquisitions of additional properties or portfolios of properties that meet the investment criteria we apply, given economic, market and other circumstances. We might not be able to adapt our management and operational systems to our larger size and our increased number of retail properties. In November 2003, we completed the acquisition of 26 retail properties (five of which were subsequently sold) through our merger with Crown American Realty Trust (“Crown”) and the acquisition of six shopping malls from The Rouse Company. The Crown merger has required the integration of two large and complex real estate businesses that formerly operated independently. Following the merger and the acquisition of the six malls, the gross leasable area (GLA) of our owned, managed or leased retail properties is significantly greater than it was before those transactions. In 2004, we acquired two additional properties and the remaining minority portion of one property already in our portfolio. In 2005, we acquired three more retail properties and a 50% ownership interest in one additional property. 17 Back to Contents Specific risks for our ongoing operations posed by acquisitions we have completed or that we might complete in the future include: • we might not achieve the expected operating efficiencies, value-creation potential, economies of scale or other benefits of such transactions; • we might not have adequate personnel and financial and other resources to successfully handle our substantially increased operations; • we might not be successful in leasing space in acquired properties; • the combined portfolio might not perform at the level we anticipate; • we might experience difficulties and incur unforeseen expenses in connection with assimilating and retaining employees working at acquired properties, and in assimilating any acquired properties; • we might experience problems and incur unforeseen expenses in connection with upgrading and expanding our systems and processes; and • we might incur unexpected liabilities in connection with the properties and businesses we have acquired. If we fail to successfully integrate any properties, assets or companies we acquire, or fail to handle our increased operations or realize the intended benefits of any such transactions, our financial condition and results of operations, and our ability to make distributions to shareholders at historical levels, if at all, might be adversely affected. In addition, we might not have sufficient management resources to successfully manage our 10 current redevelopment projects simultaneously. Also, some of our development and redevelopment projects currently or in the future might contemplate mixed uses of the properties, including residential, office, and other uses. We might not have all of the necessary or desirable skill sets to manage such projects. The lack of sufficient management resources, or of the necessary skill sets to execute our plans, could prevent us from realizing our expectations with respect to these projects and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The retail real estate industry is highly competitive, and this competition could harm our ability to operate profitably. Competition in the retail real estate industry is intense. We compete with other public and private retail real estate companies, including companies that own or manage malls, power centers, lifestyle centers, strip centers, factory outlet centers, or theme/festival centers and community centers, as well as other commercial real estate developers and real estate owners. We compete with these companies to attract customers to our properties, as well as to attract anchor and in-line store tenants. Our malls and our power and strip centers face competition from similar retail centers, including more recently developed or renovated centers, that are near our retail properties. We also face competition from a variety of different retail formats, including discount or value retailers, home shopping networks, mail order operators, catalogs, telemarketers and internet retailers. This competition could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease space and on the level of rent that we receive. Also, a significant amount of capital has and might continue to provide funding for the development of properties that might compete with our properties. The development of competing retail properties and the related increased competition for tenants might require us to make capital improvements to properties that we would have deferred or would not have otherwise planned to make and affects the occupancy and net operating income of such properties. Any such redevelopments, undertaken individually or collectively, involve costs and expenses that could adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in the retail industry, particularly among retailers that serve as anchor tenants, could adversely affect our results of operations. The income we generate from our retail properties depends in part on the ability of our anchor tenants to attract customers to our properties. The ability of anchor tenants to attract customers to a property has a significant effect on the ability of the property to attract in-line tenants and, consequently, on the revenues generated by the property. In recent years, the retail industry and retailers that serve as anchor tenants have experienced or are currently experiencing operational changes, consolidation and other ownership changes. In 2005, Federated Department Stores, Inc., operator of stores including Bloomingdale’s and Macy’s, acquired The May Department Stores Company, operator of stores including Marshall Field’s, Filene’s, Hecht’s and Strawbridge’s. Sears, Roebuck & Co. and K-mart Holding Corporation also merged in 2005. These combinations are expected to offer these companies even greater economies of scale, increasing their leverage with suppliers and enabling them to be more efficient. The mergers are intended to help department stores better compete with mass discounters and specialty stores. Such transactions and any similar transactions in the future might result in the restructuring of these companies, however, which could include closures or sales of anchor stores operated by them. For example, Federated has announced that it intends to close some of its stores at properties where it now operates two or more stores. In particular, Federated intends to close the Strawbridge’s stores it owns at the following malls in the PREIT portfolio: Cherry Hill, Lehigh Valley, Springfield and Willow Grove Park. Federated has also announced plans to close the Strawbridge’s store at The Gallery at Market East I. The closure of an anchor store might have a negative effect on a property. In addition, for anchors that lease their space, the loss of any rental payments from an anchor, a lease termination by an anchor for any reason, a failure by that anchor to occupy the premises, or any other cessation of operations by an anchor could result in lease terminations or reductions in rent by other tenants of the same property whose leases permit cancellation or rent reduction if an anchor’s lease is terminated or it otherwise ceases occupancy or operations. In that event, we might be unable to re-lease the vacated space in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, the leases of some anchors might permit the anchor to transfer its lease to another retailer. The transfer to a new anchor could cause customer traffic in the property to decrease or to be composed of different types of customers, which could reduce 18 Back to Contents the income generated by that property. A transfer of a lease to a new anchor also could allow other tenants to make reduced rental payments or to terminate their leases at the property, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Rising operating expenses could reduce our cash flow and funds available for future distributions. Our properties are, and any properties we acquire in the future will be, subject to operating risks common to real estate in general, any or all of which might negatively affect us. The properties will be subject to increases in real estate and other tax rates, energy and other utility costs, operating expenses, insurance costs, repair and maintenance costs and administrative expenses. Although some of our properties are leased on terms that require tenants to pay a portion of the expenses associated with the property, we might not be able to pass along the increased costs, and renewals of leases or new leases might not be negotiated on that basis, in which event we will have to pay those costs. If we are unable to lease properties on a basis requiring the tenants to pay all or some of the expenses associated with the property, or if tenants fail to pay required tax, utility and other impositions, we could be required to pay those costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Similarly, if a property is not fully occupied, we would be required to pay a portion of the expenses that are typically paid by our tenants. We cannot assure you that increases in these expenses will not lead our tenants, or prospective tenants, to seek retail space elsewhere. If operating expenses increase, the availability of other comparable retail space in our specific geographic markets might limit our ability to pass these increases through to our tenants, which could adversely affect our results of operations and limit our ability to make distributions to shareholders. We face increasing competition for the acquisition of properties and other assets, which might impede our ability to make future acquisitions or might increase the cost of these acquisitions. We compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities for acquisitions of malls, other retail properties and other prime development sites, including institutional pension funds, other REITs and other owner-operators of retail properties. These competitors might drive up the price we must pay for properties, other assets or other companies we seek to acquire or might themselves succeed in acquiring those properties, assets or companies. In addition, our potential acquisition targets might find our competitors to be more attractive suitors because they might have greater resources, might be willing to pay more, or might have a more compatible operating philosophy. In particular, larger REITs might enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital, a better ability to raise capital, and enhanced operating efficiencies. Also, the number of entities, as well as the available capital resources competing for suitable investment properties or desirable development sites, have increased and might continue to increase, resulting in increased demand for these assets and therefore increased prices paid for them. We might not succeed in acquiring retail properties or development sites that we seek, or, if we pay higher prices for properties, or generate lower cash flow from an acquired property than we expect, our investment returns will be reduced, which will adversely affect the value of our securities. We might not be successful in identifying suitable acquisitions that meet the criteria we apply, given economic, market or other circumstances, which might impede our growth. Integral to our business strategy have been our strategic acquisitions of retail properties. Our ability to expand by means of acquisitions requires us to identify suitable acquisition candidates or investment opportunities that meet the criteria we apply, given economic, market or other circumstances, and are compatible with our growth strategy. We analyze potential acquisitions on a property-by-property and market-by-market basis. We might not be successful in identifying suitable properties or other assets in our existing geographic markets or in markets new to us that meet the acquisition criteria we apply, given economic, market or other circumstances, or in consummating acquisitions or investments on satisfactory terms. An inability to identify or consummate acquisitions could reduce the number of acquisitions we complete and impede our growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Any tenant bankruptcies or leasing delays or terminations we encounter could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We receive a substantial portion of our operating income as rent under long-term leases with tenants. At any time, any tenant having space in one or more of our properties could experience a downturn in its business that might weaken its financial condition. These tenants might defer or fail to make rental payments when due, delay lease commencement, voluntarily vacate the premises or declare bankruptcy, which could result in the termination of the tenant’s lease, and could result in material losses 19 Back to Contents to us and harm to our results of operations. Also, it might take time to terminate leases of underperforming or nonperforming tenants and we might incur costs to remove such tenants. Some of our tenants occupy stores at multiple locations in our portfolio, and so the effect of any bankruptcy of those tenants might be more significant to us than the bankruptcy of other tenants. See “Item 2. Properties – Major Tenants.” In addition, under many of our leases, our tenants pay rent based on a percentage of their sales. Accordingly, declines in these tenants’ sales directly affect our results of operations. Also, if tenants are unable to comply with the terms of our leases, we might modify lease terms in ways that are less favorable to us. In 2004, a number of tenants that leased space from us filed for bankruptcy protection, including KB Toys, Inc. and Gadzooks Inc. In 2006, Musicland, which operates the Sam Goody and Suncoast Motion Picture chains, filed for bankruptcy protection, as has G&G Retail, operator of Rave and Rave Girl. Also, Casual Corner is being liquidated. If a tenant files for bankruptcy, the tenant might have the right to reject and terminate its leases, and we cannot be sure that it will affirm its leases and continue to make rental payments in a timely manner. A bankruptcy filing by or relating to one of our tenants would bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant, or from their property, unless we receive an order permitting us to do so from the bankruptcy court. In addition, we cannot evict a tenant solely because of its bankruptcy. If a lease is assumed by the tenant in bankruptcy, all pre-bankruptcy balances due under the lease must be paid to us in full. However, if a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for damages. If a bankrupt tenant vacates a space, it might not do so in a timely manner, and we might be unable to re-lease the vacated space. Any unsecured claim we hold might be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims, and there are restrictions under bankruptcy laws that limit the amount of the claim we can make if a lease is rejected. As a result, it is likely that we would recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims we hold, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. These tenant bankruptcies and liquidations have adversely affected our financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be harmed if Ronald Rubin, our chairman and chief executive officer, or other members of our senior management team terminate their employment with us. Our future success depends, to a meaningful extent, upon the continued services of Ronald Rubin, our chairman and chief executive officer, and the services of our corporate management team (including the four-person Office of the Chairman that, in addition to Ronald Rubin, consists of George F. Rubin, Edward Glickman and Joseph Coradino). These executives have substantial experience in managing, developing and acquiring retail real estate. Although we have entered into employment agreements with Ronald Rubin and certain other members of our corporate management team, they could elect to terminate those agreements at any time. In addition, although we have purchased a key man life insurance policy in the amount of $5 million to cover Ronald Rubin, we cannot assure you that this would compensate us for the loss of his services. The loss of services of one or more members of our corporate management team could harm our business and our prospects. We have invested and expect to invest in the future in partnerships with third parties to acquire or develop properties, and we might not control the management, redevelopment or disposition of these properties, or we might be exposed to other risks. We have invested and expect to invest in the future as a partner in the acquisition of existing properties or the development of new properties, in contrast to acquiring properties or developing projects on our own. Entering into partnerships with third parties involves risks not present in the case where we act alone, in that we might not have exclusive control over the acquisition, development, redevelopment, financing, leasing, management, budget-setting and other aspects of the property or project. These limitations might adversely affect our ability to develop, redevelop or sell these properties at the most advantageous time for us. Also, there might be restrictive provisions and rights that apply to sales or transfers of interests in our partnership properties, which might require us to make decisions about buying or selling interests at a disadvantageous time. Some of our retail properties are owned by partnerships in which we are a general partner. Under the terms of the partnership agreements, major decisions, such as a sale, lease, refinancing, redevelopment, expansion or rehabilitation of a property, or a change of property manager, require the consent of all partners. Accordingly, because decisions must be unanimous, necessary actions might be delayed significantly and it might be difficult or even impossible to remove a partner that is serving as the property manager. We might not be able to favorably resolve any issues which arise with respect to such decisions, or we might have to provide financial or other inducements to our partners to obtain such resolution. In cases where we are not the controlling partner or where we are only one of the general partners, there are many decisions that do not relate to fundamental matters that do not require our approval and that we do not control. Also, in cases in which we serve as managing general partner 20 Back to Contents of the partnerships that own our properties, we might have certain fiduciary responsibilities to the other partners in those partnerships. Business disagreements with partners might arise. We might incur substantial expenses in resolving these disputes. To preserve our investment, we might be required to make commitments to or on behalf of a partnership during a dispute that might not be credited or repaid in full. Moreover, we cannot assure you that our resolution of a dispute with a partner will be on terms that are favorable to us. Other risks of investments in partnerships with third parties include: • partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, which might necessitate our funding their share to preserve our investment; • partners might have business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals; • partners might be in a position to take action contrary to our policies or objectives; • we might incur liability for the actions of our partners; and • third-party managers might not be sensitive to publicly-traded company or REIT tax compliance matters. If we suffer losses that are not covered by insurance or that are in excess of our insurance coverage limits, we could lose invested capital and anticipated profits. There are some types of losses, including those of a catastrophic nature, such as losses due to wars, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution and environmental matters, as well as lease and contract claims, that are generally uninsurable or not economically insurable, or might be subject to insurance coverage limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. If one of these events occurred to, or caused the destruction of, one or more of our properties, we could lose both our invested capital and anticipated profits from that property. We also might remain obligated for any mortgage or other financial obligation related to the property. In addition, if we are unable to obtain insurance in the future at acceptable levels and at a reasonable cost, the possibility of losses in excess of our insurance coverage might increase and we might not be able to comply with covenants under our debt agreements, which could adversely affect our financial condition. If any of our properties were to experience a significant, uninsured loss, it could seriously disrupt our operations, delay our receipt of revenue and result in large expenses to repair or rebuild the property. These types of events could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to make distributions to shareholders. We might incur costs to comply with environmental laws, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances, regulations and case law, an owner, former owner or operator of real estate might be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances present at, on, under, in or released from its property, regardless of whether the owner, operator or other responsible party knew of or was at fault for the release or presence of hazardous substances. They also might be liable to the government or to third parties for substantial property damage, investigation costs or clean up costs. Even if more than one person might have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws might be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs the government incurs in connection with the contamination. Contamination might adversely affect the owner’s ability to sell or lease real estate or borrow with real estate as collateral. In connection with our ownership, operation, management, development and redevelopment of properties, or any other properties we acquire in the future, we might be potentially liable under these laws and might incur costs in responding to these liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. See “Item 1. Business—Environmental.” 21 Back to Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDEBTEDNESS AND OUR FINANCING We have substantial debt, which might increase, as well as obligations to pay dividends on our preferred shares, and we require significant cash flows to satisfy these obligations. If we are unable to satisfy those obligations, we might be forced to dispose of one or more properties and there could be other negative consequences. We use a substantial amount of debt to finance our business, and we might incur additional debt under our Credit Facility or otherwise in order to finance acquisitions, to develop or redevelop properties or for other general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2005, we had an aggregate consolidated indebtedness outstanding excluding debt premium of approximately $1,769 million, approximately $1,332 million of which was secured by our properties. Also at December 31, 2005, we had $437 million of unsecured indebtedness that is recourse to us, PREIT Associates and certain of our consolidated subsidiaries. This indebtedness does not include our proportionate share of indebtedness of our partnership properties. If our leverage increases, our debt service costs and our risk of defaulting on our indebtedness might increase. We are also obligated to pay a quarterly dividend of $1.375 per share to the holders of the 2,475,000 11% preferred shares that we issued in connection with our November 2003 merger with Crown American Realty Trust. If we do not have sufficient cash flow from operations, we might not be able to make all required payments of principal and interest on our debt or to pay distributions on our securities at historical rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Much of our outstanding indebtedness represents obligations of our operating partnership, PREIT Associates, L.P., and entities that we own or control that hold title to our properties. We have mortgaged many of our properties to secure payment of this indebtedness. If we were unable to make the required payments on this indebtedness, a lender could foreclose upon the mortgaged property and receive an assignment of rents and leases or pursue other remedies. Much of our indebtedness does not require significant principal payments prior to maturity, and we might obtain similar financing terms in future transactions. If our debt cannot be paid, refinanced or extended at maturity on acceptable terms, or at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties on unfavorable terms, which might result in losses to us and which might adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to shareholders. Our substantial obligations arising from our indebtedness and the dividends payable on our preferred shares could have negative consequences to our shareholders, including: • requiring us to use a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest and principal payments on our debt and dividend payments on our preferred shares rather than for other purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures or dividends on our common shares; • harming our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development and redevelopment activities or other general corporate purposes; • limiting our flexibility to plan for or react to changes in business and economic conditions; • making us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • limiting our ability to enter into hedging transactions with counterparties. As of December 31, 2005, we had $380.8 million of variable rate debt. Increases in interest rates will increase our interest expense on the variable rate debt we have outstanding from time to time. Also, rising interest rates might reduce our ability to refinance maturing fixed rate debt on favorable terms, or at all. Increased interest expense would adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to shareholders. 22 Back to Contents We might not be able to obtain capital required to finance our business initiatives. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code generally require the distribution to shareholders of 90% of a REIT’s net taxable income, excluding net capital gains, which generally leaves insufficient funds to finance major initiatives internally. Due to these requirements, we fund most of our long-term capital requirements, such as for acquisitions of properties or other assets, scheduled debt maturities and redevelopments, renovations, expansions and other non-recurring capital improvements, through long-term secured and unsecured indebtedness and, when appropriate, the issuance of additional equity securities. Our ability to finance our growth using these sources depends, in part, on the availability of credit or of equity capital to us at the time or times we need it. Over the course of the business cycle, there might be times when lenders and equity investors might show less interest in lending to us or investing in our securities. Although we believe, based on current market conditions, that we will be able to finance our business initiatives for the foreseeable future, financing might not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Liquidity and Capital Resources of the Company” for information about our available sources of funds. Our Credit Facility has a term that expires in January 2009, and we have an option to extend the term for an additional 14 months, provided there is no event of default at that time. If we are unable to borrow under our Credit Facility or to arrange for alternative financing, we might be unable to acquire or develop properties, redevelop our existing properties or finance other corporate activities, and our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Some of our properties are owned or ground-leased by subsidiaries that we created solely to own or ground-lease those properties. The mortgaged properties and related assets are restricted solely for the payment of the related loans and are not available to pay our other debts, which could impair our ability to borrow, which in turn could harm our business. The profitability of each partnership we enter into with third parties that has short-term financing or debt requiring a balloon payment is dependent on the availability of long-term financing on satisfactory terms. If satisfactory long-term financing is not available, we might have to rely on other sources of short-term financing or equity contributions. Although these partnerships are not wholly-owned by us, we might be required to pay the full amount of any obligation of the partnership that we have guaranteed in whole or in part, or we might elect to pay all of the obligations of such a partnership to protect our equity interest in its properties and assets. This could cause us to utilize a substantial portion of our liquidity sources or funds from operations and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and reduce amounts available for distribution to shareholders. The covenants in our Credit Facility might restrict our operations or acquisition activities, which might harm our ability to pursue new business initiatives and have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our Credit Facility currently requires our operating partnership, PREIT Associates, L.P., to satisfy certain affirmative and negative covenants and to meet numerous financial tests, including tests relating to our leverage, interest coverage and tangible net worth. These covenants could restrict our ability to pursue acquisitions, limit our ability to respond to changes and competition, and could reduce our flexibility in conducting our operations by limiting our ability to borrow money, sell or place liens on assets, repurchase securities, make capital expenditures or engage in acquisitions or mergers. If we cannot continue to satisfy these covenants and meet these tests, there is a risk that we could default under the Credit Facility. If we default under the Credit Facility, the lenders could require us to repay the debt immediately, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Payments by our direct and indirect subsidiaries of dividends and distributions to us might be adversely affected by prior payments to the creditors of these subsidiaries. We own substantially all of our assets through our interest in our operating partnership, PREIT Associates. PREIT Associates holds substantially all of its properties and assets through subsidiaries, including subsidiary partnerships and limited liability companies. PREIT Associates thus derives substantially all of its cash flow from cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and we, in turn, derive substantially all of our cash flow from cash distributions to us by PREIT Associates. The direct and indirect subsidiaries must make payments on the subsidiaries’ obligations to their creditors, when due and payable, before a subsidiary may make distributions to us. Thus, PREIT Associates’ ability to make distributions to its partners, including us, depends on its subsidiaries’ ability first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors. Similarly, our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common and preferred shares depends on PREIT Associates’ ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and then to make distributions to us. If the subsidiaries were unable to make payments to their creditors when due and payable, or if the 23 Back to Contents subsidiaries had insufficient funds to both make payments to creditors and distribute funds to PREIT Associates, we might not have sufficient cash to satisfy our obligations or make distributions to our shareholders. In addition, we will have the right to participate in any distribution of the assets of any of our direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency of the subsidiary only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors, of the subsidiary are satisfied. Our common shareholders, in turn, will have the right to participate in any distribution of our assets upon our liquidation, reorganization or insolvency only after the claims of our creditors, including trade creditors, and preferred security holders, if any, are satisfied. Our hedging arrangements might not be successful in limiting our risk exposure, and we might be required to incur expenses in connection with these arrangements or their termination that could harm our results of operations or financial condition. We use interest rate hedging arrangements to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility, but these arrangements might expose us to additional risks. Developing an effective interest rate risk strategy is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. We cannot assure you that our hedging activities will have a positive impact on our results of operations or financial condition. We might be subject to additional costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs, if we terminate them. In addition, although our interest rate risk management policy establishes minimum credit ratings for counterparties, this does not eliminate the risk that a counterparty might fail to honor its obligations. RISKS RELATED TO THE REAL ESTATE INDUSTRY We are subject to risks that affect the retail real estate environment generally. Our business and our properties are subject to certain risks that can affect the ability of our retail properties to generate sufficient revenues to meet our operating and other expenses, including debt service, to make capital expenditures and to make distributions to our shareholders. Changes in a number of factors can decrease the income generated by a retail property, including a downturn in the national, regional or local economy or consumer confidence or spending, which could result from plant closings, local industry slowdowns, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters and other factors; a weakening of local real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, retail space or retail goods, and the availability and creditworthiness of current and prospective tenants; changes in perceptions by retailers or shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of a retail property; and perceived changes in the convenience and quality of competing retail properties and other retailing options such as internet retailers. Income from retail properties and retail property values are also affected by interest rate levels and the availability and cost of financing, and by applicable laws and regulations, including tax and zoning laws, among other factors. Changes in one or more of these factors can lead to a decrease in the revenues generated by our properties and can have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly affect our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition. Substantially all of our total consolidated assets consist of investments in real properties. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to quickly sell one or more properties in our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand for space, that are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms we set, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. 24 Back to Contents Before a property can be sold, we might be required to make expenditures to correct defects or to make improvements. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements, and if we cannot do so, we might not be able to sell the property, or might be required to sell the property on unfavorable terms. In acquiring a property, we might agree to provisions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as limitations on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could significantly harm our financial condition and results of operations. Possible terrorist activity or other acts of violence or war could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Future terrorist attacks in the United States, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and other acts of terrorism or war, might result in declining economic activity, which could harm the demand for goods and services offered by our tenants and the value of our properties and might adversely affect the value of an investment in our securities. A decrease in retail demand could make it difficult for us to renew or re-lease our properties at lease rates equal to or above historical rates. Terrorist activities also could directly affect the value of our properties through damage, destruction or loss, and the availability of insurance for such acts, or of insurance generally, might be lower, or cost more, which could increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that our tenants are affected by future attacks, their businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to meet obligations under their existing leases. These acts might erode business and consumer confidence and spending, and might result in increased volatility in national and international financial markets and economies. Any one of these events might decrease demand for real estate, decrease or delay the occupancy of our new or redeveloped properties, and limit our access to capital or increase our cost of raising capital. RISKS RELATING TO OUR ORGANIZATION AND STRUCTURE Our organizational documents contain provisions that might discourage a takeover of us and depress our share price. Our organizational documents contain provisions that might have an anti-takeover effect and inhibit a change in our management and the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our securities. These provisions include: (1) There are ownership limits and restrictions on transferability in our trust agreement. In order to protect our status as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares (after taking into account options to acquire shares) may be owned, directly or constructively, by five or fewer individuals, and the shares must be beneficially owned by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year. To assist us in satisfying these tests, subject to some exceptions, our trust agreement prohibits any shareholder from owning more than 9.9% of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest (exclusive of preferred shares) or more than 9.9% of any class or series of preferred shares. The trust agreement also prohibits transfers of shares that would cause a shareholder to exceed the 9.9% limit or cause us to be beneficially owned by fewer than 100 persons. Our Board of Trustees might exempt a person from the 9.9% ownership limit if it receives a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service or an opinion of counsel or tax accountants that exceeding the 9.9% ownership limit as to that person would not jeopardize our tax status as a REIT. Absent an exemption, this restriction might: • discourage, delay or prevent a tender offer or other transactions or a change in control or management that might involve a premium price for our shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders; or • compel a shareholder who had acquired more than 9.9% of our shares to transfer the additional shares to a trust and, as a result, to forfeit the benefits of owning the additional shares. (2) Our trust agreement permits our Board of Trustees to issue preferred shares with terms that might discourage a third party from acquiring our Company. Our trust agreement permits our Board of Trustees to create and issue multiple classes and series of preferred shares, and classes and series of preferred shares having preferences to the existing shares on any matter, without a vote of shareholders, including preferences in rights in liquidation or to dividends and option rights, and other securities having conversion or option rights. Also, the board might authorize the creation and issuance 25 Back to Contents by our subsidiaries and affiliates of securities having conversion and option rights in respect of our shares. Our trust agreement further provides that the terms of such rights or other securities might provide for disparate treatment of certain holders or groups of holders of such rights or other securities. The issuance of such rights or other securities could have the effect of, discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control over us, even if a change in control were in our shareholders’ interest or would give the shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our securities. (3) Our staggered Board of Trustees might affect the ability of a shareholder to take control of our Company. Our Board of Trustees has three classes of trustees. The term of office of one class expires each year. Trustees for each class are elected for three year terms upon the expiration of the term of the respective class. The staggered terms for trustees might affect the ability of a shareholder to take control of us, even if a change in control were in the best interests of our shareholders. Limited partners of PREIT Associates, L.P. may vote on certain fundamental changes we propose, which could inhibit a change in control that might otherwise result in a premium to our shareholders. Our assets generally are held through our operating partnership, PREIT Associates. We currently hold a majority of the outstanding units of limited partnership interest in PREIT Associates. However, PREIT Associates might, from time to time, issue additional units to third parties in exchange for contributions of property to PREIT Associates. These issuances will dilute our percentage ownership of PREIT Associates. Units generally do not carry a right to vote on any matter voted on by our shareholders, although limited partnership interests might, under certain circumstances, be redeemed for our shares. However, before the date on which at least half of the units issued on September 30, 1997 in connection with our acquisition of The Rubin Organization have been redeemed, the holders of units issued on September 30, 1997 are entitled to vote such units together with our shareholders, as a single class, on any proposal to merge, consolidate or sell substantially all of our assets. Our partnership interest in PREIT Associates is not included for purposes of determining when half of the partnership interests issued on September 30, 1997 have been redeemed, nor are they counted as votes. These existing rights could inhibit a change in control that might otherwise result in a premium to our shareholders. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will not agree to extend comparable rights to other limited partners in PREIT Associates. We have entered into tax protection agreements for the benefit of certain former property owners, including some limited partners of PREIT Associates, L.P., that might limit our ability to sell some of our properties that we might otherwise want to sell, which could harm our financial condition. As the general partner of PREIT Associates, L.P., we have agreed to indemnify certain former property owners, including some who have become limited partners of PREIT Associates, L.P., against tax liability that they might incur if we sell a property acquired from them within a certain number of years after we acquired it in a taxable transaction. In some cases, these agreements might make it uneconomical for us to sell these properties, even in circumstances in which it otherwise would be advantageous to do so, which could harm our ability to address liquidity needs in the future or otherwise harm our financial condition. Some of our officers and trustees have interests in properties that we manage and therefore might have conflicts of interest that could adversely affect our business. We provide management, leasing and development services for partnerships and other ventures in which some of our officers and trustees, including Ronald Rubin, a trustee and our chairman and chief executive officer, and George F. Rubin, a trustee and a vice chairman, have indirect ownership interests. In addition, we lease substantial office space from an entity in which some of our officers, including the Rubins, have an interest. Our officers who have interests in the other parties to these transactions have a conflict of interest in deciding to enter into these agreements and in negotiating their terms, which could result in our obtaining terms that are less favorable than we might otherwise obtain, which could adversely affect our business. 26 Back to Contents RISKS RELATING TO OUR SECURITIES Many factors, including changes in interest rates and the negative perceptions of the retail sector generally, can have an adverse effect on the market value of our securities. As is the case with other publicly traded companies, a number of factors might adversely affect the price of our securities, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • Increases in market interest rates, relative to the dividend yield on our shares. If market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of our securities might require a higher yield. Higher market interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for us to distribute to shareholders and, to the contrary, would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our shares to go down. • Anticipated benefit of an investment in our securities as compared to investment in securities of companies in other industries (including benefits associated with tax treatment of dividends and distributions). • Perception by market professionals of REITs generally and REITs in the retail market segment in particular. Our portfolio of properties consists almost entirely of retail properties and we expect to continue to focus primarily on acquiring retail centers in the future. • Perception by market participants of our potential for payment of cash distributions and for growth. • Level of institutional investor and research analyst interest in our securities. • Relatively low trading volumes in securities of REITs. • Our results of operations and financial condition. • Investor confidence in the stock market generally. The market value of our common shares is based primarily upon the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings, funds from operations and cash distributions. Consequently, our common shares might trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per common share. If our future earnings, funds from operations or cash distributions are less than expected, it is likely that the market price of our common and preferred shares will diminish. TAX RISKS If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT, our shareholders would be adversely affected. We believe that we have qualified as a REIT since our inception and intend to continue to qualify as a REIT. To qualify as a REIT, however, we must comply with certain highly technical and complex requirements under the Internal Revenue Code, which is more complicated in the case of a REIT such as ours that holds its assets primarily in partnership form. We cannot be certain we have complied with these requirements because there are very limited judicial and administrative interpretations of these provisions, and even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. In addition, facts and circumstances that might be beyond our control might affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. We cannot assure you that new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not change the tax laws significantly with respect to our qualification as a REIT or with respect to the federal income tax consequences of qualification. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT, we would be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Also, unless the Internal Revenue Service granted us relief under statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we first failed to qualify. The additional tax incurred at regular corporate rates would significantly reduce the cash flow available for distribution to shareholders and for debt service. In addition, we would no longer be required to make any distributions to 27 Back to Contents shareholders. If there were a determination that we do not qualify as a REIT, there would be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and there could be a material reduction in the value of our common and preferred shares. We might be unable to comply with the strict income distribution requirements applicable to REITs, or compliance with such requirements could adversely affect our financial condition. To obtain the favorable tax treatment associated with qualifying as a REIT, we are required each year to distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our net taxable income. In addition, we are subject to a tax on any undistributed portion of our income at regular corporate rates and might also be subject to a 4% excise tax on this undistributed income. We could be required to seek to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the distribution requirements that are necessary to achieve the tax benefits associated with qualifying as a REIT, even if conditions are not favorable for borrowing, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 