Item 1A. Risk Factors. The homebuilding industry is cyclical and affected by changes in general economic, real estate and other business conditions that could adversely affect our business or financial results. The homebuilding industry is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in industry conditions, as well as in general and local economic conditions, such as: • employment levels; • availability of financing for homebuyers; • interest rates; • consumer confidence; • levels of new and existing homes for sale; • demographic trends; and • housing demand. These conditions may exist on a national level, like the recent downturn, or may affect some of the regions or markets in which we operate more than others. When adverse conditions affect any of our larger markets, they could have a proportionately greater impact on us than on some other homebuilding companies. 7 Table of Contents An oversupply of alternatives to new homes, including foreclosed homes, homes held for sale by investors and speculators, other existing homes, and rental properties, can also reduce our ability to sell new homes and depress new home prices and reduce our margins on the sale of new homes. High levels of foreclosures and short-sales not only contribute to additional inventory available for sale, but also can reduce appraisal valuations for new homes, potentially resulting in lower sales prices. Continued military deployments, terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or threats to national security, and any corresponding response by the United States or others, or related domestic or international instability, may adversely affect general economic conditions or cause a slowdown of the economy. As a result of the foregoing matters, potential customers may be less willing or able to buy our homes. In the future, our pricing strategies may continue to be limited by market conditions. We may be unable to change the mix of our home offerings, reduce the costs of the homes we build or offer more affordable homes to maintain our gross margins or satisfactorily address changing market conditions in other ways. In addition, cancellations of home sales contracts in backlog may increase as homebuyers choose to not honor their contracts. Our financial services business is closely related to our homebuilding business, as it originates mortgage loans principally to purchasers of the homes we build. A decrease in the demand for our homes because of the foregoing matters may also adversely affect the financial results of this segment of our business. An increase in the default rate on the mortgages we originate may adversely affect our ability to sell the mortgages or the pricing we receive upon the sale of mortgages or may increase our potential exposure regarding those mortgage loan sales. Because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, actual future obligations could differ significantly from our current estimates. The homebuilding industry has recently experienced a significant downturn, and its ultimate effects are uncertain. A renewed deterioration in industry conditions or in the broader economic conditions, whether resulting from a “fiscal cliff” or otherwise, could have adverse effects on our business and financial results. The homebuilding industry experienced a sustained downturn from 2006 through 2011, and it has been one of the most severe housing downturns in U.S. history. Our recovery from the downturn in the housing market has been negatively impacted by its continuing effects, including difficulty in customers’ ability to qualify for mortgage loans, significant drops in home prices and land values, elevated levels of foreclosures and short-sales, all of which severely constrained demand for new homes, and resulted in significant inventory impairments and operating losses. In the event of another downturn in the homebuilding and mortgage lending industries, or if the national economy weakens as a result of the “fiscal cliff” or other causes, we could experience declines in the market value of our inventory and demand for our homes, which could have a significant negative impact on our gross margins from home sales and financial and operating results. Additionally, as a result of recent economic circumstances, we may be subject to increased counterparty risks, which may include, among others, banks under our letter of credit facilities and mortgage purchasers who may not be willing or able to perform on obligations to us. To the extent a third-party is unable to meet its obligations to us, our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows could be negatively impacted. These challenging conditions are complex and interrelated. We cannot predict their occurrence or severity, nor can we provide assurance that our responses would be successful. 8 Table of Contents Increased competition levels in the homebuilding and mortgage lending industries could result in lower net home orders, deliveries and decreases in the average selling prices of sold and delivered homes, which would have a negative impact on our home sales revenue and results of operations. The homebuilding industry is fragmented and highly competitive. Our homebuilding subsidiaries compete with numerous public and private homebuilders, including a number that are substantially larger than us and may have greater financial resources than we do. Our homebuilding subsidiaries also compete with subdivision developers and land development companies, some of which are themselves homebuilders or affiliates of homebuilders. Homebuilders compete for customers, land, building materials, subcontractor labor and desirable financing. Competition for home orders primarily is based upon home sales price, location of property, home style, financing available to prospective homebuyers, quality of homes built, customer service and general reputation in the community, and may vary market-by-market and/or submarket-by-submarket. Additionally, competition within the homebuilding industry can be impacted through an excess supply of new and existing homes available for sale resulting from a number of factors including, among other things, increases in unsold started homes available for sale and increases in home foreclosures. Increased competition can cause us to decrease our home sales prices and/or increase home sales incentives in an effort to generate new home sales and maintain homes in backlog until they close. These competitive pressures may negatively impact our future financial and operating results. Through our mortgage lending subsidiary, HomeAmerican, we also compete with numerous banks and other mortgage bankers and brokers, many of which are larger than us and may have greater financial resources than we do. Competitive factors include pricing, mortgage loan terms, underwriting criteria and customer service. To the extent that we are unable to adequately compete with other companies that originate mortgage loans, total revenue and the results of operations from our mortgage operations may be negatively impacted. If land is not available at reasonable prices or terms, our homes sales revenue and results of operations could be negatively impacted and/or we could be required to scale back our operations in a given market. Our operations depend on our homebuilding subsidiaries’ ability to obtain land for the development of our residential communities at reasonable prices and with terms that meet our underwriting criteria. Our ability to obtain land for new residential communities may be adversely affected by changes in the general availability of land, the willingness of land sellers to sell land at reasonable prices, competition for available land, availability of financing to acquire land, zoning, regulations that limit housing density, and other market conditions. If the supply of land, and especially finished lots, appropriate for development of residential communities continues to be limited because of these factors, or for any other reason, the number of homes that our homebuilding subsidiaries build and sell may decline. To the extent that we are unable to timely purchase land or enter into new contracts for the purchase of land at reasonable prices, due to the lag time between the time we acquire land and the time we begin selling homes, our home sales revenue and results of operations could be negatively impacted and/or we could be required to scale back our operations in a given market. Supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. The residential construction industry experiences labor and material shortages from time to time, including: work stoppages; labor disputes; shortages in qualified trades people; lack of availability of adequate utility infrastructure and services; our need to rely on local subcontractors who may not be adequately capitalized or insured; and delays in availability, or fluctuations in prices, of building materials. These labor and material shortages can be more severe during periods of strong demand for housing or during periods in which the markets where we operate experience natural disasters that have a significant impact on existing residential and commercial structures. Additionally, we 9 Table of Contents could experience labor shortages as a result of subcontractors going out of business or leaving the residential construction market due to low levels of housing production and volumes. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays in the start or completion of our residential communities, increase the cost of developing one or more of our residential communities and increase the construction cost of our homes. To the extent that market conditions prevent the recovery of increased costs, including, among other things, subcontracted labor, finished lots, building materials, and other resources, through higher selling prices, our gross margins from home sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. Increased costs of lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs. We generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into sales contracts, as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the homes at the time the contracts are signed, which may be in advance of the construction of the home. Sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our gross margins from home sales, particularly if pricing competition restricts our ability to pass on any additional costs of materials or labor, thereby decreasing our gross margins from home sales. If mortgage interest rates rise, if mortgage financing otherwise becomes less available or if down payment requirements are increased, it could adversely affect our business, and the duration and ultimate severity of the effects are uncertain. The mortgage lending industry continues to experience significant instability. Lenders, regulators and others have questioned the adequacy of lending standards and other credit requirements for several loan products and programs offered in prior years. Credit requirements tightened in the immediate aftermath of the financial crisis of 2007 and 2008, and investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities declined. The deterioration in credit quality has caused almost all lenders to eliminate subprime mortgages and most other loan products that are not eligible for sale to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac or loans that do not meet FHA and VA requirements. Fewer loan products and tighter loan qualifications have made it more difficult for many homebuyers to finance the purchase of our homes. These factors have served to reduce the pool of qualified homebuyers and made it more difficult to sell to first-time and move-up buyers who have historically been our customers. These reductions in demand have adversely affected our business and financial results, and the duration and severity of the effects remain uncertain. We believe that the liquidity provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to the mortgage industry has been very important to the housing market. The future of these entities is in question. Any reduction in the availability of the financing provided by these institutions could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage availability and our sales of new homes and mortgage loans. Because of the decline in the availability of other mortgage products, FHA and VA mortgage financing support has become a more important factor in marketing our homes. Increased demands on the FHA have resulted in a reduction of its cash reserves and additional regulations and requirements. This factor or any increases in down payment requirements or limitations or restrictions on the availability of FHA and VA financing support could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage availability and our sales of new homes and mortgage loans. Even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in the availability of mortgage products may make it harder for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing. If interest rates increase, the costs of owning a home will be affected and could result in further reductions in the demand for our homes. Similarly, potential changes to the tax code with respect to deduction of home mortgage interest payments or other changes may decrease affordability of and demand for homeownership. 10 Table of Contents Expirations, amendments or changes to tax laws, incentives or credits currently available to our customers may negatively impact our business. Many homeowners receive substantial tax benefits in the form of tax deductions against their personal taxable income for mortgage interest and property tax payments and the loss or reduction of these deductions would affect most homeowners’ net cost of owning a home. Also, federal or state governments have in the past provided for substantial benefits in the form of tax credits for buyers of new or used homes. Significant changes to existing tax laws that currently benefit homebuyers, such as the ability to deduct mortgage interest and real property taxes, may result in an increase in the total cost of home ownership and may make the purchase of a home less attractive to buyers. This could adversely impact demand for and/or sales prices of new homes, which would have a negative impact on our business. Increases in our cancellations could have a negative impact on our gross margins from home sales and home sales revenue. Home order cancellations can result from a number of factors, including declines in the market value of homes, increases in the supply of homes available to be purchased, increased competition, higher mortgage interest rates, homebuyers’ inability to sell their existing homes, homebuyers’ inability to obtain suitable financing, including providing sufficient down payments, and adverse changes in economic conditions. Increased levels of home order cancellations would have a negative impact on our home sales revenue and financial and operating results in future reporting periods. A decline in the market value of our homes or carrying value of our land would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial position. Our homebuilding subsidiaries acquire land for the replacement of land inventory and/or expansion within our current markets and may, from time to time, purchase land for expansion into new markets. The fair value of our land and land under development and housing completed or under construction inventory depends on market conditions. Factors that can impact our determination of the fair value of our inventory primarily include home sales prices, levels of home sales incentives and home construction and land costs. Our home sales prices and/or levels of home sales incentives can be impacted by, among other things, decreased demand for new homes, decreased home prices offered by our competitors, home foreclosure and short-sale levels, decreased ability of our homebuyers to obtain suitable mortgage loan financing and high levels of home order cancellations. Under such circumstances, we may be required to record additional impairments of our inventory. Additionally, due to the uncertainty in the homebuilding and mortgage lending industries and the overall United States economy, it is possible for us to experience declines in the market value of our homes and, as a result, additional inventory impairments could be recorded in future reporting periods. Any such additional inventory impairments would have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations in the future reporting period in which they were recorded. Natural disasters could cause an increase in home construction costs, as well as delays, and could negatively impact our results of operations. The climates and geology of many of the markets in which we operate present increased risks of natural disasters. To the extent that hurricanes, severe storms, earthquakes, droughts, floods, heavy or prolonged precipitation, wildfires or other natural disasters or similar events occur, the financial and operating results of our business may be negatively impacted. 11 Table of Contents We have financial needs that we meet through the capital markets, including the debt and secondary mortgage markets, and disruptions in these markets could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows. We have financial needs that we meet through the capital markets, including the debt and secondary mortgage markets. Our requirements for additional capital, whether to finance operations or to service or refinance our existing indebtedness, fluctuate as market conditions and our financial performance and operations change. We cannot provide complete assurance that we will maintain cash reserves and generate sufficient cash flow from operations in an amount to enable us to service our debt or to fund other liquidity needs. The availability of additional capital, whether from private capital sources or the public capital markets, fluctuates as our financial condition and market conditions in general change. There may be times when the private capital markets and the public debt or equity markets lack sufficient liquidity or when our securities cannot be sold at attractive prices, in which case we would not be able to access capital from these sources. In addition, a weakening of our financial condition or deterioration in our credit ratings could adversely affect our ability to obtain necessary funds. Even if financing is available, it could be costly or have other adverse consequences. There are a limited number of third-party purchasers of mortgage loans originated by HomeAmerican. If we see third-party purchasers of mortgage loans exit the business or experience, reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities in the secondary mortgage markets or increased investor yield requirements for those loans and securities, this may have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows. In addition, the sources and terms and conditions of warehouse financing and mortgage repurchase arrangements and other lending arrangements for the mortgage lending industry are changing. These changes can impact, among other things, availability of capital, terms and structures for debt and line of credit agreements, collateral requirements and collateral advance rates. Our business is subject to numerous federal, local and state laws and regulations concerning land development, construction of homes, sales, mortgage lending, environmental and other aspects of our business. These laws and regulations could give rise to additional liabilities or expenditures, or restrictions on our business. Our operations are subject to continuing compliance requirements mandated by applicable federal, state and local statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations, including zoning and land use ordinances, building, plumbing and electrical codes, contractors’ licensing laws, state insurance laws, federal and state human resources laws and regulations and health and safety laws and regulations. Various localities in which we operate have imposed (or may impose in the future) fees on developers to fund schools, road improvements and low and moderate-income housing. From time to time, various municipalities in which our homebuilding subsidiaries operate restrict or place moratoria on the availability of utilities, including water and sewer taps. Additionally, certain jurisdictions in which our homebuilding subsidiaries operate have proposed or enacted “slow growth” or “no growth” initiatives and other measures that may restrict the number of building permits available in any given year. These initiatives or other slow or no growth measures could reduce our ability to open new subdivisions and build and sell homes in the affected markets and may create additional costs and administration requirements, which in turn could negatively impact our future home sales and results of operations. Although future conditions or governmental actions may impact our ability to obtain necessary permits or water and sewer taps, we currently believe that we generally have, or can obtain, water and sewer taps and building permits for our homebuilding subsidiaries’ land inventory. Our homebuilding operations also are affected by environmental laws and regulations pertaining to availability of water, municipal sewage treatment capacity, stormwater discharges, land use, hazardous waste disposal, dust controls, building materials, population density and preservation of endangered species, natural terrain and vegetation. 12 Table of Contents Due to these considerations, our homebuilding subsidiaries generally obtain an environmental site assessment for parcels of land that they acquire. The particular environmental laws and regulations that apply to any given homebuilding project vary greatly according to a particular site’s location, the site’s environmental conditions and the present and former uses. These environmental laws may result in project delays, cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs and/or prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in certain environmentally sensitive locations. We also are subject to rules and regulations with respect to originating, processing, selling and servicing mortgage loans, which, among other things: prohibit discrimination and establish underwriting guidelines; provide for audits and inspections; require appraisals and/or credit reports on prospective borrowers and disclosure of certain information concerning credit and settlement costs; establish maximum loan amounts; prohibit predatory lending practices; and regulate the referral of business to affiliated entities. The turmoil caused by the increased number of defaults in subprime and other mortgages has encouraged consumer lawsuits and the investigation of financial services industry practices by governmental authorities. These investigations could include the examination of consumer lending practices, sales of mortgages to financial institutions and other investors and the practices in the financial services segments of homebuilding companies. New rules and regulations or revised interpretations of existing rules and regulations applicable to our mortgage lending operations could result in more stringent compliance standards, which may substantially increase costs of compliance. Additionally, potential changes to regulations, including but not limited to the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA) and the Dodd-Frank Act could have a significant impact on the ability of our affiliated businesses to provide services to Richmond American Homes customers, which could have a significant negative impact on our financial and operating results. In the ordinary course of business, we are required to obtain surety bonds, the unavailability of which could adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. As is customary in the homebuilding industry, we often are required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance under construction contracts, development agreements and other arrangements. Our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our credit rating, capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise and certain external factors, including the overall capacity of the surety market and the underwriting practices of surety bond issuers. The ability to obtain surety bonds also can be impacted by the willingness of insurance companies to issue surety bonds. If we were unable to obtain surety bonds when required, our results of operations and/or cash flows could be adversely impacted. Decreases in the market value of our investments in marketable securities could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We have investments in marketable securities, the market value of which is subject to changes from period to period. Decreases in the market value of our marketable securities could have an adverse impact on our statements of financial position, results of operations and cash flow. Product liability litigation and warranty claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly. As a homebuilder, we are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims, as well as claims associated with the sale and financing of our homes arising in the ordinary course of business. These types of claims can be costly. The costs of insuring against construction defect and product liability claims can be high and the amount of coverage offered by insurance companies may be limited. If we are not able to obtain adequate insurance against these claims, we may incur additional expenses that would have a negative impact on our results of operations in future 13 Table of Contents reporting periods. Additionally, changes in the facts and circumstances of our pending litigation matters could have a material impact on our results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods. Further uncertainty in the mortgage lending industry, including repurchase requirements associated with HomeAmerican’s sale of mortgage loans, could negatively impact our results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with mortgage loans, including, besides conventional mortgage loans, previously originated and sold as Alt-A loans, and sub-prime mortgage loans, second mortgage loans, high loan-to-value mortgage loans and jumbo mortgage loans (mortgage loans with principal balances that exceed various thresholds in our markets). These risks may include, among other things, compliance with mortgage loan underwriting criteria and the associated homebuyers’ performance, which could require HomeAmerican to repurchase certain of those mortgage loans or provide indemnification. Repurchased mortgage loans and/or the settlement of claims associated with such loans could have in the future a substantial impact on HomeAmerican’s results of operations, liquidity and cash flow. Because of the seasonal nature of our business, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate. We may experience noticeable seasonality and quarter-to-quarter variability in homebuilding activity levels. In general, the number of homes delivered and associated home sales revenue can increase during the third and fourth quarters, compared with the first and second quarters. We believe that this type of seasonality reflects the historical tendency of homebuyers to purchase new homes in the spring and summer with deliveries scheduled in the fall or winter, as well as the scheduling of construction to accommodate seasonal weather conditions in certain markets. There can be no assurance that this seasonality pattern will exist in future reporting periods. We are dependent on the services of key employees, and the loss of their services could hurt our business. Although we believe that we have made provision for adequately staffing current operations, because of our efforts to “right-size” our organization during the past five years, retaining our skilled people has become a critical area of focus. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract, train and retain skilled personnel. If we are unable to retain our key employees or attract, train and retain other skilled personnel in the future, it could have an adverse impact on our financial and operating results. The interests of certain controlling shareholders may be adverse to investors. Larry A. Mizel, David D. Mandarich and other of our affiliates beneficially own, directly or indirectly, in the aggregate, approximately 25% of our common stock. To the extent they and their affiliates vote their shares in the same manner, their combined stock ownership may effectively give them the power to influence the election of members of our board of directors and other matters reserved for our shareholders. Circumstances may occur in which the interest of these shareholders could be in conflict with your interests. In addition, such persons may have an interest in pursuing transactions that, in their judgment, enhance the value of their equity investment in us, even though such transactions may involve risks to you. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 14 Table of Contents 