Item 1A. Risk Factors Relating to our Business. Adverse changes in general economic conditions could reduce the demand for homes and, as a result, could negatively impact our results of operations. The homebuilding and mortgage lending industries continue to experience uncertainty and reduced demand for new homes, which negatively impacted our financial and operating results during the year ending December 31, 2008. High levels of national and international concern over instability in the credit markets have exacerbated the decline in demand for new homes. The conditions experienced during 2008 include, among other things: the announced existence of a national recession; increases in unemployment levels; continuing concerns over the effects of asset valuations on the banking system and financial markets; reduced availability of mortgage loan financing; reduced consumer confidence; fluctuating energy costs; the absence of home price stability; and continued declines in the value of new homes. If the downturn in the homebuilding and mortgage lending industries continues or intensifies, or if the national economy weakens further and the recession continues or intensifies, we could continue to experience declines in the market value of our inventory and demand for our homes, which could have a significant negative impact on our Home Gross Margins and financial and operating results. Additionally, if energy costs should increase, demand for our homes could be adversely impacted (because we are primarily a suburban residential builder), and the cost of building homes may increase, both of which could have a significant negative impact on our Home Gross Margins and financial and operating results. Additionally, as a result of the difficult economic environment, we may be subject to increased counterparty risks whereby third-parties, which may include, among others, banks under our Homebuilding Line and Mortgage Repurchase Facility, may not be willing or able to perform on obligations to the Company. To the extent a third-party is unable to meet its obligations to the Company, our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows could be negatively impacted. Increased competition levels in the homebuilding and mortgage lending industries could result in lower net home orders, closings and decreases in the average selling prices of sold and closed homes, which could have a negative impact on our home sales revenue and results of operations. The real estate industry is fragmented and highly competitive. Our homebuilding subsidiaries compete with numerous public and private homebuilders, including a number that are substantially larger and have greater financial resources than we do. Our homebuilding subsidiaries also compete with subdivision developers and land development companies, some of which are themselves homebuilders or affiliates of homebuilders. Homebuilders compete for customers, land, building materials, subcontractor labor and desirable financing. Competition for home orders primarily is based upon price, home style, financing available to prospective homebuyers, location of property, quality of homes built, customer service and general reputation in the community, and may vary market-by-market and/or submarket-by-submarket. Additionally, competition within the homebuilding industry can be impacted through an excess supply of new and existing homes available for sale resulting from a number of factors including, among other things, increases in speculative homes available for sale and increases in home foreclosures. Increased competition, including lower home sales prices offered by our competitors as experienced during 2008, can cause us to decrease our home sales prices and/or increase home sales incentives in an effort to generate new home sales and maintain homes in Backlog until they close. These competitive pressures are likely to continue for some time and could affect our ability to maintain existing home sales prices and require that we provide additional incentives, which would negatively impact our future financial and operating results. - 12 - Table of Contents Through our mortgage lending subsidiary, HomeAmerican, we also compete with numerous banks, thrifts and other mortgage bankers and brokers, many of which are larger and may have greater financial resources than we do. Competitive factors include pricing, mortgage loan terms, underwriting criteria and customer service. To the extent that we are unable to adequately compete with other companies that originate mortgage loans, total revenue and the results of operations from our Financial Services and Other segment may be negatively impacted. Further decline in the market value of our homes or carrying value of our land would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial position. Our homebuilding subsidiaries acquire land for the replacement of land inventory and/or expansion within our current markets and may, from time to time, purchase land for expansion into new markets. The fair value of our land and land under development and housing completed or under construction inventory depends on market conditions. Factors that can impact our determination of the fair value of our inventory primarily include homes sales prices, levels of home sales incentives and home construction costs. Our home sales prices and/or levels of home sales incentives can be impacted by, among other things, decreased demand for new homes, decreased home prices offered by our competitors, home foreclosure levels, decreased ability of our homebuyers to obtain suitable mortgage loan financing and continued high levels of home order cancellations. Additionally, our home construction costs can be impacted by, among other things, shortages of subcontractor labor and changes in costs associated with subcontracted labor, building materials and other resources. If we are required to decrease home sales prices and/or increase incentives in an effort to generate new home sales, maintain homes in Backlog until they close or remain competitive with the home sales prices offered by our competitors, or if our home construction costs increase, we may not be able to recover the carrying costs of our inventory when our homebuilding subsidiaries build and sell homes. Under such circumstances, we would be required to record additional impairments of our inventory. Additionally, due to the uncertainty in the homebuilding and mortgage lending industries, it is reasonably possible for us to experience further declines in the market value of our homes and, as a result, additional inventory impairments could be recorded in future reporting periods. Any such additional inventory impairments would have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations in the future reporting period in which they were recorded. Our strategies in responding to the adverse conditions in the homebuilding industry and overall recession in the U.S. economy have had limited success, and the continued implementation of these and other strategies may not be successful. While we have been successful in generating positive operating cash flow and reducing our inventories during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we have done so generally with significantly reduced Home Gross Margins and have incurred significant asset impairment charges during each of the past two calendar years. While we continue to monitor and modify our strategies in responding to the current economic environment, the effectiveness of these strategies in future reporting periods is unknown. To the extent they are not successful, our financial and operating results may be adversely impacted. Increases in our Cancellation Rate could have a negative impact on our Home Gross Margins and home sales revenue. During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, our Cancellation Rates remained high relative to our Cancellation Rates during 2005 and 2004, which has negatively impacted the number of closed homes, net home orders, home sales revenue and our results of operations, as well as - 13 - Table of Contents the number of homes in Backlog. Home order cancellations can result from a number of factors, including declines, and/or slow appreciation, in the market value of homes, increases in the supply of homes available to be purchased, increased competition, higher mortgage interest rates, homebuyers’ inability to sell their existing homes, homebuyers’ inability to obtain suitable financing, including providing sufficient down payments, and adverse changes in economic conditions. Continued high levels of home order cancellations would have a negative impact on our home sales revenue and financial and operating results in future reporting periods. If land is not available at reasonable prices, our homes sales revenue and results of operations could be negatively impacted and/or we could be required to scale back our operations in a given market. Our operations depend on our homebuilding subsidiaries’ ability to obtain land for the development of our residential communities at reasonable prices and with terms that meet our underwriting criteria. Our ability to obtain land for new residential communities may be adversely affected by changes in the general availability of land, the willingness of land sellers to sell land at reasonable prices given the deterioration in market conditions, competition for available land, availability of financing to acquire land, zoning, regulations that limit housing density, and other market conditions. If the supply of land appropriate for development of residential communities continues to be limited because of these factors, or for any other reason, the number of homes that our homebuilding subsidiaries build and sell may continue to decline. Additionally, the ability of our homebuilding subsidiaries to open new subdivisions could be impacted if we elect not to purchase lots under option contracts. To the extent that we are unable to timely purchase land or enter into new contracts for the purchase of land at reasonable prices, due to the lag time between the time we acquire land and the time we begin selling homes, our home sales revenue and results of operations could be negatively impacted and/or we could be required to scale back our operations in a given market. If our potential homebuyers are not able to obtain suitable financing, our results of operations or cash flows may be impacted adversely. Our business depends on the ability of our homebuyers to obtain affordable mortgages for the purchase of our homes, which includes being able to provide sufficient initial down payments for mortgage loan products currently available. Increases in the cost of mortgage financing and/or reductions in mortgage loan product offerings could prevent potential homebuyers from being able to obtain or qualify for mortgage loans. In addition, if our homebuyers must sell existing homes in order to buy homes from us, increases in mortgage costs or decreases in the market value of homes could interfere with such sales and result in our homebuyers’ inability to buy from us. Additionally, homebuyers’ ability to obtain suitable financing could be adversely impacted by tightening of our mortgage loan underwriting criteria in response to the decreased liquidity in the mortgage lending market. We are unable to predict future changes in home mortgage interest rates or the impact such changes may have on our operating activities and results of operations. However, these conditions can negatively impact our home sales revenue and results of operations through closing fewer homes and/or closing homes with lower average selling prices. We have financial needs that we meet through the capital markets, including the debt and secondary mortgage markets, and continued disruptions in these markets could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows. We have financial needs that we meet through the capital markets, including the debt and secondary mortgage markets. The secondary markets currently are experiencing disruptions from reduced investor - 14 - Table of Contents demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, increased investor yield requirements for those loans and securities and the exit of third-party purchasers from the secondary market. In addition, the sources and terms and conditions of warehouse financing and mortgage repurchase arrangements and other lending arrangements for the mortgage lending industry are changing. These changes can impact, among other things, availability of capital, terms and structures for debt and line of credit agreements, collateral requirements and collateral advance rates. Additionally, while certain governmental organizations and other mortgage industry participants have taken steps to ease the downturn in the credit and capital markets, the impact of their efforts, if any, on the homebuilding and mortgage lending industries is unknown. The foregoing disruptions and changes may have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows. In addition, the pricing matrix and the availability of advances and letters of credit under our homebuilding line of credit are dependent upon our credit ratings and leverage ratio, as defined. While we currently have an investment grade credit rating from all three major ratings agencies, the lowering of any or all of these credit ratings could have an adverse impact on the cost of advances, letters of credit and unused commitment fees under our homebuilding line of credit. Lower credit ratings for MDC also could subject this line of credit to a borrowing base structure, which could limit our ability to obtain additional advances and issuances of letters of credit under this line. Under certain circumstances, these limitations could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows. In the ordinary course of business, we are required to obtain performance bonds, the unavailability of which could adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. As is customary in the homebuilding industry, we often are required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance under construction contracts, development agreements and other arrangements. Our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our credit rating, capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise and certain external factors, including the overall capacity of the surety market and the underwriting practices of surety bond issuers. The ability to obtain surety bonds also can be impacted by the willingness of insurance companies to issue performance bonds. If we were unable to obtain surety bonds when required, our results of operations and/or cash flows could be adversely impacted. Further uncertainty in the mortgage lending industry, including repurchase requirements associated with HomeAmerican’s sale of mortgage loans, could negatively impact our results of operations. The Company is subject to risks associated with mortgage loans, including, among others, previously originated and sold Alt-A (as defined below), and sub-prime mortgage loans (as defined below), second mortgage loans, high loan-to-value mortgage loans and jumbo mortgage loans (mortgage loans with a principal balances that exceed various thresholds in our markets). These risks may include, among other things, compliance with mortgage loan underwriting criteria and the associated homebuyers’ performance, which could require HomeAmerican to repurchase certain of those mortgage loans or provide indemnification. Repurchased mortgage loans could have a substantial impact on HomeAmerican’s results of operations, liquidity and cash flow as the existence of a defect that necessitated repurchase may require additional effort and expense incurred by HomeAmerican to cure the defect, the passage of time in order to cure or reduce the impact of an identified defect, a discounted sale of the repurchased loan due to the existence of a defect or, in the event that the loan has a defect and is non-performing, foreclosure and re-sale of the subject property. - 15 - Table of Contents Additionally, during 2006 and 2005, HomeAmerican originated a significant number of second mortgage loans and Alt-A loans. However, during 2007 and continuing throughout 2008, in response to the reduced liquidity in the mortgage lending industry, we tightened our mortgage loan underwriting criteria by: (1) discontinuing Alt-A mortgage loans, second mortgage loans, sub-prime mortgage loans and Non-Agency (defined as not being FHA, VA FNMA and FHLMC eligible) mortgage loans with combined-loan-to-values in excess of 95%; and (2) requiring larger down payments from homebuyers in communities where the market values of homes have been declining. We define “Alt-A” loans as loans that would otherwise qualify as prime loans except that they do not comply in all ways with the documentation standards of the government sponsored enterprise guidelines. We define “sub-prime” mortgage loans as non-government insured mortgage loans that have Fair, Isaac & Company (FICO) scores less than or equal to 620. In the event we experience a significant increase in the number of Alt-A mortgage loans originated prior to 2008 that we are required to repurchase, our results of operations and cash flows would be adversely impacted. Interest rate increases or changes in lending programs could lower demand for our homes and our mortgage lending services. Our homebuilding and mortgage lending operations are impacted by the availability and cost of mortgage financing. Nearly all of our customers finance the purchase of their homes, and a significant number of these customers arrange their financing through HomeAmerican. Increases in home mortgage interest rates may reduce the demand for homes and home mortgages. We are unable to predict the extent to which recent or future changes in home mortgage interest rates will affect our operating activities and results of operations. Further tightening of mortgage loan underwriting criteria could have an adverse impact on our operating and financial results in future reporting periods. In addition, we believe that the availability of FNMA, FHLMC, FHA and VA mortgage loans are an important factor in our marketing strategy. Any changes, limitations or restrictions on the availability of these types of financing could reduce our subsidiaries’ home sales and mortgage lending volume. Our homebuilding and financial services operations have concentration risks that could impact our results of operations. We conduct a significant portion of our business in the Arizona, Colorado and Nevada markets and have generated a disproportionate amount of our revenue in these markets. In each of these markets we experienced deterioration in the demand for new homes and declines in the market value of our homes during 2008, 2007 and 2006. If we continue to experience a slowdown in our operations within these markets, our results of operations and financial position in future reporting periods will continue to be negatively impacted. There are a limited number of third-party purchasers of mortgage loans and, at any given point in time, our business may be impacted adversely if one of them was no longer able or willing to purchase mortgage loans originated by HomeAmerican. Our operations could be impacted adversely due to reduced competition and having fewer bidders for originated mortgage loans we sell, which could result in us receiving a lower price for such originated mortgage loans. - 16 - Table of Contents Our business is subject to numerous federal, local, state laws and regulations concerning land development, construction of homes, sales, mortgage lending, environmental and other aspects of our business. These laws and regulations could give rise to additional liabilities or expenditures, or restrictions on our business. Our operations are subject to continuing compliance requirements mandated by applicable federal, state and local statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations, including zoning and land use ordinances, building, plumbing and electrical codes, contractors’ licensing laws, state insurance laws, federal and state human resources laws and regulations and health and safety laws and regulations (including, but not limited to, those of the Occupational Safety & Health Administration). Various localities in which we operate have imposed (or may impose in the future) fees on developers to fund schools, road improvements and low and moderate-income housing. From time to time, various municipalities in which our homebuilding subsidiaries operate restrict or place moratoria on the availability of utilities, including water and sewer taps. Additionally, certain jurisdictions in which our homebuilding subsidiaries operate have proposed or enacted “slow growth” or “no growth” initiatives and other measures that may restrict the number of building permits available in any given year. These initiatives or other slow or no growth measures could reduce our ability to open new subdivisions and build and sell homes in the affected markets and may create additional costs and administration requirements, which in turn could negatively impact our future home sales and results of operations. Although future conditions or governmental actions may impact our ability to obtain necessary permits or water and sewer taps, we currently believe that we have, or can obtain, water and sewer taps and building permits for our homebuilding subsidiaries’ land inventory and land held for development. Our homebuilding operations also are affected by environmental laws and regulations pertaining to availability of water, municipal sewage treatment capacity, stormwater discharges, land use, hazardous waste disposal, dust controls, building materials, population density and preservation of endangered species, natural terrain and vegetation. Due to these considerations, our homebuilding subsidiaries generally obtain an environmental site assessment for parcels of land that they acquire. The particular environmental laws and regulations that apply to any given homebuilding project vary greatly according to a particular site’s location, the site’s environmental conditions and the present and former uses. These environmental laws may result in project delays, cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs and/or prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in certain environmentally sensitive locations. The Company also is subject to rules and regulations with respect to originating, processing, selling and servicing mortgage loans, which, among other things: prohibit discrimination and establish underwriting guidelines; provide for audits and inspections; require appraisals and/or credit reports on prospective borrowers and disclosure of certain information concerning credit and settlement costs; establish maximum loan amounts; prohibit predatory lending practices; and regulate the referral of business to affiliated entities. New rules and regulations or revised interpretations of existing rules and regulations applicable to our mortgage lending operations could result in more stringent compliance standards, which may substantially increase costs of compliance. Additionally, pending changes to the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA) could have a significant impact on the ability of our affiliated businesses to provide services to Richmond American Homes customers, which could have a significant negative impact on our financial and operating results. - 17 - Table of Contents Product liability litigation and warranty claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly. As a homebuilder, we are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims, including moisture intrusion and related mold claims, arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common to the homebuilding industry and can be costly. In addition, the costs of insuring against construction defect and product liability claims can be high and the amount of coverage offered by insurance companies is currently limited. This coverage may be further restricted and become more costly. If we are not able to obtain adequate insurance against these claims, we may incur additional expenses that would have a negative impact on our results of operations in future reporting periods. Our income tax provision and other tax liabilities may be insufficient if taxing authorities are successful in asserting tax positions that are contrary to our position. From time to time, we are audited by various federal, state and local authorities regarding income tax matters. Significant judgment is required to determine our provision for income taxes and our liabilities for federal, state, local and other income taxes. Our audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal and, in some cases, litigation process. Although we believe our approach to determining the appropriate tax treatment is supportable and in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” and FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes,” it is possible that the final tax authority will take a tax position that is materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision or benefit and other tax liabilities. As each audit is conducted, adjustments, if any, are recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements in the period determined. Such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision or benefit, or other tax liabilities, in the reporting period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows for such period. Because of the seasonal nature of our business, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate. Prior to 2007, we experienced noticeable seasonality and quarter-to-quarter variability in homebuilding activity levels. In general, the number of homes closed and associated home sales revenue increased during the third and fourth quarters, compared with the first and second quarters. We believe that this seasonality reflected the historical tendency of homebuyers to purchase new homes in the spring with closings scheduled in the fall or winter, as well as the scheduling of construction to accommodate seasonal weather conditions in certain markets. During 2008 and 2007, this seasonality pattern was not apparent in our financial or operating results. However, the extent to which our historical seasonality pattern contributed to actual 2008 home sales and closing levels is unknown, and there can be no assurances that this seasonality pattern will be apparent in future reporting periods. Supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. The residential construction industry experiences labor and material shortages from time to time, including: work stoppages; labor disputes and shortages in qualified trades people, insulation, drywall, concrete, steel and lumber; lack of availability of adequate utility infrastructure and services; our need to rely on local subcontractors who may not be adequately capitalized or insured; and shortages, delays in availability, or fluctuations in prices, of building materials. These labor and material shortages can - 18 - Table of Contents be more severe during periods of strong demand for housing or during periods in which the markets where we operate experience natural disasters that have a significant impact on existing residential and commercial structures. Additionally, we could experience labor shortages as a result of subcontractors going out of business during this recession. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays in the start or completion of our residential communities, increase the cost of developing one or more of our residential communities and increase the construction cost of our homes. To the extent that market conditions prevent the recovery of increased costs, including, among other things, subcontracted labor, finished lots, building materials, and other resources, through higher selling prices, our Home Gross Margins and results of operations could be affected negatively. Increased costs of lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. We generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into sales contracts, as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the homes at the time the contracts are signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. Sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our Home Gross Margins, particularly if pricing competition restricts our ability to pass on any additional costs of materials or labor, thereby decreasing our Home Gross Margins. Natural disasters could cause an increase in home construction costs, as well as delays, and could negatively impact our results of operations. The climates and geology of many of the markets in which we operate, including California and Florida, present increased risks of natural disasters. To the extent that hurricanes, severe storms, earthquakes, droughts, floods, heavy or prolonged precipitation, wildfires or other natural disasters or similar events occur, the financial and operating results of our business may be negatively impacted. We are dependent on the services of certain key employees, and the loss of their services could hurt our business. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract, train and retain skilled personnel. If we are unable to retain our key employees or attract, train and retain other skilled personnel in the future, it could have an adverse impact on our financial and operating results. The interests of certain controlling shareholders may be adverse to investors. Larry A. Mizel, David D. Mandarich and other of our affiliates beneficially own, directly or indirectly, in the aggregate, almost 25% of our outstanding common stock. To the extent they and their affiliates vote their shares in the same manner, their combined stock ownership may effectively give them the power to influence the election of members of our board of directors and other matters reserved for our shareholders. Circumstances may occur in which the interest of these shareholders could be in conflict with the interests of other shareholders. The large percentage of stock held by these persons could also delay or prevent a change in control of the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None - 19 - Table of Contents 