Item 1A. Risk Factors Relating to our Business. Adverse changes in general economic conditions could reduce the demand for homes and, as a result, could negatively impact our results of operations. The homebuilding and mortgage lending industries continued to experience uncertainty and reduced demand for new homes, which negatively impacted our financial and operating results during the year ended December 31, 2007. Widespread national and international concern over instability in the credit markets has exacerbated the decline in demand for new homes. The conditions experienced during 2007 included, among other things: reduced consumer confidence; on-going homebuyer concerns about the housing market and the lack of home selling price stabilization; concerns over higher-risk mortgage loan products, such as Alt-A and sub-prime mortgage loans; and reduced availability of mortgage loan financing. If the downturn in the homebuilding and mortgage lending industries continues, intensifies, or if the national economy weakens further and slips into a recession, we could continue to experience declines in the market value and demand for our homes, which could have a significant negative impact on our Home Gross Margins and financial and operational results. Increased competition levels in the homebuilding and mortgage lending industries could result in lower net home orders, closings and decreases in the average selling prices of sold and closed homes, which could have a negative impact on our home sales revenue and results of operations. The real estate industry is fragmented and highly competitive. Our homebuilding subsidiaries compete with numerous public and private homebuilders, including a number that are substantially larger and have greater financial resources than us. Our homebuilding subsidiaries also compete with subdivision developers and land development companies, some of which are themselves homebuilders or affiliates of homebuilders. Homebuilders compete for customers, land, building materials, subcontractor labor and desirable financing. Competition for home orders primarily is based upon price, home style, financing available to prospective homebuyers, location of property, quality of homes built, customer service and general reputation in the community, and may vary market-by-market and/or submarket-by-submarket. Additionally, competition within the homebuilding industry can be impacted through an excess supply of new and existing homes available for sale resulting from a number of factors including, among other things, increases in speculative homes available for sale and increases in home foreclosures. Increased competition, including lower home sales prices offered by our competitors as experienced during 2007, can result in decreases in our home sales prices and/or increases in home sales incentives in an effort to generate new home sales and maintain homes in Backlog until they close. These competitive pressures are likely to continue for some time and could affect our ability to maintain existing home sales prices and require that we provide additional incentives, which would negatively impact our future financial and operating results. We, through our mortgage lending subsidiary, HomeAmerican, also compete with numerous banks, thrifts and other mortgage bankers and brokers, many of which are larger and may have greater financial resources than we do. Competitive factors include pricing, mortgage loan terms, underwriting criteria and customer service. To the extent that we are unable to adequately compete with other companies that originate mortgage loans, total revenue and the results of operations from our Financial Services and Other segment may be negatively impacted. Further decline in the market value of our homes or carrying value of our land would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial position. Our homebuilding subsidiaries acquire land for the replacement of land inventory and/or expansion within our current markets and may, from time to time, purchase land for expansion into new markets. The fair value of our land - 13 - Table of Contents and land under development and housing completed or under construction inventory depends on market conditions. Factors that can impact our determination of the fair value of our inventory primarily include homes sales prices, levels of home sales incentives and home construction costs. Our home sales prices and/or levels of home sales incentives can be impacted by, among other things, decreased demand for new homes, decreased home prices offered by our competitors, decreased ability of our homebuyers to obtain suitable mortgage loan financing and continued high levels of home order cancellations. Additionally, our home construction costs can be impacted by, among other things, shortages of subcontractor labor and changes in costs associated with subcontracted labor, building materials and other resources. If we are required to decrease home sales prices and/or increase incentives in an effort to generate new home sales, maintain homes in Backlog until they close or remain competitive with the home sales prices offered by our competitors, or if our home construction costs increase, we may not be able to recover the carrying costs of our inventory when our homebuilding subsidiaries build and sell homes. In such circumstances, we would be required to record additional impairments of our inventory. Additionally, due to the uncertainty in the homebuilding and mortgage lending industries, it is reasonably possible for us to experience further declines in the market value of our homes and, as a result, additional inventory impairments could be recorded in future reporting periods. Any such additional inventory impairments would have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations in the future reporting period in which they were recorded. Increases in our Cancellation Rate could have a negative impact on our Home Gross Margins and home sales revenue. Our Cancellation Rate increased significantly during 2007 and 2006, compared with 2005 and 2004, which has negatively impacted the number of closed homes, net home orders, home sales revenue and our results of operations during 2007 and 2006, as well as the number of homes in Backlog at the end of each reporting period. Home order cancellations can result from a number of factors, including, declines in the market value of homes and/or slow appreciation in the market value of homes, increases in the supply of homes available to be purchased, increased competition, higher mortgage interest rates, homebuyers’ inability to sell their existing homes, homebuyers’ inability to obtain suitable financing, including providing sufficient down payments, and adverse changes in economic conditions. Continued high levels of home order cancellations would have a negative impact on our home sales revenue and financial and operating results in future reporting periods. If land is not available at reasonable prices, our homes sales revenue and results of operations could be negatively impacted and/or we could be required to scale back our operations in a given market. Our operations depend on our homebuilding subsidiaries’ ability to obtain land for the development of our residential communities at reasonable prices and with terms that meet our underwriting criteria. Our ability to obtain land for new residential communities may be adversely affected by changes in the general availability of land, the willingness of land sellers to sell land at reasonable prices given the deterioration in market conditions, competition for available land, availability of financing to acquire land, zoning, regulations that limit housing density and other market conditions. If the supply of land appropriate for development of residential communities becomes more limited because of these factors, or for any other reason, the number of homes that our homebuilding subsidiaries build and sell could be reduced. Additionally, the ability of our homebuilding subsidiaries to open new subdivisions could be impacted if we elect not to purchase lots under option contracts. To the extent that we are unable to timely purchase land or enter into new contracts for the purchase of land at reasonable prices, due to the lag time between the time we acquire land and the time we begin selling homes, our homes sales revenue and results of operations could be negatively impacted and/or we could be required to scale back our operations in a given market. - 14 - Table of Contents If our potential homebuyers are not able to obtain suitable financing, our results of operations or cash flows may be impacted adversely. Our business depends on the ability of our homebuyers to obtain affordable mortgages for the purchase of our homes, which includes being able to provide sufficient initial down payments for mortgage loan products currently available. Increases in the cost of mortgage financing and/or reductions in mortgage loan product offerings could prevent potential homebuyers from being able to obtain or qualify for mortgage loans. In addition, if our homebuyers must sell existing homes in order to buy homes from us, increases in mortgage costs or decreases in the market value of homes could interfere with such sales and result in our homebuyers’ inability to buy from us. Additionally, homebuyers’ ability to obtain suitable financing could be adversely impacted by tightening of our mortgage loan underwriting criteria in response to the decreased liquidity in the mortgage lending market. We are unable to predict future changes in home mortgage interest rates or the impact such changes may have on our operating activities and results of operations. However, these conditions can negatively impact our home sales revenue and results of operations through closing fewer homes and/or closing homes with lower average selling prices. We have financial needs that we meet through the capital markets, including the debt and secondary mortgage markets, and continued disruptions in these markets could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows. We have financial needs that we meet through the capital markets, including the debt and secondary mortgage markets. The secondary markets currently are experiencing disruptions from reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, increased investor yield requirements for those loans and securities and the exit of third-party purchasers from the secondary market. In addition, the sources and terms and conditions of warehouse financing arrangements and other lending arrangements for the mortgage lending industry are changing. These changes can impact, among other things, availability of capital, terms and structures for debt and line of credit agreements, collateral requirements and collateral advance rates. Additionally, while certain governmental organizations and other mortgage industry participants have taken steps recently to ease the downturn in the credit and capital markets, the impact of their efforts, if any, on the homebuilding and mortgage lending industries is unknown. The foregoing disruptions and changes may have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows. As is customary in the homebuilding industry, we often are required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance under construction contracts, development agreements and other arrangements. Our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our credit rating, capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise and certain external factors, including the overall capacity of the surety market. While our credit ratings and liquidity position currently are strong, if we were unable to obtain surety bonds when required, our results of operations and/or cash flows could be impacted adversely. In addition, the pricing matrix and the availability of advances and letters of credit under our homebuilding line of credit are dependent upon our credit ratings. While we currently have an investment grade credit rating from all three major ratings agencies, the lowering of any or all of these credit ratings could have an adverse impact on the cost of advances, letters of credit and unused commitment fees under our homebuilding line of credit. Lower credit ratings for MDC also could subject this line of credit to a borrowing base structure, which could limit our ability to obtain additional advances and issuances of letters of credit under this line. Under certain circumstances, these limitations could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows. - 15 - Table of Contents Further uncertainty in the mortgage lending industry regarding the origination of mortgage loans could negatively impact our results of operations. The Company is subject to risks associated with mortgage loans, including, among others, previously originated and sold Alt-A and sub-prime mortgage loans, second mortgage loans, high loan-to-value mortgage loans and jumbo mortgage loans (defined as a mortgage loan with a principal balance in excess of $417,000). These risks may include, among other things, compliance with mortgage loan underwriting criteria and the associated homebuyers’ performance, which could require HomeAmerican to repurchase certain of those mortgage loans or provide indemnification. Repurchased mortgage loans may impact HomeAmerican’s results of operations, liquidity and cash flow as the existence of a defect that necessitated repurchase may require additional effort and expense incurred by HomeAmerican to cure the defect, the passage of time in order to cure or reduce the impact of an identified defect, a discounted sale of the repurchased loan due to the existence of a defect or, in the event that the loan has a defect and is non-performing, foreclosure and re-sale of the subject property. Interest rate increases or changes in lending programs could lower demand for our homes and our mortgage lending services. Our homebuilding and mortgage lending operations are impacted by the availability and cost of mortgage financing. Nearly all of our customers finance the purchase of their homes, and a significant number of these customers arrange their financing through HomeAmerican. Increases in home mortgage interest rates may reduce the demand for homes and home mortgages. We are unable to predict the extent to which recent or future changes in home mortgage interest rates will affect our operating activities and results of operations. Additionally, further tightening of mortgage loan underwriting criteria could have an adverse impact on our operating and financial results in future reporting periods. In addition, we believe that the availability of FNMA, FHLMC, FHA and VA mortgage loans are an important factor in our marketing strategy. Any changes, limitations or restrictions on the availability of these types of financing could reduce our subsidiaries’ home sales and mortgage lending volume. We depend on certain markets, and reduced home sales orders and closings for homes in these markets could have a negative impact on our revenue and results of operations. Additionally, we are reliant on a limited number of third-party purchasers of mortgage loans originated by HomeAmerican, which could impact our results of operations. We conduct a significant portion of our business in the Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada and Virginia markets and generate a disproportionate amount of our revenue in these markets. Demand for new homes and the market value of homes declined during 2007 and 2006 in each of these markets. If we continue to experience a slowdown in our operations within these markets, our results of operations and financial position in future reporting periods will continue to be negatively impacted. Additionally, there are a limited number of third-party purchasers of mortgage loans and, at any given point in time, our business may be impacted adversely if one of them was no longer able or willing to purchase mortgage loans originated by HomeAmerican. Our operations could be impacted adversely due to reduced competition and having fewer bidders for originated mortgage loans we sell, which could result in us receiving a lower price for such originated mortgage loans. - 16 - Table of Contents Our business is subject to numerous federal, local, state laws and regulations concerning land development, construction of homes, sales, mortgage lending, environmental and other aspects of our business. These laws and regulations could give rise to additional liabilities or expenditures, or restrictions on our business. Our operations are subject to continuing compliance requirements mandated by applicable federal, state and local statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations, including zoning and land use ordinances, building, plumbing and electrical codes, contractors’ licensing laws, state insurance laws, federal and state human resources laws and regulations and health and safety laws and regulations (including, but not limited to, those of the Occupational Safety & Health Administration). Various localities in which we operate have imposed (or may impose in the future) fees on developers to fund schools, road improvements and low and moderate-income housing. From time to time, various municipalities in which our homebuilding subsidiaries operate restrict or place moratoria on the availability of utilities, including water and sewer taps. Additionally, certain jurisdictions in which our homebuilding subsidiaries operate have proposed or enacted “slow growth” or “no growth” initiatives and other measures that may restrict the number of building permits available in any given year. These initiatives or other slow or no growth measures could reduce our ability to open new subdivisions and build and sell homes in the affected markets and may create additional costs and administration requirements, which in turn could negatively impact our future home sales and results of operations. Although future conditions or governmental actions may impact our ability to obtain necessary permits or water and sewer taps, we currently believe that we have, or can obtain, water and sewer taps and building permits for our homebuilding subsidiaries’ land inventory and land held for development. Our homebuilding operations also are affected by environmental laws and regulations pertaining to availability of water, municipal sewage treatment capacity, stormwater discharges, land use, hazardous waste disposal, dust controls, building materials, population density and preservation of endangered species, natural terrain and vegetation. Due to these considerations, our homebuilding subsidiaries generally obtain an environmental site assessment for parcels of land that they acquire. The particular environmental laws and regulations that apply to any given homebuilding project vary greatly according to a particular site’s location, the site’s environmental conditions and the present and former uses. These environmental laws may result in project delays, cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs and/or prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in certain environmentally sensitive locations. The Company also is subject to rules and regulations with respect to originating, processing, selling and servicing mortgage loans, which, among other things: prohibit discrimination and establish underwriting guidelines; provide for audits and inspections; require appraisals, credit reports on prospective borrowers and disclosure of certain information concerning credit and settlement costs; establish maximum loan amounts; prohibit predatory lending practices; and regulate the referral of business to affiliated entities. Over time, the level of complexity in the mortgage lending business has increased significantly due to several factors, including: (1) an increase in the number of mortgage loan products as a result of the evolution of the secondary mortgage market and demand by borrowers; and (2) greater regulation of the industry. New rules and regulations, or revised interpretations of existing rules and regulations applicable to our mortgage lending operations could result in more stringent compliance standards, which may substantially increase costs of compliance. Product liability litigation and warranty claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly. As a homebuilder, we are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims, including moisture intrusion and related mold claims, arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common to the homebuilding industry and can be costly. In addition, the costs of insuring against construction defect and product liability claims are high and the amount of coverage offered by insurance companies is currently limited. This coverage may be - 17 - Table of Contents further restricted and become more costly. If we are not able to obtain adequate insurance against these claims, we may incur additional expenses that would have a negative impact on our results of operations in future reporting periods. Our income tax provision and other tax liabilities may be insufficient if taxing authorities are successful in asserting tax positions that are contrary to our position. Additionally, continued loss from operations in future reporting periods may require us to adjust the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. From time to time, we are audited by various federal, state and local authorities regarding income tax matters. Significant judgment is required to determine our provision for income taxes and our liabilities for federal, state, local and other taxes. Our audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal and, in some cases, litigation process. Although we believe our approach to determining the appropriate tax treatment is supportable and in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” and FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes,” it is possible that the final tax authority will take a tax position that is materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision and other tax reserves. As each audit is conducted, adjustments, if any, are appropriately recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements in the period determined. Such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision or benefit, or other tax reserves, in the reporting period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows for such period. Our deferred tax assets should be reduced by a valuation allowance, if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more-likely-than-not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In determining the more-likely-than-not criterion, we evaluate all positive and negative evidence as of the end of each reporting period. Future adjustments, either increases or decreases, to our deferred tax asset valuation allowance will be determined based upon changes in the expected realization of our net deferred tax assets. The realization of our deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in either the carryback or carryforward periods under the tax law. Due to significant estimates utilized in establishing the valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, it is reasonably possible that we will be required to record adjustments to the valuation allowance in future reporting periods. Our results of operations would be impacted negatively if we determine that increases to our deferred tax asset valuation allowance are required in a future reporting period. Because of the seasonal nature of our business, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate. Prior to 2006, we experienced seasonality and quarter-to-quarter variability in homebuilding activity levels. In general, the number of homes closed and associated home sales revenue increased during the third and fourth quarters, compared with the first and second quarters. We believe that this seasonality reflected the historical tendency of homebuyers to purchase new homes in the spring with closings scheduled in the fall or winter, as well as the scheduling of construction to accommodate seasonal weather conditions in certain markets. During 2007 and 2006, this seasonality pattern in the homebuilding industry was not apparent. The extent to which our historical seasonality pattern contributed to actual 2007 home sales and closing levels is unknown, and there can be no assurances that this seasonality pattern will be present in future reporting periods. Labor and material shortages could cause delays in, and increase the costs of, the construction of our homes. The residential construction industry experiences labor and material shortages from time to time, including: work stoppages; labor disputes and shortages in qualified trades people, insulation, drywall, concrete, steel and lumber; lack of availability of adequate utility infrastructure and services; our need to rely on local subcontractors who may not be - 18 - Table of Contents adequately capitalized or insured; and shortages, or delays in availability, or fluctuations in prices, of building materials. These labor and material shortages can be more severe during periods of strong demand for housing or during periods in which the markets where we operate experience natural disasters that have a significant impact on existing residential and commercial structures. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays in the start or completion of our residential communities, increase the cost of developing one or more of our residential communities and increase the construction cost of our homes. To the extent that market conditions prevent the recovery of increased costs, including among other things, subcontracted labor, finished lots, building materials, and other resources, through higher selling prices, our Home Gross Margins and results of operations could be affected negatively. Natural disasters could cause an increase in home construction costs, as well as delays, and could negatively impact our results of operations. The climates and geology of many of the markets in which we operate, including California and Florida, present increased risks of natural disasters. To the extent that hurricanes, severe storms, earthquakes, droughts, floods, heavy or prolonged precipitation, wildfires or other natural disasters or similar events occur, the financial and operating results of our business, in particular, may be negatively impacted. These, among other natural disasters, can affect an area in which we build, or one nearby, and result in a diversion of labor and materials in the area from new home construction to the rebuilding of the existing homes damaged or destroyed in the natural disaster. This can cause delays in construction and delivery of new homes and/or increase our construction costs. We are dependent on the services of certain key employees, and the loss of their services could hurt our business. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract, train and retain skilled personnel. If we are unable to retain our key employees or attract, train and retain other skilled personnel in the future, it could have an adverse impact on our financial and operating results. Increased domestic and international instability could have an adverse effect on our operations. Adverse developments in the war on terrorism, future terrorist attacks against the United States, or increased domestic and international instability could adversely affect our business. The interests of certain controlling shareholders may be adverse to investors. Larry A. Mizel, David D. Mandarich and other of our affiliates own, directly or indirectly, in the aggregate, almost 25% of our outstanding common stock. To the extent they and their affiliates vote their shares in the same manner, their combined stock ownership may effectively give them the power to elect our entire board of directors and control our management, operations and affairs. Circumstances may occur in which the interest of these shareholders could be in conflict with the interests of other shareholders. The large percentage of stock held by these persons could also delay or prevent a change in control of the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None - 19 - Table of Contents 