Item 1A. Risk Factors. The homebuilding industry has experienced a significant downturn, and its duration and ultimate severity are uncertain. A continuation or further deterioration in industry conditions or in the broader economic conditions could have additional adverse effects on our business and financial results. The homebuilding industry has been in a sustained downturn since 2006, and it has become one of the most severe housing downturns in U.S. history. The significant declines in the demand for new homes, oversupply of homes on the market and reductions in the availability of financing for homebuyers that have marked the downturn are continuing. We have experienced uncertainty and continued low demand for new homes, which negatively impacted our financial and operating results during the year ending December 31, 2011. Our ability to recover from the downturn in the housing market has been negatively impacted by adverse industry and economic conditions. Home mortgage foreclosures have driven down home selling prices, making the purchase of a foreclosed home an attractive alternative to purchasing a new home. Homebuilders have responded with significant concessions, further adding to price declines. With the decline in the values of homes and in the inability of some homeowners to make their mortgage payments, the credit markets have been significantly disrupted, putting strains on many households and businesses. In the face of these conditions, weak economic conditions have continued, with high unemployment levels and overall low consumer confidence, particularly regarding the housing market. As a result, demand for new homes has remained at historically low levels. If the downturn in the homebuilding and mortgage lending industries were to continue, or if the national economy weakens, we could continue to experience declines in the market value of our inventory and demand for our homes, which could have a significant negative impact on our Home Gross Margins and financial and operating results. If energy costs should increase, demand for our homes could be adversely impacted (because we are primarily a suburban residential builder), and the cost of building homes may increase, both of which could have a significant negative impact on our Home Gross Margins and financial and operating results. Additionally, as a result of the difficult economic environment, we may be subject to increased counterparty risks, which may include, among others, banks under our letter of credit facilities and mortgage purchasers who may not be willing or able to perform on obligations to us. To the extent a third-party is unable to meet its obligations to us, our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows could be negatively impacted. These challenging conditions are complex and interrelated. We cannot predict their duration or ultimate severity nor can we provide assurance that our responses to the homebuilding downturn will be successful. Our strategies in responding to the adverse conditions in the homebuilding industry and in the U.S. economy have had limited success, and the continued implementation of these and other strategies may not be successful. Our recent strategies for responding to the current economic environment have been focused primarily on our sales and marketing efforts and significant personnel changes. To the extent these changes in our personnel or shifts in our sales and marketing strategies do not result in increased closings or increased Home Gross Margins, we may continue to experience depressed levels of orders for homes and closed homes and may continue to incur losses from operations. Increased competition levels in the homebuilding and mortgage lending industries could result in lower net home orders, closings and decreases in the average selling prices of sold and closed homes, which would have a negative impact on our home sales revenue and results of operations. The homebuilding industry is fragmented and highly competitive. Our homebuilding subsidiaries compete with numerous public and private homebuilders, including a number that are substantially larger and have greater financial - 11 - Table of Contents resources than we do. Our homebuilding subsidiaries also compete with subdivision developers and land development companies, some of which are themselves homebuilders or affiliates of homebuilders. Homebuilders compete for customers, land, building materials, subcontractor labor and desirable financing. Competition for home orders primarily is based upon home sales price, home style, financing available to prospective homebuyers, location of property, quality of homes built, customer service and general reputation in the community, and may vary market-by-market and/or submarket-by-submarket. Additionally, competition within the homebuilding industry can be impacted through an excess supply of new and existing homes available for sale resulting from a number of factors including, among other things, increases in unsold started homes available for sale and increases in home foreclosures. Increased competition, including lower home sales prices offered by our competitors as experienced during 2011, can cause us to decrease our home sales prices and/or increase home sales incentives in an effort to generate new home sales and maintain homes in Backlog until they close. These competitive pressures are likely to continue for some time and could affect our ability to maintain existing home sales prices, which may negatively impact our future financial and operating results. Through our mortgage lending subsidiary, HomeAmerican, we also compete with numerous banks, thrifts and other mortgage bankers and brokers, many of which are larger and may have greater financial resources than we do. Competitive factors include pricing, mortgage loan terms, underwriting criteria and customer service. To the extent that we are unable to adequately compete with other companies that originate mortgage loans, total revenue and the results of operations from our Financial Services and Other segment may be negatively impacted. Further decline in the market value of our homes or carrying value of our land would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial position. Our homebuilding subsidiaries acquire land for the replacement of land inventory and/or expansion within our current markets and may, from time to time, purchase land for expansion into new markets. The fair value of our land and land under development and housing completed or under construction inventory depends on market conditions. Factors that can impact our determination of the fair value of our inventory primarily include home sales prices, levels of home sales incentives and home construction costs. Our home sales prices and/or levels of home sales incentives can be impacted by, among other things, decreased demand for new homes, decreased home prices offered by our competitors, home foreclosure levels, decreased ability of our homebuyers to obtain suitable mortgage loan financing and high levels of home order cancellations. Additionally, our home construction costs can be impacted by, among other things, shortages of subcontractor labor and changes in costs associated with subcontracted labor, building materials and other resources. If we are required to decrease home sales prices and/or increase incentives in an effort to generate new home sales, maintain homes in Backlog or remain competitive with the home sales prices offered by our competitors, or if our home construction costs increase, we may not be able to recover the carrying costs of our inventory when our homebuilding subsidiaries build and sell homes. Under such circumstances, we may be required to record additional impairments of our inventory. Additionally, due to the uncertainty in the homebuilding and mortgage lending industries and the overall United States economy, it is reasonably possible for us to experience declines in the market value of our homes and, as a result, additional inventory impairments could be recorded in future reporting periods. Any such additional inventory impairments would have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations in the future reporting period in which they were recorded. Increases in our cancellations could have a negative impact on our Home Gross Margins and home sales revenue. Home order cancellations can result from a number of factors, including declines in the market value of homes, increases in the supply of homes available to be purchased, increased competition, higher mortgage interest rates, homebuyers’ inability to sell their existing homes, homebuyers’ inability to obtain suitable financing, including providing sufficient down payments, and adverse changes in economic conditions. - 12 - Table of Contents Increased levels of home order cancellations would have a negative impact on our home sales revenue and financial and operating results in future reporting periods. If land is not available at reasonable prices or terms, our homes sales revenue and results of operations could be negatively impacted and/or we could be required to scale back our operations in a given market. Our operations depend on our homebuilding subsidiaries’ ability to obtain land for the development of our residential communities at reasonable prices and with terms that meet our underwriting criteria. Our ability to obtain land for new residential communities may be adversely affected by changes in the general availability of land, the willingness of land sellers to sell land at reasonable prices given the deterioration in market conditions, competition for available land, availability of financing to acquire land, zoning, regulations that limit housing density, and other market conditions. If the supply of land, and especially finished lots, appropriate for development of residential communities continues to be limited because of these factors, or for any other reason, the number of homes that our homebuilding subsidiaries build and sell may decline. Additionally, the ability of our homebuilding subsidiaries to open new subdivisions could be impacted if we elect not to purchase lots under option contracts. To the extent that we are unable to timely purchase land or enter into new contracts for the purchase of land at reasonable prices, due to the lag time between the time we acquire land and the time we begin selling homes, our home sales revenue and results of operations could be negatively impacted and/or we could be required to scale back our operations in a given market. If mortgage interest rates rise or if mortgage financing otherwise becomes less affordable, it could adversely affect our sales and business, and the duration and ultimate severity of the effects are uncertain. The mortgage lending industry continues to experience significant instability, including defaults on subprime loans and other nonconforming loans and expectations of increasing interest payment requirements and further defaults. These factors have resulted in a decline in the market value of many mortgage loans and related securities. Lenders, regulators and others have questioned the adequacy of lending standards and other credit requirements for several loan products and programs offered in prior years. Credit requirements tightened, and investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities declined. The deterioration in credit quality has caused almost all lenders to eliminate subprime mortgages and most other loan products that are not eligible for sale to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac or loans that do not meet FHA and VA requirements. Fewer loan products, tighter loan qualifications and a reduced willingness of lenders to make loans in turn have made it more difficult for many homebuyers to finance the purchase of our homes. These factors have served to reduce the pool of qualified homebuyers and made it more difficult to sell to first-time and move-up buyers who have historically been our customers. These reductions in demand have adversely affected our business and financial results, and the duration and severity of the effects remain uncertain. We believe that the liquidity provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to the mortgage industry has been very important to the housing market. The future of these entities is in question. Any reduction in the availability of the financing provided by these institutions could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage availability and our sales of new homes and mortgage loans. Because of the decline in the availability of other mortgage products, FHA and VA mortgage financing support has become a more important factor in marketing our homes. The American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act of 2008, however, increased a buyer’s down payment requirement for FHA insured loans. In addition, increased demands on the FHA have resulted in a reduction of its cash reserves. These factors or further increases in down payment requirements or limitations or restrictions on the availability of FHA and VA financing support could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage availability and our sales of new homes and mortgage loans. Even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in the availability of mortgage products may make it harder for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing. - 13 - Table of Contents If interest rates increase, the costs of owning a home will be affected and could result in further reductions in the demand for our homes. Similarly, potential changes to the tax code with respect to deduction of home mortgage interest payments or other changes may decrease affordability of homeownership. We have financial needs that we meet through the capital markets, including the debt and secondary mortgage markets, and continued disruptions in these markets could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows. We have financial needs that we meet through the capital markets, including the debt and secondary mortgage markets. Reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities in the secondary mortgage markets and increased investor yield requirements for those loans and securities and the exit of third-party purchasers from the secondary market may have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows. In addition, the sources and terms and conditions of warehouse financing and mortgage repurchase arrangements and other lending arrangements for the mortgage lending industry are changing. These changes can impact, among other things, availability of capital, terms and structures for debt and line of credit agreements, collateral requirements and collateral advance rates. In the ordinary course of business, we are required to obtain performance bonds, the unavailability of which could adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. As is customary in the homebuilding industry, we often are required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance under construction contracts, development agreements and other arrangements. Our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our credit rating, capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise and certain external factors, including the overall capacity of the surety market and the underwriting practices of surety bond issuers. The ability to obtain surety bonds also can be impacted by the willingness of insurance companies to issue performance bonds. If we were unable to obtain surety bonds when required, our results of operations and/or cash flows could be adversely impacted. Further uncertainty in the mortgage lending industry, including repurchase requirements associated with HomeAmerican’s sale of mortgage loans, could negatively impact our results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with mortgage loans, including, besides conventional mortgage loans, previously originated and sold Alt-A, and sub-prime mortgage loans, second mortgage loans, high loan-to-value mortgage loans and jumbo mortgage loans (mortgage loans with principal balances that exceed various thresholds in our markets). These risks may include, among other things, compliance with mortgage loan underwriting criteria and the associated homebuyers’ performance, which could require HomeAmerican to repurchase certain of those mortgage loans or provide indemnification. Repurchased mortgage loans and/or the settlement of claims associated with such loans had in 2011 and could have in the future a substantial impact on HomeAmerican’s results of operations, liquidity and cash flow. Decreases in the market value of our investments in marketable securities could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We have invested $519.9 million in marketable securities at December 31, 2011, the market value of which is subject to changes from period to period. Decreases in the market value of our marketable securities could have an adverse impact on our statements of financial position, results of operations and cash flow. - 14 - Table of Contents As of December 31, 2011, we are utilizing a new Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system in all but two of our homebuilding divisions and, if we encounter significant problems with this implementation or implementation throughout our remaining homebuilding divisions, it could have an adverse impact on our operating activities and/or financial reporting capabilities. As of December 31, 2011, we have been utilizing a new ERP system in eight of our ten homebuilding divisions. The full implementation of this system throughout all of our homebuilding divisions is scheduled to take place over the course of the next year. To the extent that we encounter significant problems, delays or disruptions in our implementation process, our ability to effectively monitor and manage our operating activities and/or financial reporting capabilities could be adversely impacted. Our financial services operations have concentration risks that could impact our results of operations. There are a limited number of third-party purchasers of mortgage loans originated by HomeAmerican. On August 31, 2011, Bank of America, one of our third-party purchasers, announced its intention to sell its third-party mortgage operation and exit its correspondent mortgage lending business. Subsequently, Bank of America amended its prior announcement and indicated that no sale of the third-party mortgage operation was forthcoming, but that it would proceed with its original plan to exit its correspondent mortgage lending business, with the last date that they would purchase a mortgage being December 15, 2011. If we continue to see other third-party purchasers of mortgage loans exit the business, our operations could be impacted adversely due to reduced competition and having fewer bidders for originated mortgage loans we sell, which could result in us receiving a lower price for such originated mortgage loans. Our business is subject to numerous federal, local and state laws and regulations concerning land development, construction of homes, sales, mortgage lending, environmental and other aspects of our business. These laws and regulations could give rise to additional liabilities or expenditures, or restrictions on our business. Our operations are subject to continuing compliance requirements mandated by applicable federal, state and local statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations, including zoning and land use ordinances, building, plumbing and electrical codes, contractors’ licensing laws, state insurance laws, federal and state human resources laws and regulations and health and safety laws and regulations (including, but not limited to, those of the Occupational Safety & Health Administration). Various localities in which we operate have imposed (or may impose in the future) fees on developers to fund schools, road improvements and low and moderate-income housing. From time to time, various municipalities in which our homebuilding subsidiaries operate restrict or place moratoria on the availability of utilities, including water and sewer taps. Additionally, certain jurisdictions in which our homebuilding subsidiaries operate have proposed or enacted “slow growth” or “no growth” initiatives and other measures that may restrict the number of building permits available in any given year. These initiatives or other slow or no growth measures could reduce our ability to open new subdivisions and build and sell homes in the affected markets and may create additional costs and administration requirements, which in turn could negatively impact our future home sales and results of operations. Although future conditions or governmental actions may impact our ability to obtain necessary permits or water and sewer taps, we currently believe that we have, or can obtain, water and sewer taps and building permits for our homebuilding subsidiaries’ land inventory and land held for development. Our homebuilding operations also are affected by environmental laws and regulations pertaining to availability of water, municipal sewage treatment capacity, stormwater discharges, land use, hazardous waste disposal, dust controls, building materials, population density and preservation of endangered species, natural terrain and vegetation. Due to these considerations, our homebuilding subsidiaries generally obtain an environmental site assessment for parcels of land that they acquire. The particular environmental laws and regulations that apply to any given - 15 - Table of Contents homebuilding project vary greatly according to a particular site’s location, the site’s environmental conditions and the present and former uses. These environmental laws may result in project delays, cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs and/or prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in certain environmentally sensitive locations. We also are subject to rules and regulations with respect to originating, processing, selling and servicing mortgage loans, which, among other things: prohibit discrimination and establish underwriting guidelines; provide for audits and inspections; require appraisals and/or credit reports on prospective borrowers and disclosure of certain information concerning credit and settlement costs; establish maximum loan amounts; prohibit predatory lending practices; and regulate the referral of business to affiliated entities. The turmoil caused by the increased number of defaults in subprime and other mortgages has encouraged consumer lawsuits and the investigation of financial services industry practices by governmental authorities. These investigations could include the examination of consumer lending practices, sales of mortgages to financial institutions and other investors and the practices in the financial services segments of homebuilding companies. New rules and regulations or revised interpretations of existing rules and regulations applicable to our mortgage lending operations could result in more stringent compliance standards, which may substantially increase costs of compliance. Additionally, potential changes to regulations, including but not limited to the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA) could have a significant impact on the ability of our affiliated businesses to provide services to Richmond American Homes customers, which could have a significant negative impact on our financial and operating results. Product liability litigation and warranty claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly. As a homebuilder, we are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims, as well as claims associated with the sale and financing of our homes arising in the ordinary course of business. These types of claims can be costly. The costs of insuring against construction defect and product liability claims can be high and the amount of coverage offered by insurance companies may be limited. If we are not able to obtain adequate insurance against these claims, we may incur additional expenses that would have a negative impact on our results of operations in future reporting periods. Additionally, changes in the facts and circumstances of our pending litigation matters could have a material impact on our results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods. Our income tax provision or benefit and other tax liabilities may be insufficient if taxing authorities are successful in asserting tax positions that are contrary to our position. From time to time, we are audited by various federal and state authorities regarding income tax matters. Significant judgment is required to determine our provision or benefit for income taxes and our liabilities for federal and state income taxes. Our current audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal and, in some cases, litigation process. Although we believe our approach to determining the appropriate tax treatment is supportable, it is possible that the final tax authority will take a tax position that is materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision or benefit and other tax liabilities. As each audit is completed, adjustments, if any, are recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements in the period determined. Such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision or benefit, or other tax liabilities, in the reporting period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows for such period. The homebuilding industry is cyclical and affected by changes in general economic, real estate or other business conditions that could adversely affect our business or financial results. The homebuilding industry is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in industry conditions, as well as in general and local economic conditions, such as: • employment levels; - 16 - Table of Contents • availability of financing for homebuyers; • interest rates; • consumer confidence; • levels of new and existing homes for sale; • demographic trends; and • housing demand. These may occur on a national scale, like the current downturn, or may affect some of the regions or markets in which we operate more than others. When adverse conditions affect any of our larger markets, they could have a proportionately greater impact on us than on some other homebuilding companies. An oversupply of alternatives to new homes, including foreclosed homes, homes held for sale by investors and speculators, other existing homes, and rental properties, can also reduce our ability to sell new homes and depress new home prices and reduce our margins on the sales of new homes. High levels of foreclosures not only contribute to additional inventory available for sale, but also reduce appraisal valuations for new homes, potentially resulting in lower sales prices. Continued military deployments, terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or threats to national security, and any corresponding response by the United States or others, or related domestic or international instability, may adversely affect general economic conditions or cause a slowdown of the economy. As a result of the foregoing matters, potential customers may be less willing or able to buy our homes. In the future, our pricing strategies may continue to be limited by market conditions. We may be unable to change the mix of our home offerings, reduce the costs of the homes we build or offer more affordable homes to maintain our Home Gross Margins or satisfactorily address changing market conditions in other ways. In addition, Cancellations of home sales contracts in Backlog may increase as homebuyers choose to not honor their contracts. Our financial services business is closely related to our homebuilding business, as it originates mortgage loans principally to purchasers of the homes we build. A decrease in the demand for our homes because of the foregoing matters may also adversely affect the financial results of this segment of our business. An increase in the default rate on the mortgages we originate may adversely affect our ability to sell the mortgages or the pricing we receive upon the sale of mortgages or may increase our potential exposure regarding those mortgage loan sales. Because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, actual future obligations could differ significantly from our current estimates. Because of the seasonal nature of our business, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate. We may experience noticeable seasonality and quarter-to-quarter variability in homebuilding activity levels. In general, the number of homes closed and associated home sales revenue can increase during the third and fourth quarters, compared with the first and second quarters. We believe that this type of seasonality reflects the historical tendency of homebuyers to purchase new homes in the spring with closings scheduled in the fall or winter, as well as the scheduling of construction to accommodate seasonal weather conditions in certain markets. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, this seasonality pattern was not apparent in our financial or operating results. The extent to which historical seasonality patterns may have contributed to actual 2011, 2010 and 2009 home sales and closing levels is unknown, and there can be no assurances that this seasonality pattern will be apparent in future reporting periods. Supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries. The residential construction industry experiences labor and material shortages from time to time, including: work stoppages; labor disputes and shortages in qualified trades people, insulation, drywall, concrete, steel and lumber; lack - 17 - Table of Contents of availability of adequate utility infrastructure and services; our need to rely on local subcontractors who may not be adequately capitalized or insured; and shortages, delays in availability, or fluctuations in prices, of building materials. These labor and material shortages can be more severe during periods of strong demand for housing or during periods in which the markets where we operate experience natural disasters that have a significant impact on existing residential and commercial structures. Additionally, we could experience labor shortages as a result of subcontractors going out of business. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays in the start or completion of our residential communities, increase the cost of developing one or more of our residential communities and increase the construction cost of our homes. To the extent that market conditions prevent the recovery of increased costs, including, among other things, subcontracted labor, finished lots, building materials, and other resources, through higher selling prices, our Home Gross Margins and results of operations could be affected negatively. Increased costs of lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs. We generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into sales contracts, as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the homes at the time the contracts are signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. Sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our Home Gross Margins, particularly if pricing competition restricts our ability to pass on any additional costs of materials or labor, thereby decreasing our Home Gross Margins. Natural disasters could cause an increase in home construction costs, as well as delays, and could negatively impact our results of operations. The climates and geology of many of the markets in which we operate present increased risks of natural disasters. To the extent that hurricanes, severe storms, earthquakes, droughts, floods, heavy or prolonged precipitation, wildfires or other natural disasters or similar events occur, the financial and operating results of our business may be negatively impacted. We are dependent on the services of key employees, and the loss of their services could hurt our business. Although we believe that the Company has made provision for adequately staffing current operations, because of our efforts to “right-size” our organization during the past five years, retaining our skilled people has become a critical area of focus. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract, train and retain skilled personnel. If we are unable to retain our key employees or attract, train and retain other skilled personnel in the future, it could have an adverse impact on our financial and operating results. The interests of certain controlling shareholders may be adverse to investors. Larry A. Mizel, David D. Mandarich and other of our affiliates beneficially own, directly or indirectly, in the aggregate, approximately 25% of our common stock. To the extent they and their affiliates vote their shares in the same manner, their combined stock ownership may effectively give them the power to influence the election of members of our board of directors and other matters reserved for our shareholders. Circumstances may occur in which the interest of these shareholders could be in conflict with your interests. In addition, such persons may have an interest in pursuing transactions that, in their judgment, enhance the value of their equity investment in us, even though such transactions may involve risks to you. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. - 18 - Table of Contents 