ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Relating to our Business 11 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 15 ITEM 2. Properties 15 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 15 ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 16 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 17 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 19 ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 23 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 54 ITEM 8. Consolidated Financial Statements F-1 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 56 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 56 ITEM 9B. Other Information 58 PART III ITEM 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 58 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 58 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management 58 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 59 ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 59 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 60 SIGNATURES 66 (i) Table of Contents M.D.C. HOLDINGS, INC. FORM 10-K PART I Forward-Looking Statements. Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company’s Annual Report to Shareowners, as well as statements made by us in periodic press releases, oral statements made by our officials in the course of presentations about the Company and conference calls in connection with quarterly earnings releases, constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include statements regarding our business, financial condition, results of operation, cash flows, strategies and prospects. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. These factors include those described under the captions “Risk Factors Relating to our Business” in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, any further disclosures made on related subjects in subsequent reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K should be consulted. Item 1. Business. (a) General Development of Business M.D.C. Holdings, Inc. is a Delaware Corporation. We refer to M.D.C. Holdings, Inc. as the “Company,” “MDC,” “we” or “our” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and these designations include our subsidiaries unless we state otherwise. Our homebuilding segments consist of subsidiary companies that build and sell homes under the name “Richmond American Homes.” Richmond American Homes maintains operations in certain markets within the United States, including Arizona, California, Colorado, Delaware Valley (which includes Pennsylvania, Delaware and New Jersey), Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Nevada, Texas (although we are in the final stages of exiting this market), Utah and Virginia (which includes both Virginia and West Virginia). Our Financial Services and Other segment consists of HomeAmerican Mortgage Corporation (“HomeAmerican”), which originates mortgage loans primarily for our homebuyers, American Home Insurance Agency, Inc. (“American Home Insurance”), which offers third party insurance products to our homebuyers, and American Home Title and Escrow Company (“American Home Title”), which provides title agency services to our homebuyers in Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Nevada, Virginia, and West Virginia. This segment also includes Allegiant Insurance Company, Inc., A Risk Retention Group (“Allegiant”), which provides general liability insurance coverage for products and completed operations to the Company and, in most of the Company’s markets, to subcontractors of MDC’s homebuilding subsidiaries. In 2003, we formed StarAmerican Insurance Ltd. (“StarAmerican”), a Hawaii corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of MDC, which agreed to re-insure all claims pursuant to two policies issued to the Company by a third party. Pursuant to agreements beginning in June 2004, StarAmerican, agreed to re-insure all Allegiant claims in excess of $50,000 per occurrence, up to $3.0 million per occurrence, subject to various aggregate limits, which do not exceed $18,000,000 per year. (b) Available Information Our website is located at www.richmondamerican.com. This Annual Report on Form 10-K and all other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) can be accessed, free of charge, through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the report is filed electronically with the SEC, at http://ir.richmondamerican.com. 1 Table of Contents (c) Financial Information About Industry Segments Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contains information regarding our reportable segments for each of the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. (d) Narrative Description of Business Our business consists of two primary operations, homebuilding and financial services. In our homebuilding segments, we build and sell primarily single-family detached homes. Our homes are designed and built to meet local customer preferences. We are the general contractor for all of our projects and retain subcontractors for site development and home construction. The base selling prices for our homes ranged primarily from $200,000 to $600,000, although we also build a limited number of homes with base prices above $1.0 million. We maintain a variety of home styles in each of our markets, targeting what we believe to be the largest homebuyer segments within a given market, which generally are the first-time and first-time move-up homebuyer. As a result, more than 80% of our homebuyers fall into these two categories. Also, we build a limited number of homes for the second-time move-up and luxury homebuyer. When opening a new homebuilding subdivision, we seek to maintain no more than a two-year supply of lots to avoid overexposure to any single sub-market. When we acquire finished lots, we prefer using option contracts or paying in phases with cash. Also, we acquire entitled land for development into finished lots when we determine that the risk is justified. Our Asset Management Committees, which include certain members of MDC’s management, generally meet weekly to review all proposed land acquisitions and takedowns of lots under option. Additional information about our land acquisition practices may be found in the Homebuilding Operations, Land Acquisition and Development section. Homebuilding Operations. Our homebuilding subsidiaries sell and close homes in geographically diverse markets. Our home sales revenue by market is in the following table for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (dollars in thousands). Total Homes Sales Revenue Percent of Total 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 Arizona $ 980,409 $ 831,796 $ 627,331 21% 17% 16% California 998,471 1,075,900 1,078,063 21% 23% 27% Nevada 872,970 920,728 676,252 19% 19% 17% West 2,851,850 2,828,424 2,381,646 61% 59% 60% Colorado 450,392 627,042 614,919 10% 13% 16% Utah 277,743 204,496 113,579 6% 4% 3% Mountain 728,135 831,538 728,498 16% 17% 19% Maryland 246,492 191,365 161,561 5% 4% 4% Virginia 378,373 539,519 468,247 8% 11% 12% East 624,865 730,884 629,808 13% 15% 16% Delaware Valley 80,966 12,196 — 2% 0% 0% Florida 262,209 238,054 81,635 6% 5% 2% Illinois 63,925 33,490 994 1% 1% 0% Texas 65,560 128,289 109,432 1% 3% 3% Other Homebuilding 472,660 412,029 192,061 10% 9% 5% Intercompany adjustments (26,954 ) (10,175 ) (9,176 ) 0% 0% 0% Total $ 4,650,556 $ 4,792,700 $ 3,922,837 100% 100% 100% 2 Table of Contents Economies of Scale. We are a top ten homebuilding company in the United States based upon total revenue and a large homebuilding company in most of the markets in which we operate. We believe that our national, regional and local scale of operations have helped us control certain costs of our operations through benefits such as: • The ability to negotiate volume contracts with material suppliers and subcontractors; • Earlier opportunities to contract for large land parcels; • Availability of insurance coverage; and • Greater access to and lower cost of capital. Operating Divisions. At December 31, 2006, we had 23 separate homebuilding operating divisions, some of which operate in more than one market area. Generally, each operating division consists of a division president; land procurement, sales, construction, customer service, finance and purchasing personnel; and office staff. We believe that division presidents and their management teams, who are familiar with local market conditions, have the information needed to make decisions regarding local operations. Our division presidents receive performance-related bonuses based upon achieving targeted financial and operational results in their respective operating divisions. Regional and Corporate Management. We manage our homebuilding business through our regional offices. Some of our regional offices oversee operations in only one of our markets, and others oversee operations in more than one market. Generally, each regional office consists of a regional president, finance personnel, purchasing personnel and limited office support staff. Our regional presidents and their management teams, based on directives from our Chief Operating Officer, oversee the operations of multiple homebuilding divisions. These responsibilities include: • Review of division business plans and budgets; • Allocation of inventory investments within corporate guidelines; • Oversight of land and home inventory levels; and • Review of major personnel decisions. Our corporate executives and corporate and national departments generally are responsible for establishing and monitoring compliance with our policies and procedures. Among other things, the corporate office also has primary responsibility for: • Asset management and capital allocation; • Financial reporting; • Legal; • Information technology; • Internal audit; • Marketing; • Merchandising; • Training and development; • Risk management; and • Treasury. Housing. We build homes in a number of standardized series, designed to provide a variety of home styles to our potential homebuyers. Within each series, we build several models, each with a different floor plan and features that are both standard and optional. Differences in sales prices of similar models in any series depend 3 Table of Contents primarily upon demand, location, optional features and design specifications. The series of homes offered at a particular location are based on perceived customer preference, lot size, the area’s demographics and, in certain cases, the requirements of major land sellers and local municipalities. We seek to maintain limited levels of inventories of unsold homes in our markets. Unsold homes in various stages of completion allow us to meet the immediate and near-term demands of prospective homebuyers. In order to mitigate the risk of carrying excess inventory, we have strict procedures and limits on the number of our unsold homes under construction. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, we had 1,449 and 1,131 unsold homes under construction, respectively. The unsold homes under construction at December 31, 2006 consisted of 476 completed homes, 573 homes under construction and 400 homes with no more than a foundation completed. Land Acquisition and Development. We generally purchase finished lots using option contracts, in phases or in bulk for cash. On a limited basis, we acquire entitled land for development into finished lots when we believe that the risk is justified. In making land purchases, we consider a number of factors, including projected rates of return, estimated Home Gross Margins (as defined below), sales prices of the homes to be built, population and employment growth patterns, proximity to developed areas, estimated costs of development and demographic trends. Generally, we acquire finished lots and land for development only in areas that will have, among other things, available building permits, utilities and suitable zoning. We attempt to maintain a supply of finished lots sufficient to enable us to start homes promptly after a contract for a home sale is executed. This approach is intended to minimize our investment in inventories and reduce the risk of shortages of labor and building materials. Increases in the cost of finished lots have and may continue to reduce Home Gross Margins in the future to the extent that market conditions will not allow us to recover the higher cost of land through higher sales prices. We define “Home Gross Margins” to mean home sales revenue less home cost of sales (which primarily includes land and construction costs, capitalized interest, closing costs and a reserve for warranty expense, and excludes commissions, amortization of deferred marketing and impairment charges) as a percent of home sales revenue. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. We have the right to purchase a portion of the land we may acquire in the future utilizing option contracts, in some cases in phases for cash. Generally, in an option contract, we obtain the right to purchase lots in consideration for an option deposit in the form of cash or letters of credit. In the event we elect not to purchase the lots within a specified period of time, we forfeit the option deposit. Our option contracts generally do not contain provisions requiring our specific performance. At December 31, 2006, we had the right to acquire 8,097 lots under option contracts, with approximately $20.2 million and $14.2 million in non-refundable cash and letters of credit option deposits at risk, respectively. At December 31, 2006, the total purchase price for lots under option and total capitalized pre-acquisition costs were $779.3 million and $5.6 million, respectively. We own or have the right under option contracts to acquire undeveloped parcels of real estate that we intend to develop into finished lots. We develop our land in phases (generally fewer than 100 lots at a time for each home series in a subdivision) in order to limit our risk in a particular subdivision and to efficiently employ available funds. Building permits and utilities are available and zoning is suitable for the current intended use of substantially all of our undeveloped land. When developed, these lots generally will be used in our homebuilding activities. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. The table below shows the carrying value of land and land under development, by segment, at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (in thousands). December 31, 2006 2005 2004 West $ 980,666 $ 1,108,777 $ 671,985 Mountain 282,063 216,729 175,057 East 185,627 187,999 172,306 Other Homebuilding 126,802 164,443 109,918 Total $ 1,575,158 $ 1,677,948 $ 1,129,266 4 Table of Contents The table below shows the number of lots owned and controlled under option (excluding lots in housing completed or under construction), by segment, at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Lots Owned West 11,917 14,807 12,219 Mountain 4,664 4,603 4,855 East 1,171 1,462 1,630 Other Homebuilding 1,658 2,573 2,056 Total 19,410 23,445 20,760 Lots Controlled Under Option West 1,381 7,055 9,135 Mountain 892 2,616 2,082 East 3,341 4,397 4,347 Other Homebuilding 2,483 4,751 5,600 Total 8,097 18,819 21,164 Total Lots Owned and Controlled 27,507 42,264 41,924 At December 31, 2006, we owned a total of 19,410 lots, of which 12,994 lots were substantially finished. In addition, 1,106 of these finished lots were subject to home sales contracts for which construction had not started. The remaining 6,416 lots were unfinished and in the process of being developed for future home sales. The table below shows the amount of non-refundable option deposits (in thousands). December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Cash $ 20,228 $ 48,157 $ 41,804 Letters of Credit 14,224 23,142 22,062 Total Non-refundable Option Deposits $ 34,452 $ 71,299 $ 63,866 Labor and Raw Materials. For the most part, materials used in our homebuilding operations are standard items carried by major suppliers. We generally contract for our materials and labor at a fixed price for the anticipated construction period of our homes. This allows us to mitigate the risks associated with increases in building materials and labor costs between the time construction begins on a home and the time it is closed. Increases in the cost of building materials and subcontracted labor may reduce Home Gross Margins to the extent that market conditions prevent the recovery of increased costs through higher sales prices. From time to time and to varying degrees, we may experience shortages in the availability of building materials and/or labor in each of our markets. These shortages and delays may result in delays in the delivery of homes under construction, reduced Home Gross Margins, or both. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. Warranty. Our homes are sold with limited third party warranties that generally provide for ten years of structural coverage (“structural warranty”), two years of coverage for plumbing, electrical, heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems, and one year of coverage for workmanship and materials. Under our agreement with the issuer of the third party warranties, we are responsible for performing all of the work for the first two years of the warranty coverage, and substantially all of the work required to be performed during years three through ten of the warranties. As a result, warranty reserves are established as homes close on a house-by-house basis in an amount estimated to be adequate to cover expected costs of materials and outside labor during warranty periods. Reserves are determined based upon historical experience with respect to similar home styles and geographical areas. Certain factors are considered in determining the per-house reserve amount, including: (1) the historical range of amounts 5 Table of Contents paid per house; (2) the historical amount paid as a percent of home construction costs; (3) any warranty expenditures included in (1) and (2) not considered to be normal and recurring; (4) improvements in quality control and construction techniques expected to impact future warranty expenditures; and (5) conditions that may affect certain subdivisions and require higher per-house reserves for those specific subdivisions. Seasonal Nature of Business. We experience seasonal variations in our quarterly operating results and capital requirements. Typically, we do not commence significant construction on a home before a sales contract has been signed with a homebuyer. Historically, a significant percentage of our home sales contracts are made during our first and second fiscal quarters. Accordingly, we generally have more homes under construction, close more homes and have greater home sales revenue in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. Additionally, our financial position at the end of the third and fourth fiscal quarters is not necessarily representative of our financial position at the end of the first and second fiscal quarters. Due to a decline in demand for new homes during 2006, this pattern did not continue for the third and fourth quarter of 2006, and there can be no assurance that it will continue in the future. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. Backlog. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, homes under contract but not yet delivered (“Backlog”) totaled 3,638 and 6,532, respectively, with an estimated sales value of $1.3 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively. Our home order Cancellation Rates were 43.4% and 23.7% for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We define home order “Cancellation Rate” as total cancelled home order contracts during a specified period of time as a percent of total home orders received during such time period. Assuming we do not experience significant increases in our future Cancellation Rates, as we experienced in 2006 compared with 2005, and assuming no further significant long-standing deterioration in market conditions or rises in mortgage interest rates, we estimate that approximately 55% to 70% of our December 31, 2006 Backlog will close under existing sales contracts during 2007. The remaining 30% to 45% of the homes in Backlog are not expected to close under existing contracts due to cancellations. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. The table below discloses our Backlog for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 for each market within our homebuilding segments (dollars in thousands). December 31, 2006 Increase (Decrease) 2006 2005 Amount % Backlog (Units) Arizona 1,504 2,099 (595 ) -28% California 427 765 (338 ) -44% Nevada 315 1,023 (708 ) -69% West 2,246 3,887 (1,641 ) -42% Colorado 253 577 (324 ) -56% Utah 465 338 127 38% Mountain 718 915 (197 ) -22% Maryland 187 251 (64 ) -25% Virginia 136 381 (245 ) -64% East 323 632 (309 ) -49% Delaware Valley 119 181 (62 ) -34% Florida 197 599 (402 ) -67% Illinois 23 80 (57 ) -71% Texas 12 238 (226 ) -95% Other Homebuilding 351 1,098 (747 ) -68% Total 3,638 6,532 (2,894 ) -44% Estimated Backlog Sales Value $ 1,300,000 $ 2,440,000 $ (1,140,000 ) -47% Estimated Average Sales Price in Backlog $ 357.3 $ 373.5 $ (16.2 ) -4% 6 Table of Contents While we did experience a decrease in the number of homes in Backlog within each homebuilding segment at December 31, 2006, compared with December 31, 2005, it was most notable in our West segment. The decrease in the number of homes in Backlog related largely to fewer net home orders received in each homebuilding segment. The decrease in net home orders was driven by significant increases in our Cancellation Rate, fewer gross orders taken in each market within our homebuilding segments except Utah, Arizona, Maryland and Delaware Valley, and increases in competition resulting from higher inventory levels of new and existing homes. The estimated Backlog sales value decreased from $2.4 billion at December 31, 2005 to $1.3 billion at December 31, 2006, primarily due to the 44% decrease in homes in Backlog and a 4% decrease in the estimated average selling price of homes in Backlog. This decrease was most notable in our West segment, where the estimated Backlog sales value decreased by more than $200 million in each market of this segment. Estimated Backlog sales value also declined during 2006, compared with 2005, in each market of our East and Other Homebuilding segments. Our Mountain segment remained relatively flat at December 31, 2006, compared with December 31, 2005, where we experienced a higher estimated Backlog sales value in Utah, offset by a decrease in Colorado. The increase in Utah primarily was due to higher Backlog at December 31, 2006, compared with December 31, 2005, and an increase in the estimated average selling price of homes in Backlog. Customer Service and Quality Control. Our operating divisions are responsible for pre-closing quality control inspections and responding to customers’ post-closing needs. During 2006, we created a product service and quality control task force comprised of division, regional and corporate employees of different departments. This task force performed a thorough analysis of our product service quality and, based upon the results of this analysis, designed and began implementation of a revised customer experience initiative. This is a multi-year initiative that is focused on making improvements in our customers’ complete home buying and homeownership experience, with a concentration on product and service quality. Our Nevada market was the first to roll out phase-one of the initiative in the fourth quarter of 2006. We are working to improve our customers’ experience with proactive communications throughout their home buying and new homeownership experience. Marketing and Sales. We strategically evaluate our marketing and sales programs and initiatives in order to achieve cost savings without compromising the quality of these initiatives. To effectively communicate our Richmond American brand, we established an in-house advertising and marketing department several years ago, which controls the quality and consistency in the communication of our brand while achieving cost savings for the Company. The main objective of this department is to direct qualified homebuyers to our sales offices, Home Galleries, Homebuyer Resource Centers and website. In addition, our in-house corporate communications team rounds out our consistent marketing focus in managing our public relations and employee communications and our interactive marketing team maintains our richmondamerican.com website. To complement our marketing efforts, our in-house merchandising team further maximizes our Richmond American brand in furnishing our model homes and sales offices, while limiting our costs by avoiding the use of outside providers. Our in-house team of interior designers directs the merchandising plan for these homes, resulting in a strong, consistent overall presentation. We believe that all employees who serve our homebuyers should represent us professionally. Therefore, our on-site Sales Associates, Design Consultants and New Home Specialists undergo training in order to help meet customer needs and communicate the “Richmond American” brand. Home Gallery and Design Center. Another important part of our marketing presentation takes place in our design centers, which are located in most of MDC’s homebuilding markets. Homebuyers are able to customize certain features of their homes by selecting from a variety of options and upgrades. In 2004, we launched our new Home Gallery concept in certain markets. These Home Galleries combine sales support and offer thousands of options for personalizing new homes. These retail locations also serve as a resource to homebuyers who are interested in purchasing a new Richmond American home. Prospective homebuyers can receive individualized attention from a trained team of new home specialists, resulting in a more focused, efficient home search. 7 Table of Contents Competition. The homebuilding industry is fragmented and highly competitive. We compete with numerous homebuilders, including a number that are larger and have greater financial resources. Homebuilders compete for customers, desirable financing, land, building materials and subcontractor labor. Competition for home orders primarily is based upon price, style, financing provided to prospective purchasers, location of property, quality of homes built, customer service and general reputation in the community. We also compete with subdivision developers and land development companies when acquiring land. During 2006, we experienced increased competition affecting our ability to raise home prices and requiring us, in many instances, to provide substantial incentives to our customers, which negatively impacted our home sales revenue and net income. These competitive pressures are likely to continue for some time and will affect our ability to maintain existing home prices and require that we provide substantial incentives, which will negatively impact our home sales revenue and net income. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. Mortgage Interest Rates. Our homebuilding operations are dependent upon the availability and cost of mortgage financing. Increases in home mortgage interest rates may reduce the demand for homes and home mortgages which could negatively impact our business. We are unable to predict future changes in home mortgage interest rates or the impact such changes may have on our operating activities and results of operations. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. Regulation. Our homebuilding operations are subject to continuing compliance requirements mandated by applicable federal, state and local statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations, including zoning and land use ordinances, building codes, contractors’ licensing laws, state insurance laws, federal and state human resources laws and regulations and health and safety laws and regulations (including, but not limited to, those of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration). Various localities in which we operate have imposed (or may impose in the future) fees on developers to fund schools, road improvements and low and moderate-income housing. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. From time to time, various municipalities in which we operate restrict or place moratoria on the availability of utilities, including water and sewer taps. Additionally, certain jurisdictions in which we operate have proposed or enacted growth initiatives that may restrict the number of building permits available in any given year. Although no assurances can be given as to future conditions or governmental actions, we believe that in general we have, or can obtain, water and sewer taps and building permits for our land inventory and land held for development. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. Our homebuilding operations also are affected by environmental laws and regulations pertaining to availability of water, municipal sewage treatment capacity, stormwater discharges, land use, hazardous waste disposal, dust control, building materials, population density and preservation of endangered species, natural terrain and vegetation. Due to these considerations, we generally obtain an environmental site assessment for parcels of land that we acquire. The particular environmental laws and regulations that apply to any given homebuilding subdivision vary greatly according to the site’s location, the site’s environmental conditions and the present and former uses of the site. These environmental laws and regulations may result in delays, causing us to incur substantial compliance and other costs, and/or prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in certain environmentally sensitive regions or areas. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. Bonds and Letters of Credit. In many cases, we are required to obtain bonds and letters of credit in support of our related obligations primarily related to subdivision improvements, homeowners association dues and start-up expenses, warranty work, contractors’ license fees and earnest money deposits. At December 31, 2006, we had outstanding performance bonds and letters of credit totaling $388.6 million and $83.8 million, respectively, including $26.8 million issued by HomeAmerican. In certain states, unless we take measures to release state regulatory imposed restrictions on earnest money deposits (“Deposits”) received from a homebuyer in conjunction with a home sale, which may include posting blanket security bonds, we are restricted from using these Deposits for general purposes. Accordingly, at 8 Table of Contents December 31, 2006 and 2005, we had $10.5 million and $12.5 million outstanding in blanket security bonds used to release restrictions on certain Deposits. Additionally, we had $2.6 million and $6.7 million in restricted cash related to Deposits at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We monitor, on a regular basis, the amount of Deposits we hold in certain states to confirm that our blanket security bonds exceed the amount of the Deposits. In the event any such bonds or letters of credit issued by third parties are called, we would be obligated to reimburse the issuer of the bond or letter of credit. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. Financial Services Operations. Mortgage Lending Operations. General. HomeAmerican is a full-service mortgage lender and is the principal originator of mortgage loans for our homebuyers. Through office locations in each of our markets and a centralized loan origination center, HomeAmerican originates mortgage loans primarily for our homebuyers. HomeAmerican also brokers mortgage loans for origination by outside lending institutions for our homebuyers. HomeAmerican is authorized to originate Federal Housing Administration-insured (“FHA”), Veterans Administration-guaranteed (“VA”), Federal National Mortgage Association (“FNMA”), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“FHLMC”) (together “the government sponsored entities”) and other private investor mortgage loans. HomeAmerican also is an authorized loan servicer for FNMA, FHLMC and the Government National Mortgage Association (“GNMA”) and, as such, is subject to the rules and regulations of these organizations. Additionally, during 2006, HomeAmerican increased its volume of originated second mortgage loans and Alternative A loans (as defined below). The Company expects that it will continue offering these product types during 2007 and will evaluate additional product offerings to meet the demands of our homebuyers. We define Alternative A loans as loans that would otherwise qualify as prime loans except that they do not comply in all ways with the documentation standards of the government sponsored enterprise guidelines. Substantially all of the mortgage loans originated by HomeAmerican are sold to third party purchasers within 45 days of origination. We use HomeAmerican’s secured warehouse line of credit, other borrowings and Company generated funds to finance these mortgage loans until they are sold. During the 2005 fourth quarter, we initiated an early purchase program, whereby we sell certain mortgage loans originated by HomeAmerican to a third party purchaser shortly after the close of a home. This program improves our overall available funds by enabling us to sell mortgage loans originated by HomeAmerican more quickly. Accordingly, for mortgage loans sold pursuant to this program, the number of days a loan is held in inventory has been reduced from the historical 45 days to less than five days. Concurrent with the sale of mortgage loans to third party purchasers, HomeAmerican generally sells the rights to service those loans. HomeAmerican’s portfolio of mortgage loan servicing for others at December 31, 2006 consisted of 265 loans with an unpaid principal balance of approximately $10.7 million, and did not contribute significantly to the results of operations of the Company. Historically, a substantial portion of our originated mortgage loans have been sold to one third party purchaser. It is reasonably likely that we will continue to depend on its ability and willingness to purchase a significant number of our loans originated. During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we sold approximately 54%, 68% and 37%, respectively, of our mortgage loans originated to this third party purchaser. Pipeline. HomeAmerican’s mortgage loans in process that had not closed (the “Pipeline”) at December 31, 2006 had an aggregate principal balance of $876 million, of which $57.2 million were under interest rate lock commitments (“IRLC”) at an average interest rate of 6.60%. In addition, HomeAmerican had approximately $212.9 million of mortgage loans in inventory available for sale at 9 Table of Contents December 31, 2006. HomeAmerican uses forward sales of mortgage-backed securities and commitments to sell whole loans to hedge the interest rate risk inherent in the IRLC and its loan inventory available for sale. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. Forward Sales Commitments. HomeAmerican is exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on its mortgage loan inventory. Derivative instruments utilized in the normal course of business by HomeAmerican include forward sales of mortgage-backed securities, commitments to sell whole loans and commitments to originate mortgage loans. HomeAmerican utilizes forward mortgage securities contracts to manage the price risk on fluctuations in interest rates on our mortgage loans owned and the IRLC. Such contracts are the only significant financial derivative instruments utilized by us and are generally settled within 45 days of origination. Certain mortgage loans originated by HomeAmerican are sold pursuant to the aforementioned early purchase program and generally are settled within five days of origination. Due to this hedging philosophy, the market risk associated with HomeAmerican’s mortgages is limited. Reported gains on sales of mortgage loans may vary significantly from period to period depending on the volatility in the interest rate market. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. Competition. The mortgage industry is fragmented and highly competitive. In each of the locations in which it originates loans, HomeAmerican competes with numerous banks, thrifts and other mortgage bankers, many of which are larger and have greater financial resources. Competitive factors include pricing, loan terms, underwriting criteria and customer service. Insurance Operations. Our insurance operations consist of three business divisions: (1) Allegiant; (2) StarAmerican; and (3) American Home Insurance. Allegiant was organized as a risk retention group under the Federal Liability Risk Retention Act of 1981. Allegiant is licensed as a Class 3 Stock Insurance Company by the Division of Insurance of the State of Hawaii and began operations in June of 2004. Allegiant provides general liability coverage for products and completed operations to the Company, its subsidiaries and some subcontractors of MDC’s homebuilding subsidiaries. Allegiant seeks to provide to its customers coverage and rates that are competitive with other insurers. Rates charged and coverage provided by Allegiant are determined in reliance on, among other things, actuarial studies that take into consideration historical and industry trends involving claims, claims payment patterns, levels of unpaid claims, professional experience and the changing regulatory and legal environment. StarAmerican is a single parent captive insurance company licensed by the Division of Insurance of the State of Hawaii and is a wholly owned subsidiary of MDC. In consideration of an annual reinsurance premium, and pursuant to agreements beginning in June 2004, StarAmerican has agreed to re-insure Allegiant for all claims in excess of $50,000 per occurrence up to $3,000,000 per occurrence, subject to various aggregate limits, which do not exceed $18,000,000 per year. Allegiant and StarAmerican were formed to provide insurance coverage for risks as to which we believe coverage was either too difficult or too expensive to obtain. American Home Insurance provides homebuyers with personal lines property and casualty insurance products in the same markets as our homebuilding subsidiaries. Title Operations. American Home Title provides title agency services to our homebuyers in Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Nevada, Virginia, and West Virginia. We are evaluating opportunities to provide title agency services in other markets. 10 Table of Contents Employees. At December 31, 2006, we employed approximately 3,200 employees. We consider our employee relations to be satisfactory. Item 1A. Risk Factors Relating to our Business. The homebuilding industry historically has been cyclical and it is now experiencing the first downturn in a number of years. Continuation of this downturn may result in a continuing reduction in our home sales revenue, lower net income or higher net loss. The homebuilding industry historically has been cyclical, and it is now experiencing the first downturn in a number of years. Prior to this downturn, we experienced significant home price appreciation in many of our markets. These home price increases were caused by a combination of market conditions in each of our markets. To the extent that our home prices become substantially less affordable to our first-time and first-time move-up homebuyers, prices will no longer increase and may decline, which would negatively impact our home sales revenue. In addition, the significant price appreciation experienced during 2004 and 2005 in many of our markets resulted in a significant increase in the production of new homes, speculators purchasing new homes with the hope of reselling these homes for a quick profit, and existing homeowners putting their existing homes on the resale market. All of these factors combined have resulted in a significant increase in the supply of homes available for sale, which has had, and will continue to have, a significant negative impact on demand for new homes and a decrease in the number of net home orders. A continued slowdown in the homebuilding industry could result in a continued decline in home sales revenue, lower net income or higher net loss. Adverse changes in general economic conditions could reduce the demand for homes and, as a result, could result in lower net income or higher net loss. Changes in national, regional and local economic conditions where our subsidiaries conduct operations and where prospective homebuyers live, can have a significant negative impact on our business. Adverse changes in employment levels, job growth, consumer confidence and population growth may reduce demand for new homes and depress prices for our homebuilding subsidiaries’ homes. This, in turn, can reduce our net income through slower orders for new homes, increased cancellations of existing home orders and decreased Backlog, as well as require increased incentive levels in an effort to maintain homes in Backlog. A material decline in the value of new residential housing also could result in a decreased value for the land, housing inventory and housing work-in-progress that we own. Further decline during this pronounced down cycle in the homebuilding industry, particularly in Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada and Virginia, could continue to cause demand for our homes and land that we own to weaken significantly, which could have a significant negative impact on our Home Gross Margins and home sales revenue, resulting in lower net income or higher net loss in future reporting periods. Competition in the homebuilding industry could result in lower net income or higher net loss. The real estate industry is fragmented and highly competitive. Our homebuilding subsidiaries compete with numerous homebuilders, including a number that are substantially larger and have greater financial resources. Our homebuilding subsidiaries also compete with subdivision developers and land development companies, some of which are themselves homebuilders or affiliates of homebuilders. Homebuilders compete for customers, desirable financing, land, building materials and subcontractor labor. Competition for home orders primarily is based upon price, style, financing provided to prospective purchasers, location of property, quality of homes built, customer service and general reputation in the community. We, through our mortgage lending subsidiary, HomeAmerican, also compete with numerous banks, thrifts and other mortgage bankers, many of which are larger and have greater financial resources than we do. During 2006, we experienced increased competition affecting our ability to raise home prices and requiring us in many instances to provide substantial incentives to 11 Table of Contents our homebuyers, which negatively impacted our home sales revenue and net income. These competitive pressures are likely to continue for some time and will affect our ability to maintain existing home prices and require that we provide substantial incentives, which will negatively impact our home sales revenue and net income. Increases in our Cancellation Rate could have a significant negative impact on our Home Gross Margins and home sales revenue. Our Cancellation Rate increased significantly during 2006, compared with 2004 and 2005 levels, which has negatively impacted the number of closed homes, net home orders, homes in Backlog at December 31, 2006 and home sales revenue and net income during 2006. Continued high Cancellation Rates resulting from a number of factors, including, slower home price appreciation, increases in the supply of homes available to be purchased, higher mortgage interest rates, increased competition and adverse changes in economic conditions, could have a significant negative impact on our home sales revenue and result in lower net income or higher net loss in future reporting periods. If land is not available at reasonable prices, our sales and net income could decrease. Our operations depend on our homebuilding subsidiaries’ ability to obtain land for the development of our residential communities at reasonable prices and with terms that meet our strict underwriting criteria. Our ability to obtain land for new residential communities may be adversely affected by changes in the general availability of land, competition for available land, availability of financing to acquire land, zoning, regulations that limit housing density and other market conditions. If the supply of land appropriate for development of our residential communities becomes more limited because of these factors, or for any other reason, the cost of land could increase and/or the number of homes that our homebuilding subsidiaries build and sell could be reduced. During 2006, compared with 2005, we incurred an increase of $19.3 million in the write-offs of option deposits and pre-acquisition costs due to the deterioration in market conditions and our election not to purchase lots under existing lot option contracts that did not meet our underwriting criteria. If the market value of our homes or carrying value of our land drops significantly, we would incur lower net income or higher net loss. The fair value of our land and housing inventories depends on market conditions. Our homebuilding subsidiaries acquire land for the replacement of land inventory and expansion within our current markets and may, from time to time, purchase land for expansion into new markets. If demand for new homes continues to decrease, we may not be able to recover our costs when our homebuilding subsidiaries build and sell homes, which would have a significant negative impact on our Home Gross Margins and net income. During the year ended December 31, 2006, we recorded $109.4 million in inventory impairments, primarily relating to the decrease in the fair market value of our homebuilding inventories. Additionally, in future periods, if it should appear that we may not be able to recover our costs of inventory upon building and selling homes, we may be required to record additional impairments of our inventory, which would result in lower net income or higher net loss in future reporting periods. We depend on certain markets, and reduced demand for homes in these markets could reduce home sales revenue. We still conduct a significant portion of our business in the Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada and Virginia markets and generate a disproportionate amount of our revenue and net income in these markets. Demand for new homes and home price appreciation declined during 2006 in each of these markets. If we continue to experience a slowdown in our operations within these markets, our net income and financial position will continue to be negatively impacted. 12 Table of Contents Interest rate increases or changes in federal lending programs could lower demand for our homes and our mortgage lending services. Our homebuilding and mortgage lending operations are impacted by the availability and cost of mortgage financing. Nearly all of our customers finance the purchase of their homes, and a significant number of these customers arrange their financing through our mortgage lending subsidiary, HomeAmerican. Increases in home mortgage interest rates may reduce the demand for homes and home mortgages. We are unable to predict the extent to which recent or future changes in home mortgage interest rates will affect our operating activities and results of operations. In addition, we believe that the availability of FNMA, FHLMC, FHA, VA, Alternative A, interest only and low down payment mortgage financing is an important factor in our marketing strategy. Any changes, limitations or restrictions on the availability of these types of financing could reduce our subsidiaries’ home sales and mortgage lending volume. Increased originations of second mortgage loans and Alternative A, loans could negatively impact our net income. During 2006, HomeAmerican increased the volume of second mortgage loans and Alternative A loans that it originates. HomeAmerican expects that it will continue offering these product types during 2007 and will evaluate additional product offerings to meet the demands of our homebuyers. As a result, the Company is subject to risks associated with the origination of these loan types, which may include risks relating to non-performance on the part of the homebuyer, HomeAmerican’s ability to sell these loans to third party purchasers or HomeAmerican’s ability to sell these loans at market prices that are deemed acceptable. These risks could negatively impact our net income or cash from operations. We are reliant on a limited number of third party purchasers of mortgage loans originated by HomeAmerican, which could impact our results of operations. Historically, a substantial portion of our originated mortgage loans have been sold to one third party purchaser. It is likely that we will continue to depend on its ability and willingness to purchase a significant number of our mortgage loans originated. Should this purchaser discontinue or significantly reduce the number of loans it is willing to purchase from us, our ability to timely sell HomeAmerican originated mortgage loans could be significantly impacted, which could result in lower revenue and net income in a given reporting period. During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we sold approximately 54%, 68% and 37%, respectively, of the mortgage loans we originated to this third party purchaser. If our potential homebuyers are not able to obtain suitable financing, our business may decline. Our business depends on interest rates and the ability of our homebuyers to obtain affordable mortgages for the purchase of our homes. Increases in the cost of mortgage financing could prevent homebuyers from purchasing our homes. In addition, if our homebuyers must sell an existing home in order to buy a home from us, increases in mortgage costs could interfere with such a sale and result in our homebuyers’ inability to buy a home from us. Additionally, the increased use of adjustable-rate mortgage products, including interest-only mortgages, could affect the ability of existing homeowners to obtain suitable financing for their homes at the end of their adjustable-rate term. This has led, and could continue to lead, to an increase in home foreclosures, thereby creating additional competition from higher unsold home inventory levels. These conditions have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, our home sales revenue and net income. Labor and material shortages could cause delays in the construction of our homes. The residential construction industry experiences labor and material shortages from time to time, including: work stoppages; labor disputes and shortages in qualified trades people, insulation, drywall, concrete, steel and 13 Table of Contents lumber; lack of availability of adequate utility infrastructure and services; our need to rely on local subcontractors who may not be adequately capitalized or insured; and shortages, or delays in availability, or fluctuations in prices, of building materials. These labor and material shortages can be more severe during periods of strong demand for housing or during periods in which the markets where we operate experience natural disasters that have a significant impact on existing residential and commercial structures. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays in the start or completion of our residential communities, increase the cost of developing one or more of our residential communities and increase the construction cost of our homes. To the extent that market conditions prevent the recovery of increased costs, including among other things, subcontracted labor, finished lots, building materials, and other resources, through higher selling prices, our Home Gross Margins could be affected negatively. Natural disasters could cause an increase in home construction costs, as well as delays, and could result in reduced net income. The climates and geology of many of the markets in which we operate, including California and Florida, present increased risks of natural disasters. To the extent that hurricanes, severe storms, earthquakes, droughts, floods, heavy or prolonged precipitation, wildfires or other natural disasters or similar events occur, the net income of our business in particular, may be negatively impacted. These, among other natural disasters, can affect an area in which we build, or one nearby, and result in a diversion of labor and materials in the area from new home construction to the rebuilding of the existing homes damaged or destroyed in the natural disaster. This can cause delays in construction and delivery of new homes and/or increase our construction costs. Because of the seasonal nature of our business, our quarterly operating results fluctuate. We experience seasonal variations in our quarterly operating results and capital requirements. Typically, we do not commence significant construction on a home before a sales contract has been signed with a homebuyer. A significant percentage of our home sales contracts are made during our first and second fiscal quarters. Accordingly, we generally have more homes under construction, close more homes and have higher home sales revenue in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. Additionally, our financial position at the end of the third and fourth fiscal quarters is not necessarily representative of our financial position at the end of the first and second fiscal quarters. Due to a decline in demand for new homes during 2006, this pattern did not continue for the third and fourth quarters of 2006, and there can be no assurance that it will continue in the future. Our business is subject to numerous environmental and other governmental regulations. These regulations could give rise to significant additional liabilities or expenditures, or restrictions on our business. Our operations are subject to continuing compliance requirements mandated by applicable federal, state and local statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations, including zoning and land use ordinances, building, plumbing and electrical codes, contractors’ licensing laws, state insurance laws, federal and state human resources laws and regulations and health and safety laws and regulations (including, but not limited to, those of the Occupational Safety & Health Administration). Various localities in which we operate have imposed (or may impose in the future) fees on developers to fund schools, road improvements and low and moderate income housing. From time to time, various municipalities in which our homebuilding subsidiaries operate restrict or place moratoria on the availability of utilities, including water and sewer taps. Additionally, certain jurisdictions in which our homebuilding subsidiaries operate have proposed or enacted “slow growth” or “no growth” initiatives and other ballot measures that may restrict the number of building permits available in any given year. These initiatives or other slow or no growth measures could reduce our ability to open new home communities and build and sell homes in the affected markets and may create additional costs and administration requirements, which in turn could negatively impact our future home sales and net income. Although future conditions or governmental actions may impact our ability to obtain necessary permits or water and sewer taps, we currently believe that we have, or can obtain, water and sewer taps and building permits for our homebuilding subsidiaries’ land inventory and land held for development. 14 Table of Contents Our homebuilding operations also are affected by environmental laws and regulations pertaining to availability of water, municipal sewage treatment capacity, stormwater discharges, land use, hazardous waste disposal, dust controls, building materials, population density and preservation of endangered species, natural terrain and vegetation. Due to these considerations, our homebuilding subsidiaries generally obtain an environmental site assessment for parcels of land that they acquire. The particular environmental laws and regulations that apply to any given homebuilding project vary greatly according to a particular site’s location, the site’s environmental conditions and the present and former uses. These environmental laws may result in project delays, cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs and/or prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in certain environmentally sensitive regions or areas. Product liability litigation and warranty claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly. As a homebuilder, we are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims, including moisture intrusion and related mold claims, arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common to the homebuilding industry and can be costly. In addition, the costs of insuring against construction defect and product liability claims are high and the amount of coverage offered by insurance companies is currently limited. This coverage may be further restricted and become more costly. If we are not able to obtain adequate insurance against these claims, we may experience losses that could have a negative impact on our net income. Future terrorist attacks against the United States or increased domestic and international instability could have an adverse effect on our operations. A future terrorist attack against the United States could cause a sharp decrease in the number of net home order contracts to be signed and an increase in the cancellation of existing contracts. Similarly, adverse developments in the war on terrorism, future terrorist attacks against the United States, or increased domestic and international instability could adversely affect our business. The interests of certain controlling shareholders may be adverse to investors. Larry A. Mizel, David D. Mandarich and other of our affiliates own, directly or indirectly, in the aggregate, almost 25% of our outstanding common stock. To the extent they and their affiliates vote their shares in the same manner, their combined stock ownership may effectively give them the power to elect our entire board of directors and control our management, operations and affairs. Circumstances may occur in which the interest of these shareholders could be in conflict with the interests of other shareholders. The large percentage of stock held by these persons could also delay or prevent a change in control of the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 