ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Relating to our Business 11 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 15 ITEM 2. Properties 15 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings 15 ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 15 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 16 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data 17 ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 20 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 40 ITEM 8. Consolidated Financial Statements F-1 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 41 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures 41 ITEM 9B. Other Information 43 PART III ITEM 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 43 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation 43 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management 43 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 44 ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 44 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 45 SIGNATURES 51 Fifth Amendment to Third Amended and Restated Warehousing Credit Agreement Rollover Amendment to 401(k) Savings Plan Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges Schedule Subsidiaries of the Company Consent of Ernst & Young LLP Certification of CEO Pursuant to Section 302 Certification of CFO Pursuant to Section 302 Certification of CEO Pursuant to Section 906 Certification of CFO Pursuant to Section 906 (i) Table of Contents M.D.C. HOLDINGS, INC. FORM 10-K PART I Forward-Looking Statements. Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company’s Annual Report to Shareowners, as well as statements made by us in periodic press releases, oral statements made by our officials in the course of presentations about the Company and conference calls in connection with quarterly earnings releases, constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include statements regarding our business, financial condition, results of operation, cash flows, strategies and prospects. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements contained in this Report are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. These factors include those described under the captions “Risk Factors Relating to our Business” in Item 1A of this Report. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, any further disclosures made on related subjects in subsequent reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K should be consulted. Item 1. Business. (a) General Development of Business M.D.C. Holdings, Inc. is a Delaware Corporation. We refer to M.D.C. Holdings, Inc. as the “Company,” “MDC,” “we” or “our” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and these designations include our subsidiaries unless we state otherwise. Our primary business is owning and managing subsidiary companies that sell and build homes under the name “Richmond American Homes.” Richmond American Homes maintains operations in certain markets within the United States, including Arizona, California, Colorado, Delaware Valley (which includes Pennsylvania, Delaware and New Jersey), Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Nevada, Texas (although we recently reported our decision not to contract for the acquisition of additional land in our Texas markets), Utah and Virginia. We believe a significant presence in these markets enables us to compete effectively for homebuyers, land acquisitions and subcontractor labor. Our financial services segment consists of HomeAmerican Mortgage Corporation (“HomeAmerican”), which originates mortgage loans primarily for our homebuyers, and American Home Insurance Agency, Inc. (“American Home Insurance”), which offers third party insurance products to our homebuyers. In addition, we provide title agency services through American Home Title and Escrow Company (“American Home Title”) to our homebuyers in Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Texas, Virginia, and West Virginia. The following is a summary of our history: 1972 – Founded as Mizel Development Corporation and completed initial public offering. 1977 – Created Richmond Homes Limited and entered the Colorado homebuilding market. 1983 – Created HomeAmerican Mortgage Corporation, entered the Arizona homebuilding market through the acquisition of Cavalier Homes of Arizona and entered the Florida* homebuilding market through the acquisition of Olin American of Florida. 1985 – Entered the Northern and Southern California homebuilding markets and expanded these operations through the acquisition of Ponderosa Homes of Southern California. 1986 – Entered the Texas* and suburban Washington D.C., including Maryland and Virginia, homebuilding markets through the acquisition of Wood Bros. Homes, Inc. 1987 – Entered the Nevada homebuilding market. 1995 – Expanded our Southern California operations through the purchase of the assets of Mesa Homes, thereby significantly increasing our presence in the Inland Empire. 1996 – Expanded our Nevada operations through the purchase of the assets of Longford Homes. 1 Table of Contents 2002 – Entered the Utah homebuilding market and expanded our Nevada and Virginia operations through the purchase of the assets of John Laing Homes in these markets, and also re-entered the Texas homebuilding market. 2003 – Entered the Delaware Valley and Illinois homebuilding markets, and re-entered the Florida homebuilding market through the purchase of the assets of Crawford Homes, Inc. in Jacksonville. 2004 – Expanded our Florida operations through the purchase of the assets of Watson Home Builders, Inc. in Jacksonville and expanded our Delaware Valley operations by acquiring control of approximately 600 residential lots from Patriot Homes, LLC, and others, in southern New Jersey. 2005 – Expanded our California operations by acquiring control of approximately 1,200 finished residential lots in the Central Valley of California from Del Valle Homes. * We ceased homebuilding operations in Florida and Texas in 1988 and 1990, respectively, and re-entered these markets in 2002 and 2003, respectively. (b) Available Information Our website is located at www.richmondamerican.com. This Annual Report on Form 10-K and all other reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) can be accessed, free of charge, through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the report is filed electronically with the SEC, at http://www.investorrelations.richmondamerican.com/edgar.cfm. (c) Financial Information About Industry Segments Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contains information regarding our business segments for each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. (d) Narrative Description of Business Our business consists of two segments, homebuilding and financial services. In our homebuilding segment, our homebuilding subsidiaries build and sell primarily single-family detached homes, although we build some townhomes in certain markets. Our homes are designed and built to meet local customer preferences. We are the general contractor for all of our projects and retain subcontractors for site development and home construction. Our financial services segment consists of the operations of HomeAmerican and American Home Insurance. HomeAmerican is a full service mortgage lender with offices located in each of our markets and originates or brokers mortgage loans for approximately 70% of our homebuyers. As a result, HomeAmerican is an integral part of our business. The base prices for our homes primarily range from $150,000 to $650,000, although we also build homes with base prices above $1.6 million. The average sales price of our homes closed in 2005 and 2004 was $313,800 and $283,400, respectively. We maintain a variety of product offerings in each of our markets, targeting what we believe to be, based upon our experience within the homebuilding industry, the largest homebuyer segments within a given market, which generally are the first-time and first-time move-up buyer. As a result, more than 80% of our homebuyers fall into these two categories. Also, we build a limited number of homes for the second-time move-up and luxury buyer. When opening a new homebuilding project, we seek to maintain a two-year supply of lots to avoid overexposure to any single sub-market. When we acquire finished lots, we prefer using option contracts or paying in phases with cash. Also, we acquire entitled land for development into finished lots when we determine that the risk is justified. Our Asset Management Committees, which include members of MDC’s senior management, generally meet weekly to review all proposed land acquisitions and takedowns of lots under option. Additional information about our land acquisition practices may be found in the Homebuilding Segment, Land Acquisition and Development section. 2 Table of Contents Homebuilding Segment. Our operations sell and close homes in geographically diversified markets. Our home sales revenue by market is in the following table for the years 2003 through 2005 (dollars in thousands). Total Homes Sales Revenue Percent of Total 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 Arizona $ 831,796 $ 627,331 $ 547,697 17 % 16 % 19 % California 1,075,900 1,078,063 748,337 23 % 27 % 26 % Colorado 627,042 614,919 675,236 13 % 16 % 24 % Delaware Valley 12,196 — — 0 % — — Florida 238,054 81,635 15,655 5 % 2 % 1 % Illinois 33,490 994 — 1 % 0 % — Maryland 191,365 161,561 112,975 4 % 4 % 4 % Nevada 920,728 676,252 383,659 19 % 17 % 13 % Texas 128,289 109,432 26,143 3 % 3 % 1 % Utah 204,496 113,579 48,331 4 % 3 % 2 % Virginia 539,519 468,247 293,295 11 % 12 % 10 % Total $ 4,802,875 $ 3,932,013 $ 2,851,328 100 % 100 % 100 % Economies of Scale. We are a large homebuilding company in the United States, as well as most of the markets in which we operate, in terms of number of homes closed in fiscal 2005 and consolidated revenues. Our economies of scale have contributed to improvements in homebuilding operating margins. We believe that our national, regional and local scale of operations have provided us with benefits such as: • The ability to negotiate volume contracts with material suppliers and subcontractors; • Earlier opportunities to contract for large land parcels; • Availability of insurance coverage; and • Greater access to and lower cost of capital. Operating Divisions. At December 31, 2005, we had 27 separate homebuilding operating divisions, some of which are in the same market area and some of which operate in more than one market area. Generally, each operating division consists of a division president; land procurement, sales, construction, customer service, finance, and purchasing personnel; and office staff. We believe that division presidents and their management teams, who are familiar with local market conditions, have better information on which to base decisions regarding local operations. Our division presidents receive performance bonuses based upon achieving targeted financial and operational results in their respective operating divisions. Regional and Corporate Management. We manage our homebuilding business through our regional offices. Some of our regional offices oversee operations in only one of our geographic markets, and others oversee operations in more than one geographic market. Generally, each regional office consists of a regional president, finance personnel, purchasing personnel and limited office support staff. Our regional presidents and their management teams are responsible for oversight of the operations of multiple homebuilding operating divisions. These responsibilities include: • Review and approval of division business plans and budgets; • Allocation of inventory investments within corporate guidelines; • Oversight of land and home inventory levels; and • Review of major personnel decisions. 3 Table of Contents Our corporate executives and corporate and national departments generally are responsible for establishing and monitoring compliance with our policies and procedures. Among other things, the corporate office also has primary responsibility for: • Asset management and capital allocation; • Financial reporting; • Legal; • Information technology; • Internal audit; • Marketing; • Merchandising; • Training and development; • Risk management; and • Treasury. Housing. We build homes in a number of standardized series, each designed to appeal to a different segment of the homebuyer market. Within each series, we build several models, each with a different floor plan, elevation and standard and optional features. Differences in sales prices of similar models in any series depend primarily upon demand, location, optional features and design specifications. The series of homes offered at a particular location are based on perceived customer preference, lot size, the area’s demographics and, in certain cases, the requirements of major land sellers and local municipalities. We maintain limited levels of inventories of unsold homes in our markets. Unsold homes in various stages of completion allow us to meet the immediate and near-term demands of prospective homebuyers. In order to mitigate the risk of carrying excess inventory, we have strict procedures and limits on the number of our unsold homes under construction. At December 31, 2005, we had 1,131 unsold homes under construction. Land Acquisition and Development. We generally purchase finished lots using option contracts, in phases or in bulk for cash. We also acquire entitled land for development into finished lots when we believe that the risk is justified. In making land purchases, we consider a number of factors, including projected rates of return, sales prices of the homes to be built, population and employment growth patterns, proximity to developed areas, estimated costs of development and demographic trends. Generally, we acquire finished lots and land for development only in areas that will have, among other things, available building permits, utilities and suitable zoning. We attempt to maintain a supply of finished lots sufficient to enable us to start homes promptly after a contract for a home sale is executed. This approach is intended to minimize our investment in inventories and reduce the risk of shortages of labor and building materials. Increases in the cost of finished lots may reduce Home Gross Margins (as defined below) in the future to the extent that market conditions would not allow us to recover the higher cost of land through higher sales prices. We define “Home Gross Margins” to mean home sales revenue less home cost of sales (which primarily includes land and construction costs, capitalized interest, closing costs and a reserve for warranty expense) as a percent of home sales revenue. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. We have the right to purchase a portion of the land we may acquire in the future utilizing option contracts, in some cases in phases for cash. Generally, in an option contract, we obtain the right to purchase lots in consideration for an option deposit. In the event we elect not to purchase the lots within a specified period of time, we forfeit the option deposit. Our option contracts generally do not contain provisions requiring our specific performance. At December 31, 2005, we had the right to acquire 18,819 lots under option agreements, with approximately $48.2 million and $23.1 million in non-refundable cash and letters of credit option deposits at risk, respectively, which had an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.2 billion. Because of increased demand for finished lots in certain of our markets, our ability to acquire lots using rolling options has been reduced or has become significantly more expensive. We own or have the right under option contracts to acquire undeveloped parcels of real estate that we intend to develop into finished lots. We develop our land in phases (generally fewer than 100 lots at a time for each home series in a subdivision) in order to limit our risk in a particular project and to efficiently employ available funds. Building permits and utilities are available and zoning is suitable for the current intended use of substantially all of our undeveloped land. When developed, these lots generally will be used in our homebuilding activities. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. 4 Table of Contents The table below shows the carrying value of land and land under development, by market, at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 (in thousands). December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Arizona $ 260,968 $ 168,489 $ 89,950 California 493,101 277,360 239,714 Colorado 153,844 139,554 105,223 Delaware Valley 46,561 28,916 — Florida 68,831 27,926 12,116 Illinois 33,421 33,656 — Maryland 89,245 69,523 53,483 Nevada 336,982 209,544 129,554 Texas 15,511 19,420 16,420 Utah 62,191 35,104 22,548 Virginia 95,543 100,461 94,561 Total $ 1,656,198 $ 1,109,953 $ 763,569 5 Table of Contents The table below shows the number of lots owned and controlled under option (excluding lots in housing completed or under construction), by market, at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 (dollars in thousands). December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Lots Owned Arizona 7,385 5,657 2,902 California 3,367 2,646 2,733 Colorado 3,639 3,993 3,392 Delaware Valley 471 312 — Florida 1,201 594 346 Illinois 430 508 — Maryland 679 650 532 Nevada 4,055 3,916 3,634 Texas 471 642 534 Utah 964 862 867 Virginia 783 980 1,411 Total 23,445 20,760 16,351 Lots Controlled Under Option Arizona 3,650 5,494 2,356 California 2,005 1,782 779 Colorado 2,198 1,866 1,814 Delaware Valley 1,283 723 — Florida 3,202 2,980 529 Illinois 186 203 — Maryland 1,173 1,206 1,235 Nevada 1,400 1,859 1,725 Texas 80 1,694 1,669 Utah 418 216 353 Virginia 3,224 3,141 1,791 Total 18,819 21,164 12,251 Total Lots Owned and Controlled 42,264 41,924 28,602 Non-refundable Option Deposits Cash $ 48,157 $ 41,804 $ 17,089 Letters of Credit 23,142 22,062 8,225 Total Non-refundable Option Deposits $ 71,299 $ 63,866 $ 25,314 At December 31, 2005, we owned a total of 23,445 lots, of which 10,619 lots were finished. In addition, 1,338 of these finished lots were subject to home sales contracts for which construction had not started. The remaining 12,826 lots were unfinished and in the process of being developed for future home sales. We believe we are well-positioned for future growth, consistent with our operating approach of seeking to maintain control of approximately a two-year supply of lots. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. Labor and Raw Materials. For the most part, materials used in our homebuilding operations are standard items carried by major suppliers. We generally contract for our materials and labor at a fixed price for the anticipated construction period of our homes. This allows us to mitigate the risks associated with increases in building materials and labor costs between the time construction begins on a home and the time it is closed. Increases in the cost of building materials, particularly lumber, and subcontracted labor may reduce Home Gross Margins to the extent that 6 Table of Contents market conditions prevent the recovery of increased costs through higher sales prices. From time to time and to varying degrees, we may experience shortages in the availability of building materials and/or labor in each of our markets. These shortages and delays may result in delays in the delivery of homes under construction, reduced Home Gross Margins, or both. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. Customer Service and Quality Control. Our operating divisions are responsible for pre-closing quality control inspections and responding to customers’ post-closing needs. Homebuyers are encouraged to become familiar with the details of their new home and to learn their care and maintenance responsibilities. They are afforded the opportunity to walk through their new home prior to closing to make sure it is ready for their occupancy. We believe that our pre-closing quality control inspections reduce post-closing repair costs and enhance our reputation for quality and service. Warranty. Our homes are sold with limited third-party warranties that generally provide for ten years of structural coverage (“structural warranty”), two years of coverage for plumbing, electrical and heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems, and one year of coverage for workmanship and materials. Under our agreement with the issuer of the third-party warranties, we are responsible for performing all of the work for the first two years of the warranty coverage, and substantially all of the work required to be performed during years three through ten of the warranties. As a consequence, warranty reserves are established as homes close on a house-by-house basis in an amount estimated to be adequate to cover expected costs of materials and outside labor during warranty periods. Reserves are determined based upon historical experience with respect to similar product types and geographical areas. Certain factors are given consideration in determining the per-house reserve amount, including: (1) the historical range of amounts paid per house; (2) the historical average amount paid per house; (3) any warranty expenditures included in (1) and (2) not considered to be normal and recurring; (4) improvements in quality control and construction techniques expected to impact future warranty expenditures; and (5) conditions that may affect certain projects and require higher per-house reserves for those specific projects. Seasonal Nature of Business. Our homebuilding business is seasonal in that some of our divisions, especially in the northernmost markets, are subject to weather-related slowdowns. Delays in development and construction activities resulting from adverse weather can increase our risk of buyer cancellations and contribute to higher costs for interest, materials and labor. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. Backlog. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, homes under contract but not yet delivered (“Backlog”) totaled 6,532 and 6,505, respectively, with an estimated sales value of $2.44 billion and $1.92 billion, respectively. Our home order cancellation rates were 23.7% and 25.3% for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We define home order “Cancellation Rate” as total cancelled home order contracts during a specified period of time as a percent of total home orders received during such time period. Assuming our historical Cancellation Rates are indicative of future Cancellation Rates, and assuming no significant long-standing change in market conditions and mortgage interest rates, we anticipate that approximately 70% to 80% of our December 31, 2005 Backlog will close under existing sales contracts during 2006. The remaining 20% to 30% of the homes in Backlog are not expected to close under existing contracts due to cancellations. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. 7 Table of Contents The table below discloses, by market, our Backlog for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 (dollars in thousands). December 31, 2005 Increase (Decrease) 2005 2004 Amount % Backlog ( Units ) Arizona 2,099 2,143 (44 ) -2 % California 765 807 (42 ) -5 % Colorado 577 692 (115 ) -17 % Delaware Valley 181 23 158 N/A Florida 599 638 (39 ) -6 % Illinois 80 18 62 N/A Maryland 251 225 26 12 % Nevada 1,023 746 277 37 % Texas 238 256 (18 ) –7 % Utah 338 289 49 17 % Virginia 381 668 (287 ) –43 % Total 6,532 6,505 27 0 % Estimated Backlog Sales Value $ 2,440,000 $ 1,920,000 $ 520,000 27 % Estimated Average Sales Price in Backlog $ 373.5 $ 295.2 $ 78.3 27 % Although units in Backlog remained relatively flat at the end of 2005, compared with 2004, the $78,300 increase in the average selling price for units in Backlog resulted in the estimated Backlog sales value increasing by 27% to $2.44 billion at December 31, 2005 from $1.92 billion at December 31, 2004. This increase, which was led by our Nevada, Arizona, Florida and Delaware Valley markets, was offset partially by lower Backlog sales value in Virginia and Colorado. Our 2005 year-end Backlog in Nevada increased 37% from December 31, 2004, primarily due to a 23% increase in average active subdivisions from 2004, as well as continued strong demand for new homes in this market. Combined Backlog in our newest markets of Delaware Valley and Illinois increased to 261 units at December 31, 2005, compared with 41 units at December 31, 2004, primarily due to an increase in the number of active subdivisions during 2005 resulting from our on-going efforts to grow in these markets. In Virginia, Backlog decreased, primarily due to an increase in our 2005 fourth quarter cancellations from the same period in 2004, as well as fewer home orders during 2005, compared with 2004, due to decrease in the average number of active subdivisions during 2005. Speculative buyers have recently begun exiting the new home market, resulting in what we believe to be a primary cause of this increase in cancellations, as well as a lower demand for new homes. As a result, the supply of homes available to be purchased by prospective buyers has increased in certain markets. Our Backlog in Colorado decreased as well, primarily due to fewer home orders in 2005 resulting from a more competitive environment for new homes in this market. Marketing and Sales. To communicate our brand as effectively as possible, we created an in-house advertising and marketing agency in March 2003, which helps us control quality and consistency in our execution. Our agency’s main objective is to direct qualified homebuyers to our sales offices, Home Galleries, Homebuyer Resource Centers and website. In addition, our in-house corporate communications team manages public relations and employee communication efforts and our interactive marketing team manages and maintains the MDC website and leads management activities. To complement our marketing efforts, the MDC brand also is reflected in our model homes and sales offices. Our in-house team of interior designers directs the merchandising plan for these homes, resulting in an exceptional overall presentation. Achieving brand consistency across all of these functions helps to enhance customer loyalty. We believe that all employees who serve our homebuyers should represent us professionally. Therefore, our on-site Sales Associates, Design Consultants and New Home Specialists undergo a region-specific 90-day training program in order to help meet customer needs. 8 Table of Contents Home Gallery and Design Center. Another important part of our marketing presentation takes place in our design centers, which are located in most of MDC’s homebuilding markets. Homebuyers are able to customize certain features of their homes by selecting from a variety of options and upgrades. In 2004, we launched our new Home Gallery concept in certain markets. These Home Galleries combine sales support and offer thousands of options for personalizing new homes. This retail location also serves as a resource to homebuyers who are interested in purchasing a new Richmond American home. Prospective homebuyers can receive individualized attention from a trained team of new home specialists, resulting in a more focused, efficient home search. Title Operations. American Home Title provides title agency services to our homebuyers in Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Illinois, Texas, Maryland, Virginia and West Virginia. Insurance Operations. Allegiant Insurance Company, Inc., A Risk Retention Group (“Allegiant”), was organized as a risk retention group under the Federal Liability Risk Retention Act of 1981. Allegiant is licensed as a Class 3 stock insurance company by the Division of Insurance of the State of Hawaii and began operations in June 2004. Allegiant provides general liability coverage for products and completed operations to the Company and to subcontractors of homebuilding subsidiaries of MDC. In consideration of an annual re-insurance premium and pursuant to an agreement effective June 30, 2004, StarAmerican Insurance Ltd., a Hawaii corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of MDC, agreed to re-insure all Allegiant claims in excess of $50,000 per occurrence. Competition. The homebuilding industry is fragmented and highly competitive. We compete with numerous homebuilders, including a number that are larger and have greater financial resources. Homebuilders compete for customers, desirable financing, land, building materials and subcontractor labor. Competition for home orders primarily is based upon price, style, financing provided to prospective purchasers, location of property, quality of homes built, customer service and general reputation in the community. We also compete with subdivision developers and land development companies when acquiring land. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. Mortgage Interest Rates. Our homebuilding operations are dependent upon the availability and cost of mortgage financing. Increases in home mortgage interest rates may reduce the demand for homes and home mortgages which could negatively impact our business. We are unable to predict future changes in home mortgage interest rates or the impact such changes may have on our operating activities and results of operations. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. Regulation. Our homebuilding operations are subject to continuing compliance requirements mandated by applicable federal, state and local statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations, including zoning and land use ordinances, building codes, contractors’ licensing laws, state insurance laws, federal and state human resources laws and regulations and health and safety regulations and laws (including, but not limited to, those of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration). Various localities in which we operate have imposed (or may impose in the future) fees on developers to fund schools, road improvements and low and moderate-income housing. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. From time to time, various municipalities in which we operate restrict or place moratoriums on the availability of utilities, including water and sewer taps. Additionally, certain jurisdictions in which we operate have proposed or enacted growth initiatives that may restrict the number of building permits available in any given year. Although no assurances can be given as to future conditions or governmental actions, we believe that in general we have, or can obtain, water and sewer taps and building permits for our land inventory and land held for development. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. Our homebuilding operations also are affected by environmental laws and regulations pertaining to availability of water, municipal sewage treatment capacity, land use, hazardous waste disposal, naturally occurring radioactive materials, building materials, population density and preservation of endangered species, natural terrain and vegetation. Due to these considerations, we generally obtain an environmental site assessment for parcels of land that we acquire. The particular environmental laws and regulations that apply to any given homebuilding project vary greatly according to the site’s location, the site’s environmental conditions and the present and former uses of the site. These environmental laws and regulations may result in project delays, causing us to incur substantial compliance and other costs, and/or prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in certain environmentally sensitive regions or areas. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. 9 Table of Contents Bonds and Letters of Credit. In many cases, we are required to obtain bonds and letters of credit in support of our related obligations with respect to subdivision improvements, homeowners association dues and start-up expenses, warranty work, contractors’ license fees, earnest money deposits, etc. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, we had outstanding performance bonds totaling $392.4 million and $306.8 million, respectively, and letters of credit totaling $96.0 million and $94.7 million, respectively, including $24.6 million and $25.6 million, respectively, issued by HomeAmerican. In certain states, unless we take measures to release any state regulatory imposed restrictions on earnest money deposits (“Deposits”) received from a homebuyer in conjunction with a home sale, which may include posting blanket security bonds, we are restricted from using these Deposits for general purposes. Accordingly, at December 31, 2005 and 2004, we had $12.5 million outstanding in blanket security bonds to release restrictions on certain Deposits. Additionally, we had $6.7 million and $7.2 million in restricted cash related to Deposits at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We monitor, on a regular basis, the amount of Deposits we hold in certain states to confirm that our blanket security bonds exceed the amount of the earnest money deposits. In the event any such bonds or letters of credit issued by third parties are called, we would be obligated to reimburse the issuer of the bond or letter of credit. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. Financial Services Segment. Mortgage Lending Operations. General. HomeAmerican is a full-service mortgage lender and is the principal originator of mortgage loans for our homebuyers. Through office locations in each of our markets and a centralized loan origination center, HomeAmerican originates mortgage loans primarily for our homebuyers. HomeAmerican also brokers mortgage loans for origination by outside lending institutions for our homebuyers. HomeAmerican is authorized to originate Federal Housing Administration-insured (“FHA”), Veterans Administration-guaranteed (“VA”), Federal National Mortgage Association (“FNMA”), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“FHLMC”) and other private investor mortgage loans. HomeAmerican also is an authorized loan servicer for FNMA, FHLMC and the Government National Mortgage Association (“GNMA”) and, as such, is subject to the rules and regulations of these organizations. Substantially all of the mortgage loans originated by HomeAmerican are sold to third party purchasers within 45 days of origination. We use HomeAmerican’s secured warehouse line of credit, other borrowings and Company generated funds to finance these mortgage loans until they are sold. During the 2005 fourth quarter, we initiated an early purchase program, whereby we sell certain mortgage loans originated by HomeAmerican to a third party purchaser shortly after the close of a home. This program improves our overall available funds by enabling us to sell mortgage loans originated by HomeAmerican more quickly. Accordingly, for mortgage loans sold pursuant to this program, the number of days a loan is held in inventory has been reduced from the historical 45 days to less than five days. Historically, a substantial portion of our originated loans have been sold to one third party purchaser. It is likely that we will continue to depend on its ability and willingness to purchase a significant number of our loans originated. During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, we sold approximately 68%, 37% and 16%, respectively, of our mortgage loans originated to this third party purchaser. Portfolio of Mortgage Loan Servicing. Mortgage loan servicing involves the collection of principal, interest, taxes and insurance premiums from the borrower and the remittance of such funds to the mortgage loan investor, local taxing authorities and insurance companies. The servicer is paid a fee to perform these services. HomeAmerican obtains the servicing rights related to the mortgage loans it originates. Certain mortgage loans are sold “servicing released” (the servicing rights are included with the sale of the corresponding mortgage loans). In 2005, 83% of the mortgage loans were sold “servicing released.” The servicing rights on the remainder of the mortgage loans generally are sold within two months of the sale of the mortgage loan. HomeAmerican intends to continue selling servicing rights on all mortgage loans originated in the future. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. 10 Table of Contents HomeAmerican’s portfolio of mortgage loan servicing at December 31, 2005 consisted of servicing rights with respect to 2,075 single-family loans, 99% of which were less than six months old. This includes 817 single-family loans for which the servicing rights had been sold but not transferred to the purchasers at December 31, 2005. HomeAmerican anticipates transferring these servicing rights in the first half of 2006. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. These loans are secured by mortgages on properties in eleven states, with interest rates on the loans ranging from approximately 5.75% to 9.13% and averaging 6.46%. The underlying value of a servicing portfolio generally is determined based on the interest rates and the annual servicing fee rates, gross of guarantee fees, currently .44% for FHA/VA loans and .25% for conventional loans applicable to the loans comprising the portfolio. Pipeline. HomeAmerican’s mortgage loans in process that had not closed (the “Pipeline”) at December 31, 2005 had an aggregate principal balance of $1.6 billion. An estimated 70% to 80% of the Pipeline at December 31, 2005 is anticipated to close during 2006 under current homes sales contracts. If mortgage interest rates decline, a smaller percentage of these loans would be expected to close. Additionally, we had $245.7 million in mortgage loans committed for sale under forward sales contracts, of which $110.8 million were locked with an average interest rate of 6.64%. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. Forward Sales Commitments. HomeAmerican is exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates on its mortgage loan inventory. Derivative instruments utilized in the normal course of business by HomeAmerican include forward sales securities commitments, private investor sales commitments and commitments to originate mortgage loans. HomeAmerican utilizes the sales commitments to manage the price risk on fluctuations in interest rates on our mortgage loans owned and commitments to originate mortgage loans. Such contracts are the only significant financial derivative instruments utilized by us and are generally settled within 45 days of origination. Certain mortgage loans originated by HomeAmerican are able to be sold pursuant to the aforementioned early purchase program and generally are settled within five days of origination. Due to this hedging philosophy, the market risk associated with HomeAmerican’s mortgages is limited. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. Competition. The mortgage industry is fragmented and highly competitive. In each of the locations in which it originates loans, HomeAmerican competes with numerous banks, thrifts and other mortgage bankers, many of which are larger and have greater financial resources. Competitive factors include pricing, loan terms, underwriting criteria and customer service. Employees. At December 31, 2005, we employed approximately 4,000 employees. We consider our employee relations to be satisfactory. Item 1A. Risk Factors Relating to our Business An adverse change in economic conditions could reduce the demand for homes and, as a result, could reduce our earnings. Changes in national and regional economic conditions, as well as local economic conditions where our subsidiaries conduct operations and where prospective purchasers of our homebuilding subsidiaries’ homes live, can have a negative impact on our business. Adverse changes in employment levels, job growth, consumer confidence, housing demand, interest rates and population growth may reduce demand and depress prices for our homebuilding subsidiaries’ homes. This, in turn, can reduce our earnings. A material decline in the value of new residential housing could also result in a decreased value for the land, housing inventory and housing work-in-progress that we own. Any pronounced down cycle in the homebuilding industry, particularly in Nevada, California and Arizona, could cause demand for our homes and land that we own to weaken significantly. If land is not available at reasonable prices, our sales and earnings could decrease. Our operations depend on our homebuilding subsidiaries’ ability to continue to obtain land for the development of our residential communities at reasonable prices. Changes in the general availability of land, competition for available land, availability of financing to acquire land, zoning, regulations that limit housing density and other market conditions may hurt our ability to obtain land for new residential communities. If the supply of land appropriate for development of our residential communities becomes more limited because of these factors, or for any 11 Table of Contents other reason, the cost of land could increase and/or the number of homes that our homebuilding subsidiaries build and sell could be reduced. If our home prices continue to increase, our homes could become less affordable to the first-time and first-time move-up homebuyer. Home price increases may be caused by market conditions including inflation and increases in the cost of land, construction materials and labor. If our home prices become substantially less affordable to our first-time and first-time move-up homebuyers, we may experience a significant decline in home orders and/or an increase in our Cancellation Rate. In such circumstances, our home sales revenue and operating profits could be negatively impacted. If the market value of our homes drops significantly, our profits could decrease. The market value of our land and housing inventories depends on market conditions. Our homebuilding subsidiaries acquire land for expansion into new markets and for replacement of land inventory and expansion within our current markets. If housing demand decreases below what we anticipated when we acquired our inventory, we may not be able to make profits similar to what we have made in the past, may experience less than anticipated profits and/or may not be able to recover our costs when our homebuilding subsidiaries build and sell homes. In the face of adverse market conditions, we may have substantial inventory carrying costs or our homebuilding subsidiaries may have to sell land or homes at a loss. Interest rate increases or changes in federal lending programs could lower demand for our homes and our mortgage lending services. Our homebuilding and mortgage lending operations are impacted by the availability and cost of mortgage financing. Nearly all of our customers finance the purchase of their homes, and a significant number of these customers arrange their financing through our mortgage lending subsidiary, HomeAmerican. Increases in home mortgage interest rates may reduce the demand for homes and home mortgages. We are unable to predict the extent to which recent or future changes in home mortgage interest rates will affect our operating activities and results of operations. In addition, we believe that the availability of FNMA, FHLMC, FHA and VA mortgage financing is an important factor in our marketing strategy. Any changes, limitations or restrictions on the availability of these types of financing could reduce our subsidiaries’ home sales and mortgage lending volume. Competition in the homebuilding industry could hurt our profits. The real estate industry is fragmented and highly competitive. Our homebuilding subsidiaries compete with numerous homebuilders, including a number that are substantially larger and have greater financial resources. Our homebuilding subsidiaries also compete with subdivision developers and land development companies, some of which are themselves homebuilders or affiliates of homebuilders. Homebuilders compete for customers, desirable financing, land, building materials and subcontractor labor. Competition for home orders primarily is based upon price, style, financing provided to prospective purchasers, location of property, quality of homes built, customer service and general reputation in the community. We, through our mortgage lending subsidiary, HomeAmerican, also compete with numerous banks, thrifts and other mortgage bankers, many of which are larger and have greater resources than we do. Increased competition could affect our ability to raise home prices and maintain lower levels of incentives, which could negatively impact our home sales revenue and operating profits. Natural disasters could cause an increase in home construction costs, as well as delays, and could result in reduced profits. The climates and geology of many of the states in which we operate, including California and Florida, present increased risks of natural disasters. To the extent that hurricanes, severe storms, earthquakes, droughts, floods, heavy or prolonged precipitation, wildfires or other natural disasters or similar events occur, the homebuilding industry in general, and the operating profits of our business in particular, in such states may be negatively impacted. These, among other natural disasters, can affect an area in which we build, or one nearby, whereby there can be a diversion of 12 Table of Contents labor and materials in the area from new home construction to the rebuilding of the existing homes damaged or destroyed in the natural disaster. This can cause delays in construction and delivery of new homes and/or increase our construction costs. Our business is subject to numerous environmental and other governmental regulations. These regulations could give rise to significant additional liabilities or expenditures, or restrictions on our business. Our operations are subject to continuing compliance requirements mandated by applicable federal, state and local statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations, including zoning and land use ordinances, building, plumbing and electrical codes, contractors’ licensing laws, state insurance laws, federal and state human resources laws and regulations and health and safety regulations and laws (including, but not limited to, those of the Occupational Safety & Health Administration). Various localities in which we operate have imposed (or may impose in the future) fees on developers to fund schools, road improvements and low and moderate income housing. From time to time, various municipalities in which our homebuilding subsidiaries operate restrict or place moratoriums on the availability of utilities, including water and sewer taps. Additionally, certain jurisdictions in which our homebuilding subsidiaries operate have proposed or enacted “slow growth” or “no growth” initiatives and other ballot measures that may restrict the number of building permits available in any given year. These initiatives or other slow or no growth measures could reduce our ability to open new home communities and build and sell homes in the affected markets and may create additional costs and administration requirements, which in turn could negatively impact our future home sales and operating profits. Although future conditions or governmental actions may impact our ability to obtain necessary permits or water and sewer taps, we currently believe that we have, or can obtain, water and sewer taps and building permits for our homebuilding subsidiaries’ land inventory and land held for development. Our homebuilding operations also are affected by environmental laws and regulations pertaining to availability of water, municipal sewage treatment capacity, stormwater discharges, land use, hazardous waste disposal, naturally occurring radioactive materials, building materials, population density and preservation of endangered species, natural terrain and vegetation. Due to these considerations, our homebuilding subsidiaries generally obtain an environmental site assessment for parcels of land that they acquire. The particular environmental laws and regulations that apply to any given homebuilding project vary greatly according to a particular site’s location, the site’s environmental conditions and the present and former uses. These environmental laws may result in project delays, cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs and/or prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in certain environmentally sensitive regions or areas. Product liability litigation and warranty claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly. As a homebuilder, we are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims, including moisture intrusion and related mold claims, arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common to the homebuilding industry and can be costly. In addition, the costs of insuring against construction defect and product liability claims are high and the amount of coverage offered by insurance companies is currently limited. This coverage may be further restricted and become more costly. If we are not able to obtain adequate insurance against these claims, we may experience losses that could hurt our business. The interests of certain control persons may be adverse to investors. Larry A. Mizel, David D. Mandarich and other of our affiliates own, directly or indirectly, in the aggregate, almost 25% of our outstanding common stock. To the extent they and their affiliates vote their shares in the same manner, their combined stock ownership may effectively give them the power to elect our entire board of directors and control our management, operations and affairs. Circumstances may occur in which the interest of the controlling shareholders could be in conflict with your interests. The large percentage of stock held by these persons could also delay or prevent a change of control. 13 Table of Contents We depend on certain markets, and reduced demand for homes in these markets could reduce home sales revenue and earnings. Although we have increased our geographic diversification in recent years, we still conduct a significant portion of our business in the California, Nevada and Arizona markets and generate a disproportionate amount of our revenues and profits in these states. Demand for new homes, and in some instances home prices, have declined from time to time in some of our markets. If we experience a slowdown in our operations within one or more of these markets, our earnings and financial position would likely be negatively impacted. Labor and material shortages could cause delays in the construction of our homes. The residential construction industry experiences serious labor and material shortages from time to time, including: work stoppages; labor disputes and shortages in qualified trades people, insulation, drywall, concrete (as recently experienced in several of our markets), steel and lumber; lack of availability of adequate utility infrastructure and services; our need to rely on local subcontractors who may not be adequately capitalized or insured; and shortages, or delays in availability, or fluctuations in prices, of building materials. These labor and material shortages can be more severe during periods of strong demand for housing or during periods where the markets in which we operate experience natural disasters that have a significant impact on existing residential and commercial structures. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays in the start or completion, or increase the cost, of developing one or more of our residential communities. Increases in the costs of subcontracted labor, finished lots, building materials, and other resources, to the extent that market conditions prevent the recovery of increased costs through higher selling prices, could negatively affect our operating results. Because of the seasonal nature of our business, our quarterly operating results fluctuate. We experience seasonal variations in our quarterly operating results and capital requirements. Typically, we do not commence significant construction on a home before a sales contract has been signed with a homebuyer. A significant percentage of our sales contracts are made during our first and second fiscal quarters. Accordingly, we generally have more homes under construction, close more homes and have greater revenues and operating income in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. Additionally, our financial position at the end of the third and fourth fiscal quarters is not necessarily representative of our financial position at the end of the first and second fiscal quarters. We are reliant on a small number of third party purchasers of mortgage loans originated by HomeAmerican which could impact our results of operations. Historically, a substantial portion of our originated loans have been sold to one third party purchaser. It is likely that we will continue to depend on its ability and willingness to purchase a significant number of our loans originated. Should this purchaser discontinue or reduce the number of loans it is willing to purchase from us, our ability to timely sell HomeAmerican originated loans could be significantly impacted, which could result in lower revenue and earnings in a given reporting period for our financial services and homebuilding segments. If our potential homebuyers are not able to obtain suitable financing, our business may decline. Our business and earnings depend on interest rates and the ability of our homebuyers to obtain affordable mortgages for the purchase of our homes. Increases in the cost of mortgage financing could prevent homebuyers from purchasing our homes. In addition, if our homebuyers must sell an existing home in order to buy a home from us, increases in mortgage costs could interfere with such a sale and result in our homebuyers’ inability to buy a home from us. Additionally, the increased use of adjustable-rate mortgage products, including interest-only mortgages, could affect the ability of existing homeowners to obtain suitable financing for their homes at the end of their adjustable-rate term. This potentially could lead to an increase in home foreclosures, thereby creating additional competition from higher unsold home inventory levels. These risks could negatively impact our home sales revenue and earnings. 14 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 