Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results” discussions below, which could cause future results to differ materially from historical results or from the results anticipated. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates or as of the date hereof if no other date is identified. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. ITEM 1. BUSINESS We are the holding company for IndyMac Bank, F.S.B., a $20 billion hybrid thrift/mortgage bank, headquartered in Pasadena, California (“Indymac Bank” or “Bank”). Indymac Bank originates mortgages in all 50 states of the U.S. and is the largest savings and loan headquartered in Los Angeles County, California, the 9th largest nationwide, based on assets according to American Banker, the 9th largest residential originator according to the National Mortgage News based on third quarter 2005 mortgage origination volume, and the 16th largest mortgage servicer according to National Mortgage News. Indymac Bank, operating as a hybrid thrift/mortgage banker, provides cost-efficient financing for the acquisition, development, and improvement of single-family homes. Indymac also provides financing secured by single-family homes and other banking products to facilitate consumers’ personal financial goals. We facilitate the acquisition, development, and improvement of single-family homes through our award-winning e-MITS® (Electronic Mortgage Information and Transaction System) platform that automates underwriting, risk-based pricing and rate locking on a nationwide basis via the Internet at the point of sale. Indymac Bank offers highly competitive mortgage products and services that are tailored to meet the needs of both consumers and mortgage professionals. Indymac (then known as Countrywide Mortgage Investments, Inc.) was founded as a passive mortgage real estate investment trust (“REIT”) in 1985 and transitioned its business model to become an active, operating mortgage lender in 1993. In response to the global liquidity crisis in the fourth quarter of 1998 in which many non-regulated financial institutions, mortgage lenders and mortgage REITs were adversely impacted or did not survive, we determined that it would be advantageous to become a depository institution. The depository structure provides significant advantages in the form of diversified financing sources, the retention of capital to support growth, and a strong platform for the origination of mortgages. Accordingly, effective January 1, 2000, we terminated our status as a REIT and converted to a fully taxable entity, and, on July 1, 2000, we acquired SGV Bancorp, Inc. (“SGVB”), which then was the parent of First Federal Savings and Loan Association of San Gabriel Valley, a federal savings association. We contributed substantially all of our assets and operations to the subsidiary savings association, which we renamed Indymac Bank. We entered the reverse mortgage industry through the acquisition of 93.75% of the outstanding shares of common stock of Financial Freedom Holdings, Inc. (“FFHI”), the leading provider of reverse mortgages in the United States of America, and the related assets from Lehman Brothers Bank, F.S.B. and its affiliates on July 16, 2004. The remaining shares of the common stock of FFHI, constituting 6.25% of the outstanding shares of common stock, were held by its chief executive officer after the acquisition. The acquisition was consummated as part of our strategy to increase market share by offering niche mortgage products and servicing a broad customer base. In November 2004, as part of an internal reorganization, FFHI merged into its then wholly owned subsidiary Financial Freedom Senior Funding Corporation (collectively with FFHI, “Financial Freedom”). As a result of the merger, the Company owns 93.75%, and Financial Freedom’s 4 chief executive officer owns 6.25%, of the outstanding shares of common stock of Financial Freedom. Financial Freedom currently operates as a subsidiary of Indymac Bank. References to “Indymac Bancorp” or the “Parent Company” refer to the parent company alone, while references to “Indymac,” or the “Company” refer to the parent company and its consolidated subsidiaries. BUSINESS MODEL Indymac’s hybrid thrift/mortgage banking business model is the basis for our corporate structure. Our model provides a strong framework for growth over the long-term and the flexibility to operate efficiently in varying interest-rate environments. Our businesses are aligned into two primary operating segments, the mortgage banking and the thrift segments. Mortgage banking involves the originating and trading of mortgage loans and related assets, and the servicing of these loans. The revenues from mortgage banking consist primarily of gains on sale of the loans; interest income earned while the loans are held for sale; and the servicing fees. The thrift side of our business invests in single-family residential mortgage assets (including mortgage-backed securities) which we hold on our balance sheet. Revenues consist primarily of spread income, which represents the difference between the interest earned on the loans and the cost of funds. As a result of the quick asset turn times associated with mortgage banking, it is less capital-intensive than thrift investing and offers higher returns on invested capital. However, mortgage banking is cyclical: origination volumes are closely correlated to interest rates, rising when rates fall and falling when rates rise. Thrift investing requires more capital than mortgage banking, resulting in lower returns on invested capital. However, the returns tend to be more stable and less cyclical than those from mortgage banking, and they generally improve as returns on mortgage banking decline. As interest rates rise, there is little incentive for borrowers to refinance, so portfolio runoff (i.e., reduction) is minimal. Our hybrid business model allows us to take advantage of both the higher returns on invested equity offered by mortgage banking, and the earnings stability offered by a traditional savings and loan institution. The common denominator of the Company’s business is providing consumers with single-family residential mortgages through relationships with each segment’s core customers via the channels in which we operate. Prudent allocation of capital between our mortgage banking and thrift segments, depending on the interest rate environment, serves to stabilize earnings through the mortgage cycles. In a falling interest rate environment when originations are rising, more capital can be deployed in mortgage banking. In an environment of rising rates and/or declining mortgage origination volumes, more capital can be deployed in our thrift investing operations. With our hybrid model, we can take advantage of opportunities to fund and sell loans, but we also prudently build a portfolio of high-quality investment loans and mortgage-backed securities, as well as a substantial servicing portfolio to provide consistent income throughout the interest rate cycle. By deploying capital in the area that offers the best returns, we are able to stabilize earnings through a variety of economic and interest rate cycles. The mortgage market is a huge industry with over $2 trillion in mortgage originations for the past several years and over $8 trillion mortgage debt outstanding as of September 30, 2005. The mortgages outstanding grew an average of approximately 8 percent annually over the last several decades. Indymac’s long-term strategy focuses on gaining a larger share of the mortgage origination market without compromising profitability goals. During 2005, we successfully executed our strategy and reached a record level of mortgage production of $60.8 billion and increased our market share by 60% to 2.19% while the market volume remained flat. According to the National Mortgage News, by the third quarter of 2005, we were one of the top nine originators of mortgage loans in the United States of America. We will continue to leverage our mortgage-banking infrastructure, increase our marketing and sales efforts, and expand our geographic presence in an effort to gain additional market share in the future. To complement our mortgage banking activities, we will continue to add high quality single-family residential and home equity loans or securities backed by these loans to the investment portfolio to help mitigate fluctuations in earnings during the mortgage origination cycle. 5 The environment of historically low interest rates over the past several years has been very favorable for mortgage lenders who effectively hedged their mortgage servicing rights. Consumers continued to refinance existing loans and historically low mortgage rates opened the door for home ownership to many first time buyers. The Mortgage Bankers Association forecasts a modest increase in interest rates in 2006 with total origination volume decreasing 19% to $2.2 trillion, while purchase mortgage originations are expected to remain close to the 2005 level. We currently expect 2006 EPS to range from $4.50 to $5.20 per share, which includes the implementation of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123R (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, requiring the expensing of stock options. We estimate that the implementation of SFAS No. 123R will reduce EPS by approximately $0.10 in 2006. Had SFAS No. 123R been effective in 2005, reported EPS of $4.54 would have been reduced by $0.11 to $4.43. The underlying assumptions embedded in our EPS outlook for 2006 include the MBA’s forecast of $2.2 trillion for industry-wide mortgage volumes, mortgage banking revenue margins of 115 to 125 basis points, average earning assets of approximately $25 billion, an average 10 year Treasury rate of approximately 4.8 percent, and an average 1-month LIBOR of approximately 4.6 percent. This EPS forecast is considered our best estimation in light of current market expectations for interest rates and industry volumes in 2006. However, the economy, interest rates and our industry remain volatile and as a result, our actual results could vary significantly from this forecast. MORTGAGE BANKING The mortgage banking segment’s core activities are loan production, loan sales, and the performance of our servicing functions. Loan production is achieved by delivering a suite of mortgage products, predominantly prime credit quality, to our customers using a technology-based approach across multiple channels on a nationwide basis supported by 13 strategically distributed regional mortgage centers. Our broad product line includes adjustable-rate mortgages (“ARMs”), hybrid ARMs, option ARMs offering borrowers multiple payment options, fixed-rate mortgages, both conforming and non-conforming, construction-to-permanent loans, subprime mortgages and reverse mortgages. We apply the following underwriting guidelines to option ARM loans underwritten by us: borrowers must have minimum credit scores of 620; qualification is based on the fully indexed principal and interest payment at origination; mortgage insurance is required on all option ARM loans over 80% loan-to-value (“LTV”); and the negative amortization is capped at 110% of the original principal balance. Our largest production channel, mortgage professionals, originates or purchases mortgage loans through its relationships with mortgage brokers, mortgage bankers, and financial institutions. We also offer mortgages and reverse mortgages to consumers through channels such as direct mail, Internet leads, online advertising, affinity relationships, real estate professionals, including Realtors, and through our Southern California retail banking branches. When we have accumulated a sufficient volume of loans with similar characteristics, generally $50 million to $1 billion in principal amount, we sell the loans in the secondary market. The length of time between when we originate or purchase a mortgage loan and when we sell or securitize the mortgage loan generally ranges from 10 to 90 days, depending on factors such as loan volume by product type and market fluctuations in the prices of MBS. On average during 2005, we sold loans within 52 days of purchase or origination. We sell the majority of the mortgage loans that we originate or purchase (86% in 2005). The loans are usually sold on a non-recourse basis, but we do make certain representations and warranties concerning the loans. We generally retain the servicing rights with respect to loans sold to the government sponsored enterprises, or GSEs (primarily Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac). The credit losses on these loans are absorbed by the GSEs. We pay guarantee fees to the GSEs to compensate them for their assumption of credit risk. We also sell loans through private-label securitizations. Loans sold through private-label securitizations consist primarily of non-conforming loans and subprime loans. The securitization process involves the sale of 6 the loans to one of our wholly owned bankruptcy remote special purpose entities which then sells the loans to a separate, transaction-specific securitization trust in exchange for cash and certain trust interests that we retain. The securitization trust issues and sells undivided interests to third party investors that entitle the investors to specified cash flows generated from the securitized loans. These undivided interests are usually represented by certificates with varying interest rates and are secured by the payments on the loans acquired by the trust, and commonly include senior and subordinated classes. The senior class securities are usually rated “AAA” by at least two of the major independent rating agencies and have priority over the subordinated classes in the receipt of payments. We have no obligation to provide funding support (other than temporary servicing advances) to either the third party investors or securitization trusts. Neither the third party investors nor the securitization trusts have recourse to our assets or us and neither have the ability to require us to repurchase their securities. We do make certain representations and warranties concerning the loans, such as lien status or mortgage insurance coverage, and if we are found to have breached a representation or warranty we could be required to repurchase the loan from the securitization trust. We do not guarantee any securities issued by the securitization trusts. The securitization trusts represent “qualified special purpose entities” which meet the legal isolation criteria of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 140, “Accounting for Transfer and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities” (“SFAS 140”), and are therefore not consolidated for financial reporting purposes. To a lesser extent, we also sell loans on a whole-loan basis to institutional investors with servicing on such loans either retained by us or released to the institutional investors. In addition to the cash we receive from the sale of MBS, we typically retain certain interests in the securitization trust as payment for the loans. These retained interests may include mortgage servicing rights (“MSRs”), AAA-rated interest-only securities, AAA-rated senior securities, AAA-rated principal-only securities, subordinated classes of securities, residual securities, securities associated with prepayment charges on the underlying mortgage loans, cash reserve funds, or an overcollateralization account. Other than AAA-rated interest-only securities, the AAA-rated senior securities, the securities associated with prepayment charges on the underlying mortgage loans, and the MSRs, these retained interests are subordinated and serve as credit enhancement for the more senior securities issued by the securitization trust. We are entitled to receive payment on most of these retained interests only after the third party investors are repaid their investment plus interest and there is excess cash in the securitization trust. Our ability to obtain repayment of our residual interests depends solely on the performance of the underlying mortgage loans. Material adverse changes in performance of the loans, including actual credit losses and prepayment speeds which differ from our assumptions, may have a significant adverse effect on the value of these retained interests. We usually retain the servicing rights for the securitized mortgage loans, as discussed in the description of servicing operations below under the caption “Loan Servicing Operations.” As a servicer, we are entitled to receive a servicing fee equal to a specified percentage of the outstanding principal balance of each loan. This servicing fee is calculated and payable on a monthly basis. We may also be entitled to receive additional servicing compensation, such as late payment fees or prepayment charges. Our servicing fees have priority in payment over each class of securities issued by the securitization trusts. In addition to securitization trusts, from time to time we use Net Interest Margin (“NIM”) trusts to securitize our interest in residual securities and securities associated with prepayment charges on the underlying mortgage loans from prior or recently completed securitization transactions. NIM trusts issue notes to outside investors secured by the residual securities and securities associated with prepayment charges on the underlying mortgage loans we contribute to the trusts. The cash proceeds from the sale of the NIM notes to investors are paid to us as payment for the securities. The NIM notes are obligations of the NIM trusts and are collateralized only by the residual securities and securities associated with prepayment charges on the underlying mortgage loans. We are not obligated to make any payments on the NIM notes. These entities represent qualified special purpose entities and are therefore not consolidated for financial reporting purposes in accordance with SFAS 140. At inception, the outside investors have the majority interest in the fair value of the residual securities and securities associated with prepayment charges on the underlying mortgage loans. We receive cash flows from our retained interests in the NIM trusts once the NIM notes issued to the 7 investors are fully paid off. At December 31, 2005, these NIM trusts held assets valued at $187.9 million and our retained interests in these NIM trusts are valued at $52.4 million. Our retained interests in the NIM trusts are included as a component of securities classified as trading securities on our consolidated balance sheets. Our mortgage banking revenue consists primarily of gain on the sale of loans, net interest income, and fee income associated with the loans held for sale. The mortgage banking segment also generates service fee income from MSRs and interest income from other servicing-related assets. Because many of our mortgage banking activities are tied to the purchase and sale of single-family residences, our business is subject to some seasonal volatility. Production Divisions Mortgage Professionals Our largest production channel, mortgage professionals, was responsible for 83% of our total mortgage production during 2005. This group is responsible for the production of mortgage loans through relationships with mortgage brokers, mortgage bankers, financial institutions, capital market participants across the country, and homebuilders via three channels: wholesale, correspondent, and conduit. Mortgage loans could be either funded by us (wholesale) or obtained as closed loans on a flow basis (correspondent) or in bulk purchases (conduit). When originating or purchasing mortgage loans, we generally acquire the rights to “service” the mortgage loans (as described below). When we sell the loans, we may either retain the related servicing rights and service the loans through our Home Loan Servicing division or sell those rights. See “Loan Servicing” below. This division targets customers based on their loan production volume, product mix and projected revenue to us. The sales force is responsible for maintaining and increasing loan production from these customers by marketing our strengths, which include a “one stop shop” for all products, competitive pricing and response time efficiencies in the loan purchase process through our e-MITS underwriting process and high customer service standards. During 2005, to continue our emphasis on increasing production capacity and geographic penetration to build market share, the division opened four new regional centers. With these four new centers, the division currently has 13 regional centers. Looking ahead, we plan to add a minimum of seven new regional offices over the next five years as a way of increasing geographic penetration to gain market share in target markets, improving customer service, and improving operational efficiencies. Consumer Direct This channel markets mortgage products nationwide directly to consumers through our Southern California retail banking branches, direct mail, Internet lead aggregators, outbound telesales, online advertising, and referral programs. Our website offers a wide range of home loan products directly to consumers nationwide. This site enables consumers to utilize e-MITS to apply for a mortgage loan, obtain loan approvals, lock in an interest rate and receive a printable approval letter, all online, and all within minutes. The website also features online loan status information, daily rate comparisons to major competitors, and a quick mortgage rate pricing tool. Through the call center operations and our Southern California retail banking branch network, loan consultants counsel consumers on the loan application process and make lending decisions using our e-MITS technology. Loans are processed and funded by our operations group within our regional call centers. Financial Freedom Through the acquisition of Financial Freedom, we have become the leading provider of reverse mortgages in the United States. This group is responsible for the generation and servicing of predominantly reverse mortgage products with senior customers (age 62 or older) via the affinity business unit to institutional 8 relationships, traditional wholesale mortgage relationship sales force and a retail loan officer sales force. Reverse mortgages allow homeowners age 62 and older to convert home equity into cash to supplement their retirement income. The equity may be withdrawn in a lump sum, as annuity-style monthly payments, as a credit line, or any combination thereof. Reverse mortgages offered by us feature: no recourse to the borrower, no repayment during the borrower’s occupancy of the home, and a repayment amount that cannot exceed the value of the home (after costs of sale). With the increased familiarity that senior homeowners and their financial advisors have with this product, and the appreciation of home prices, the reverse mortgage market is expected to grow dramatically. Comparing 2005 to 2004, our reverse mortgage volume increased 229% to $2.9 billion in 2005 from $893 million for the period from July 16, 2004 to December 31, 2004, reflecting an annualized increase of 51%. We acquired Financial Freedom on July 16, 2004, and the period from July 16, 2004 to December 31, 2004 was the period during which we owned Financial Freedom in 2004. Loan Servicing Retained Asset and Servicing Division This division manages the assets the Company retains in conjunction with its mortgage loan sales. The assets held include the following asset classes: (i) mortgage servicing rights (“MSRs”), interest-only strips, prepayment penalty securities and residual securities; (ii) derivatives and securities held as hedges of such assets, including swaps, options, futures, principal-only securities, agency debentures and U.S. Treasury bonds; (iii) loans acquired through clean-up calls or originated through the Company’s customer retention programs; and (iv) investment and non-investment grade securities. The Company hedges the MSRs to protect the economic value of the MSRs. The economic value may vary from the value recorded under the generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) which is at the lower of cost or market. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has issued an exposure draft providing an option to account for mortgage servicing rights at fair value. Such option is expected to be available during the first half of 2006, and we intend to make the election for fair value accounting for MSRs as soon as it becomes available. At December 31, 2005, primarily through our Home Loan Servicing operation in Kalamazoo, Michigan, we serviced $90.7 billion of mortgage loans, of which $84.5 billion was serviced for others, an increase of 68% from $50.2 billion serviced for others in 2004. The growth in our portfolio of loans serviced for others was attributable to our record production and sale volumes in 2005. The servicing portfolio includes servicing for prime and subprime loans, HELOCs, reverse mortgages, manufactured housing loans and home improvement loans. Servicing of mortgage loans includes: collecting loan payments; responding to customers’ inquiries; accounting for principal and interest; holding custodial (impound) funds for payment of property taxes and insurance; counseling delinquent mortgagors; modifying and refinancing loans; supervising foreclosures and liquidation of foreclosed property; performing required tax reporting; and performing other loan administration functions necessary to protect investors’ interests and comply with applicable laws and regulations. Servicing operations also include remitting loan payments, less servicing fees, to trustees and, in some cases, advancing delinquent borrower payments to investors, subject to a right of reimbursement. THRIFT The strategy of our thrift segment is to leverage and scale infrastructure with prudent mortgage related asset growth to stabilize and diversify company-wide earnings, targeting a return on equity ranging from 15% to 25%. Through leveraging our capital and our FDIC-insured financial institution, the thrift segment principally invests in single-family residential (“SFR”) mortgage loans (predominantly prime ARMs, including hybrid ARMs), construction financing for single-family residences or lots provided directly to individual consumers, builder construction financing facilities for larger residential subdivision loans, home equity lines of credit (“HELOCs”), and mortgage-backed securities. Additionally, beginning in 2005, we reentered the warehouse lending business, which provides short-term revolving warehouse lending facilities to small-to-medium size mortgage bankers and brokers to finance mortgage loans from the closing of the loans 9 until they are sold. The thrift also occasionally engages in loan sales with servicing retained, principally of HELOCs and lot loans, as part of our balance sheet management efforts and our efforts to optimize returns on equity. Portfolio Divisions Mortgage Backed Securities (“MBS”) MBS includes predominantly AAA-rated agency and private label MBS. Prime SFR Mortgage Loans Single-family residential mortgage loans held for investment are generally originated or acquired through our mortgage banking production divisions and transferred to the thrift divisions. Held for investment loans may also be acquired from third party sellers. Such loans are typically prime loans as the majority of the subprime loans originated are securitized in private transactions or sold to GSEs. The thrift divisions invest in loans for which they can earn an acceptable return on equity. We are currently investing primarily in ARMs in order to minimize interest rate risk, and to a lesser extent, loan products which we believe the market does not properly price. We may also retain a portion of the loans acquired through our exercise of clean-up calls as these loans are generally high quality, seasoned loans that generate an above-market yield. Home Equity Division Our home equity division specializes in providing HELOC and closed-end second mortgages nationwide through Indymac’s wholesale and retail channels. With a state-of-the-art web-based decision engine, utilizing a streamlined application process and competitive pricing, this division provides homeowners the ability to easily tap the excess equity in their homes for a variety of uses. With the HELOC product, homeowners have convenient access to their funds using the Indymac Visa Equity Card or equity checks. Consumer Construction Our consumer construction division provides construction financing for individual consumers who want to build a new primary residence or second home. Through our streamlined e-MITS online application process, the division offers a single-close construction-to-permanent loan that provides borrowers with the funds to build a primary residence or vacation home. This product typically provides financing for a construction term of 6 to 12 months and automatically converts to a permanent mortgage loan at the end of construction. The end result is a product that represents a hybrid activity between our portfolio lending and mortgage banking activities. The company earns net interest income on these loans during the construction phase and the loans are generally fixed-rate during that period. When the home is completed, the loan automatically converts to a permanent mortgage loan without any additional cost or closing documents, which is typically sold in the secondary market or acquired by the SFR mortgage loan portfolio. Approximately 60% of new commitments are generated through mortgage broker customers of the Mortgage Bank and the remaining 40% of new commitments are retail originations. Builder Construction Our homebuilder division provides land acquisition, development and construction financing to homebuilders for residential construction. Builder construction loans are typically adjustable rate loans, indexed to the prime interest rate with terms ranging from 12 to 24 months. The Bank earns net interest income on these loans. The homebuilder division has central operations in Pasadena, California; with 15 satellite sales offices in California, Florida, Illinois, Arizona, Massachusetts, North Carolina, Oregon and Colorado. Our typical customer is a middle size, professional homebuilder who builds between 200 and 2,000 homes per year. We do a limited amount of business with large private and public homebuilders, and have begun a small homebuilder program for homebuilders building 5 to 25 unit projects, and who typically build 5 to 100 homes per year. 10 Warehouse Lending We reentered the warehouse lending business in first quarter of 2005. Our warehouse lending group offers short-term lines of credit to approved correspondent sellers nationwide. The group functions as a financial intermediary for lenders, providing them with the financial capacity to fund loans and hold them on the balance sheet until they are sold to approved investors. The primary sources of revenue for the thrift divisions are net interest income on loans and securities, and to a lesser extent, the gain on sale of HELOCs. SEGMENTS Indymac is structured to achieve synergies among its operations and to enhance customer service, operating through its two main segments, the Mortgage Banking and the Thrift segments. The common denominator of the Company’s business is providing consumers with single-family residential mortgages through relationships with each segment’s core customers via the channel in which each operates. For further information on the revenues earned and expenses incurred by each of our segments, refer to “Note 3 — Segment Reporting” included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements incorporated herein. REGULATION AND SUPERVISION GENERAL As a savings and loan holding company, Indymac Bancorp is subject to regulation by the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”) under the savings and loan holding company provisions of the Federal Home Owners’ Loan Act (“HOLA”). As a federally chartered and insured savings and loan association, Indymac Bank is subject to regulation, supervision and periodic examination by the OTS, which is the primary federal regulator of savings associations, and the FDIC, in its role as federal deposit insurer. The primary purpose of regulatory examination and supervision is to protect depositors, financial institutions and the financial system as a whole rather than the shareholders of financial institutions or their holding companies. The following summary is not intended to be a complete description of the applicable laws and regulations or their effects on us, and it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statutory and regulatory provisions described. REGULATION OF INDYMAC BANK General Both Indymac Bank and the Company are required to file periodic reports with the OTS concerning our activities and financial condition. The OTS has substantial enforcement authority with respect to savings associations, including authority to bring enforcement actions against a savings association and any of its “institution-affiliated parties,” which term includes directors, officers, employees, controlling shareholders, agents and other persons who participate in the conduct of the affairs of the institution. The FDIC has “backup” enforcement authority over us and has the power to terminate a savings association’s FDIC deposit insurance. In addition, we are subject to regulations of the Federal Reserve Board relating to equal credit opportunity, electronic fund transfers, collection of checks, truth in lending, truth in savings, and availability of funds for deposit customers. Qualified Thrift Lender Test Like all savings and loan holding company subsidiaries, Indymac Bank is required to meet a qualified thrift lender (“QTL”) test to avoid certain restrictions on our operations, including the activities restrictions applicable to multiple savings and loan holding companies, restrictions on our ability to branch interstate and 11 Indymac Bancorp’s mandatory registration as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. A savings association satisfies the QTL test if: (i) on a monthly average basis, for at least nine months out of each twelve month period, at least 65% of a specified asset base of the savings association consists of loans to small businesses, credit card loans, educational loans, or certain assets related to domestic residential real estate, including residential mortgage loans and mortgage securities; or (ii) at least 60% of the savings association’s total assets consist of cash, U.S. government or government agency debt or equity securities, fixed assets, or loans secured by deposits, real property used for residential, educational, church, welfare, or health purposes, or real property in certain urban renewal areas. Indymac Bank is currently, and expects to remain, in compliance with QTL standards. Regulatory Capital Requirements OTS capital regulations require savings associations to satisfy three sets of capital requirements: tangible capital, Tier 1 (leverage) capital, and risk-based capital. In general, an association’s tangible capital, which must be at least 1.5% of adjusted total assets, is the sum of common shareholders’ equity adjusted for the effects of other comprehensive income (“OCI”), less goodwill and other disallowed assets. An association’s ratio of Tier 1 capital to adjusted total assets (the “core capital” or “leverage” ratio) must be at least 3% for the most highly rated associations and 4% for others. Higher capital ratios may be required if warranted by the particular circumstances, risk profile, or growth rate of a given association. Under the risk-based capital requirement, a savings association must have Tier 1 capital equal to at least 4% of risk-weighted assets and total capital (core capital plus supplementary capital) equal to at least 8% of risk-weighted assets. Tier 1 capital must represent at least 50% of total capital and consists of core capital elements, which include common shareholders’ equity, qualifying noncumulative, nonredeemable perpetual preferred stock, and minority interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, but exclude goodwill and certain other intangible assets. Supplementary capital mainly consists of qualifying subordinated debt, preferred stock that does not meet Tier 1 capital requirements, and portions of allowance for loan losses. The above capital requirements are viewed as minimum standards by the OTS. The OTS regulations also specify minimum requirements for a savings association to be considered a “well-capitalized institution” as defined in the “prompt corrective action” regulation described below. A “well-capitalized” savings association must have a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% or greater and a leverage ratio of 5% or greater. Indymac Bank currently meets, and expects to continue to meet, all of the requirements of a “well-capitalized institution.” The OTS regulations include prompt corrective action provisions that require certain remedial actions and authorize certain other discretionary actions to be taken by the OTS against a savings association that falls within specified categories of capital deficiency. The relevant regulations establish five categories of capital classification for this purpose, ranging from “well-capitalized” or “adequately capitalized” through “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized.” In general, the prompt corrective action regulations prohibit an OTS-regulated institution from declaring any dividends, making any other capital distributions, or paying a management fee to a controlling person, such as its parent holding company, if, following the distribution or payment, the institution would be within any of the three undercapitalized categories. Insurance of Deposit Accounts Deposits of the Bank are presently insured by the Savings Association Insurance Fund (“SAIF”), which is administered by the FDIC, up to $100,000 per depositor. The FDIC has established a risk-based system for setting deposit insurance assessments. Under the risk-based assessment system, a savings association’s insurance assessments vary according to the level of capital the institution holds and the degree to which it is the subject of supervisory concern. Insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the savings association has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC or the OTS. 12 Capital Distribution Regulations OTS regulations limit “capital distributions” by savings associations, which include, among other things, dividends and payments for stock repurchases. A savings association that is a subsidiary of a savings and loan holding company must notify the OTS of a capital distribution at least 30 days prior to the proposed declaration of dividends or the approval by the association’s board of directors of the proposed capital distribution. The 30-day period provides the OTS with an opportunity to object to the proposed distribution if it believes that the distribution would not be advisable. An application to the OTS for specific approval to pay a dividend, rather than the notice procedure described above, is required if: (a) the total of all capital distributions made during a calendar year (including the proposed distribution) exceeds the sum of the institution’s year-to-date net income and its retained income for the preceding two years, (b) the institution is not eligible under OTS regulations for “expedited treatment” (which is generally available to institutions the OTS regards as well run and adequately capitalized), (c) the institution would not be at least “adequately capitalized” following the proposed capital distribution, or (d) the distribution would violate an applicable statute, regulation, agreement, or written condition imposed on the institution by the OTS. Community Reinvestment Act and the Fair Lending Laws Savings associations are examined under the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) and related regulations of the OTS on the extent of their efforts to help meet the credit needs of their communities, including low and moderate-income neighborhoods. In addition, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act, together known as the “Fair Lending Laws,” prohibit lenders from discriminating in their lending practices on the basis of characteristics specified in those statutes. Enforcement of these regulations has been an important focus of federal regulatory authorities and of community groups in recent years. A failure by Indymac Bank to comply with the provisions of the CRA could, at a minimum, result in adverse action on branch and certain other corporate applications, and regulatory restrictions on our activities, and failure to comply with the Fair Lending Laws could result in enforcement actions by the OTS, as well as other federal regulatory agencies and the Department of Justice. Indymac Bank received an overall “Satisfactory” rating during our most recent CRA evaluation. Privacy Protection The OTS has adopted privacy protection regulations which require each savings association to adopt procedures to protect consumers’ and customers’ “nonpublic personal information.” It is Indymac Bank’s policy not to share customers’ information with any unaffiliated third parties, except as expressly permitted by law, or to allow third party companies to provide marketing services on our behalf, or under joint marketing agreements between us and other unaffiliated financial institutions. In addition to federal laws and regulations, we are required to comply with any privacy requirements prescribed by California and other states in which we do business that afford consumers with protections greater than those provided under federal law. INCOME TAX CONSIDERATIONS We report our income on a calendar year basis using the accrual method of accounting. We are subject to federal income taxation under existing provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, in generally the same manner as other corporations. We are also subject to state taxes in the areas in which we conduct business. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2005, we had 6,441 full-time equivalent employees, including 726 temporary employees. We believe that we have generally good relations with our employees. 13 COMPETITION We face significant competition in acquiring and selling loans. In our mortgage banking operations, we compete with other mortgage bankers, GSEs, established third party lending programs, investment banking firms, banks, savings and loan associations, and other lenders and entities purchasing mortgage assets. With regard to MBS issued through our mortgage banking operations, we face competition from other investment opportunities available to prospective investors. We estimate our market share of the U.S. mortgage market to be approximately 2.19% based on the full year 2005 mortgage production. A number of our competitors have significantly larger market share and financial resources. We seek to compete with financial institutions and mortgage companies through an emphasis on quality of service, diversified products and maximum use of technology. The GSEs have made and we believe will continue to make significant technological and economic advances to broaden their customer bases. When the GSEs contract or expand, there are both positive and negative impacts on our mortgage banking lending operations. As GSEs expand, additional liquidity is brought to the market, and loan products can be resold more quickly. Conversely, expanding GSEs increase competition for loans, which may reduce profit margins on loan sales. We seek to address these competitive pressures by making a strong effort to maximize our use of technology, by diversifying into other residential mortgage products that are less affected by GSEs, and by operating in a more cost-effective manner than our competitors. WEBSITE ACCESS TO UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION FILINGS All reports filed electronically by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current event reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, are made accessible as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC at no cost on our website at www.IndymacBank.com. These filings are also accessible on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. We have a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that is applicable to all of our employees, officers and directors, including the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the principal accounting officer. We also adopted formal corporate governance standards in January 2002, which the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors reviews annually to ensure they incorporate recent corporate governance developments and generally meet the corporate governance needs of Indymac. You may obtain copies of each of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the Board of Directors’ Guidelines for Corporate Governance Issues by accessing the “Corporate Governance” subsection of the “Investors” section of www.IndymacBank.com, or free of charge by writing to our Corporate Secretary at IndyMac Bancorp, Inc., 888 East Walnut Street, Pasadena, California 91101. Indymac intends to post amendments to or waivers of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (to the extent applicable to Indymac’s principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer) at the website location referenced above. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS KEY OPERATING RISKS Like all businesses, we assume a certain amount of risk in order to earn returns on our capital. For further information on these and other key operating risks, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 14 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 