ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks and other information in this Form 10-K should be studied carefully prior to making an investment decision in our common stock. The following risks and uncertainties could materially negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The risks described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks that we may not presently be aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also have a negative impact on our business operations. We face substantial capital requirements and financial risks. Our business requires a substantial investment of capital. The development, production, acquisition and distribution of motion pictures require a significant amount of capital. A significant amount of time may elapse between our expenditure of funds and the receipt of commercial revenues from or government contributions or other subsidies to our motion pictures. This time lapse requires us to fund a significant portion of our capital requirements from working capital, distribution advances or from other financing sources. Although we intend to continue to reduce the risks of our working capital exposure through financial contributions from broadcasters and distributors, tax and location incentives, government and industry programs, other studios and other sources, we cannot assure you that we will continue to implement successfully these arrangements or that we will not be subject to substantial financial risks relating to the development, production, acquisition, completion and release of future motion pictures. Failure to generate revenues from new titles or other sources will increase the Company’s dependence on its existing library income. We cannot assure you that this income will be sufficient to provide working capital to cover the overhead expenses of the Company. If we increase (through internal growth or acquisition) our production slate or our production budgets, we may be required to increase overhead and/or make larger up-front payments to talent and, consequently, bear greater financial risks. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The costs of producing and marketing feature films have steadily increased and may further increase in the future, which may make it more difficult for a film to generate a profit or compete against other films. The costs of producing and marketing feature films have generally increased in recent years. These costs may continue to increase in the future, which may make it more difficult for our films to generate a profit or compete against other films. Historically, production costs and marketing costs have risen at a higher rate than increases in either the number of domestic admissions to movie theaters or admission ticket prices. A continuation of this trend would leave us more dependent on other media, such as home video, television, international markets and new media for revenue, and the revenues from such sources may not be sufficient to offset an increase in the cost of motion picture production. If we cannot successfully exploit these other media, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Budget overruns may adversely affect our business. Our business model requires that we be efficient in the production of our motion pictures. Actual motion picture production costs often exceed their budgets, sometimes significantly. The production, completion and distribution of motion pictures is subject to a number of uncertainties, including delays and increased expenditures due to creative differences among key cast members and other key creative personnel or other disruptions or events beyond our control. Risks such as death or disability of star performers, technical complications with special effects or other aspects of production, shortages of necessary equipment, damage to film negatives, master tapes and recordings or adverse weather conditions may cause cost overruns and delay or frustrate completion of a production. If a motion picture incurs substantial budget overruns, we may have to seek additional financing from outside sources to complete production. We cannot make assurances regarding the availability of such financing on terms acceptable to us, and the lack of such financing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, if a motion picture incurs substantial budget overruns, we cannot assure you that we will recoup these costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Increased costs incurred with respect to a particular film may result in any such film not being ready for release at the intended time and the postponement to a potentially less favorable time, all of which could cause a decline in box office performance, and, thus, the overall financial success of such film. Budget overruns could also prevent a picture from being completed or released. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate significantly. Revenues and results of operations are difficult to predict and depend on a variety of factors. Our revenues and results of operations depend significantly upon the commercial success of the motion pictures that are in distribution by third parties. Income from distribution agreements cannot be predicted with certainty. Accordingly, our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period, and the results of any one period or periods may not be indicative of the results for any future period or periods. As a result, we may not be able to achieve our internal production targets or any publicly projected earnings targets. 8 In addition, our activities may be negatively impacted by the success of other film or TV productions, their release timing, creative content or attached creative personnel or other factors beyond our immediate control. These factors may affect the projected commercial success of our own productions and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on a few major distributors for a material portion of our business and the loss of any of those distributors could reduce our revenues and operating results. A material part of our revenue is derived from distribution contracts with a few distribution companies. These revenues are reliant on the distributor remaining in business and continuing to promote the Company’s titles that are represented in the respective agreements. If any of these distributors’ revenues significantly reduce or otherwise face financial difficulties, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues and results of operations are vulnerable to currency fluctuations. We report our revenues and results of operations in U.S. dollars, but a portion of our revenues is earned outside of the U.S. Our principal currency exposure is currently limited, since the international rights to the majority of titles in our library were sold in 1996 and income from outside the USA is limited to certain individual titles and territories. However, we cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on revenues and operating margins and fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, we may experience currency exposure on distribution and production revenues and expenses from foreign countries, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Accounting practices used in our industry may accentuate fluctuations in operating results. In addition to the cyclical nature of the entertainment industry, our accounting practices (which are standard for the industry) may accentuate fluctuations in our operating results. We amortize film costs in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and industry practice. These accounting methods may be changed from time to time due to legislative change or change in applicable circumstances. Results of operations in future years depend upon our amortization of our film and related costs. Periodic adjustments in amortization rates may significantly affect these results. In addition, we are required to expense film advertising costs as incurred, but are also required to recognize the revenue from any motion picture over the entire revenue stream expected to be generated by the individual picture. We have incurred significant losses in the past and there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements were prepared using accounting principles generally accepted in the United States applicable to a going concern which contemplates the realization of assets and payment of liabilities in the normal course of business. However at April 30, 2009, we had a deficit in working capital of $582,899 and an accumulated deficit of approximately $26,658,000. Our registered independent accounting firm has issued a going concern opinion, indicating that these conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we will be able to continue as a going concern. Failure to manage future growth may adversely affect our business. We are subject to risks associated with possible acquisitions, business combinations, or joint ventures. From time to time, we engage in discussions and activities with respect to possible acquisitions, business combinations, or joint ventures intended to complement or expand our business. We may not realize the anticipated benefit from any of the transactions we pursue. Irrespective of whether we consummate any such considered transaction, the negotiation of a potential transaction (including associated litigation and proxy contests), as well as the integration of the acquired business, could require us to incur significant costs and cause diversion of management’s time and resources. Any such transaction could also result in impairment of goodwill and other intangibles, development write-offs and other related expenses. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to integrate any business that we acquire or have acquired or with which we combine or have combined. Integrating any business that we acquire or have acquired or with which we combine or have combined is distracting to our management and disruptive to our business and may result in significant costs to us. We could face challenges in consolidating functions and integrating procedures, information technology and accounting systems, personnel and operations in a timely and efficient manner. If any such integration is unsuccessful, or if the integration takes longer than anticipated, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may have difficulty managing the combined entity in the short term if we experience a significant loss of management personnel during the transition period after the significant acquisition. 9 Claims against us relating to any acquisition or business combination may necessitate our seeking claims against the seller for which the seller may not indemnify us or that may exceed the seller’s indemnification obligations. There may be liabilities assumed in any acquisition or business combination that we did not discover or that we underestimated in the course of performing our due diligence investigation. Although a seller generally will have indemnification obligations to us under an acquisition or merger agreement, these obligations usually will be subject to financial limitations, such as general deductibles and maximum recovery amounts, as well as time limitations. We cannot assure you that our right to indemnification from any seller will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the amount of any undiscovered or underestimated liabilities that we may incur. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to obtain additional funding to meet our requirements. Our ability to grow through acquisitions, business combinations and joint ventures, to maintain and expand our development, production and distribution of motion pictures and to fund our operating expenses depends upon our ability to obtain funds through equity financing, debt financing (including credit facilities) or the sale or syndication of some or all of our interests in certain projects or other assets. If we do not have access to such financing arrangements, and if other funding does not become available on terms acceptable to us, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our filmed content library revenues comes from a small number of titles. We depend on a limited number of titles for the majority of the revenues generated by our filmed content library. In addition, some of the titles in our library are not presently distributed or actively promoted and generate no revenue. If we cannot acquire new product and the rights to popular titles through production, distribution agreements, acquisitions, mergers, joint ventures or other strategic alliances, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are limited in our ability to exploit a portion of our filmed content library. Our rights to the titles in our film library vary; in some cases we have only the right to distribute titles in certain media and territories for a limited term. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew expiring rights on acceptable terms. Any failure to renew titles generating a significant portion of our revenue may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends on external factors in the motion picture and entertainment industry. Our success depends on the commercial success of motion pictures which is unpredictable. Operating in the motion picture or entertainment industry involves a substantial degree of risk. Each motion picture is an individual artistic work, and inherently unpredictable audience reactions primarily determine commercial success. Generally, the popularity of our motion pictures or programs depends on many factors, including the critical acclaim they receive, the format of their initial release, for example, theatrical or direct-to-video, the actors and other key talent, their genre and their specific subject matter. The commercial success of our motion pictures also depends upon the quality and acceptance of motion pictures or programs that our competitors release into the marketplace at or near the same time, critical reviews, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, many of which we do not control and all of which may change. We cannot predict the future effects of these factors with certainty, any of which factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, because a motion picture’s performance in ancillary markets, such as home video and pay and free television, is often directly related to its box office performance or television ratings, poor box office results or poor television ratings may negatively affect future revenue streams. Our success will depend on the experience and judgment of our management to select and develop new investment and production opportunities. We cannot make assurances that our motion pictures will obtain favorable reviews or ratings or that our motion pictures will perform well at the box office or in ancillary markets or renew licenses to broadcast programs in our library. The failure to achieve any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the United States, global or regional economic conditions could adversely affect the profitability of our business. A decrease in economic activity in the U.S. or in other regions of the world in which we do business could adversely affect demand for our films, thus reducing our revenue and earnings. A decline in economic conditions could reduce performance of our theatrical, television and home entertainment releases. In addition, an increase in price levels generally, or in price levels in a particular sector such as the energy sector, could result in a shift in consumer demand away from the entertainment we offer, which could also adversely affect our revenues and, at the same time, increase our costs. 10 Licensed distributors’ failure to promote our programs may adversely affect our business. Licensed distributors’ decisions regarding the timing of release and promotional support of our motion pictures, and any related products are important in determining the success of these titles and products. We do not control the timing and manner in which our licensed distributors distribute our titles. Any decision by those distributors not to distribute or promote one of our titles or to promote our competitors’ motion pictures or related products to a greater extent than they promote ours could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We could be adversely affected by strikes or other union job actions. We are both directly and indirectly dependent upon highly specialized union members who are essential to the production of motion pictures. A strike by, or a lockout of, one or more of the unions that provide personnel essential to the development or production of motion pictures could delay or halt our ongoing development or production activities. Work stoppages by members of a Guild or union in the future may, depending on the length of time, cause a delay or interruption in our development or production of new motion pictures which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face substantial competition in all aspects of our business. We are smaller and less diversified than many of our competitors. As an independent producer, we constantly compete with major U.S. and international studios. Most of the major U.S. studios are part of large diversified corporate groups with a variety of other operations, including television networks and cable channels that can provide both the means of distributing their products and stable sources of earnings that may allow them better to offset fluctuations in the financial performance of their motion picture operations. In addition, the major studios have more resources with which to compete for ideas, storylines and scripts created by third parties as well as for actors, directors and other personnel required for production. The resources of the major studios may also give them an advantage in acquiring other businesses or assets, including film libraries, that we might also be interested in acquiring. Our inability to compete successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The motion picture industry is highly competitive and at times may create an oversupply of motion pictures in the market. The number of motion pictures released by our competitors, particularly the major U.S. studios, may create an oversupply of product in the market, reduce our share of box office receipts and make it more difficult for our films to succeed commercially. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that we can release all of our films when they are scheduled. In addition to production or other delays that might cause us to alter our release schedule, a change in the schedule of a major studio may force us to alter the release date of a film because we cannot always compete with a major studio’s larger promotion campaign. Any such change could adversely impact a film’s financial performance. In addition, if we cannot change our schedule after such a change by a major studio because we are too close to the release date, the major studio’s release and its typically larger promotion budget may adversely impact the financial performance of our film. The foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The limited supply of motion picture screens compounds this product oversupply problem. Currently, a substantial majority of the motion picture screens in the U.S. typically are committed at any one time to only 30 to 35 films distributed nationally by major studio distributors. In addition, as a result of changes in the theatrical exhibition industry, including reorganizations and consolidations and the fact that major studio releases occupy more screens, the number of screens available to us when we want to release a picture may decrease. If the number of motion picture screens decreases, box office receipts, and the correlating future revenue streams, such as from home video and pay and free television, of our motion pictures may also decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We must successfully respond to rapid technological changes and alternative forms of delivery or storage to remain competitive. The entertainment industry in general and the motion picture and television industries in particular continue to undergo significant technological developments. Advances in technologies or alternative methods of product delivery or storage or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery and storage could have a negative effect on our business. Examples of such advances in technologies include video-on-demand, new video formats and downloading and streaming from the internet. If we cannot successfully exploit these and other emerging technologies, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 11 We face risks from doing business internationally. We develop motion picture material with a view to take advantage of international subsidies and other international financing opportunities. As a result, our business is subject to certain risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include; laws and policies affecting trade, investment and taxes, including laws and policies relating to the repatriation of funds and withholding taxes, and changes in these laws; changes in local regulatory requirements, including restrictions on content; differing cultural tastes and attitudes; copyright law and intellectual property protection; financial instability and increased market concentration of buyers in foreign television markets, including in European pay television markets; the instability of foreign economies and governments; fluctuating foreign exchange rates; health and environmental risks; and war and acts of terrorism. Events or developments related to these and other risks associated with international trade could adversely affect our revenues from non-U.S. sources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Protecting and defending against intellectual property claims may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to compete depends, in part, upon successful protection of our intellectual property. We do not have the financial resources to protect our rights to the same extent as major studios. We attempt to protect proprietary and intellectual property rights to our productions through available copyright and trademark laws and licensing and distribution arrangements with reputable international companies in specific territories and media for limited durations. Despite these precautions, existing copyright and trademark laws afford only limited practical protection in certain countries. We also distribute our products in other countries in which there is no copyright or trademark protection. As a result, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy and distribute our productions or certain portions or applications of our intended productions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Litigation may also be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that infringement or invalidity claims will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Regardless of the validity or the success of the assertion of these claims, we could incur significant costs and diversion of resources in enforcing our intellectual property rights or in defending against such claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us. One of the risks of the film production business is the possibility that others may claim that our productions and production techniques misappropriate or infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties with respect to their previously developed films, stories, characters, other entertainment or intellectual property. We are likely to receive in the future claims of infringement or misappropriation of other parties’ proprietary rights. Any such assertions or claims may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Irrespective of the validity or the successful assertion of such claims, we could incur significant costs and diversion of resources in defending against them, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any claims or actions are asserted against us, we may seek to settle such claim by obtaining a license from the plaintiff covering the disputed intellectual property rights. We cannot provide any assurances, however, that under such circumstances a license, or any other form of settlement, would be available on reasonable terms or at all. Our business involves risks of liability claims for media content, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a distributor of media content, we may face potential liability for: · defamation; · invasion of privacy; · negligence; · copyright or trademark infringement (as discussed above); · other claims based on the nature and content of the materials distributed. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against producers and distributors of media content. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 Piracy of motion pictures, including digital and internet piracy may reduce the gross receipts from the exploitation of our films. Motion picture piracy is extensive in many parts of the world and is made easier by technological advances and the conversion of motion pictures into digital formats. This trend facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high quality unauthorized copies of motion pictures in theatrical release, on videotapes and DVDs, from pay-per-view through set top boxes and other devices and through unlicensed broadcasts on free television and the internet. The proliferation of unauthorized copies of these products has had and will likely continue to have an adverse effect on our business, because these products reduce the revenue we received from the distribution of our own products. In particular, unauthorized copying and piracy are prevalent in countries outside of the U.S., Canada and Western Europe, where the prevailing legal systems may make it difficult for us to enforce our intellectual property rights. As a result, we may lose revenue as a result of motion picture piracy. Our success depends on certain key employees. Our success depends to a significant extent on the performance of a number of senior management personnel and other key employees, including production and creative personnel. We do not currently have significant “key person” life insurance policies for any of our employees. Our inability to provide competitive employment terms and conditions may materially affect our ability to retain the services of key employees. In addition, competition for the limited number of business, production and creative personnel necessary to create and distribute quality entertainment content is intense and may grow in the future. Our inability to retain or successfully replace where necessary members of our senior management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. To be successful, we need to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our success continues to depend to a significant extent on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train and retain qualified professional, creative, technical and managerial personnel. Competition for the caliber of talent required to produce our motion pictures continues to increase. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in identifying, attracting, hiring, training and retaining such personnel in the future. If we were unable to hire, assimilate and retain qualified personnel in the future, such inability would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are delisted from the Pink Sheets or fail to achieve and maintain full trading status in the future, it may affect our fund-raising capabilities. Fund raising activities are heavily dependent on our common stock being tradable and the Company wishes to achieve an over the counter listing on the Bulletin Board (OTCBB) to facilitate fund raising activities. However, the administrative and ongoing expenditure requirements to achieve and maintain such a listing require continuous funding at a level much higher than a private company. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or maintain funding or generate revenues at a level sufficient to maintain a publicly trading status. This would also have a serious negative impact on the Company’s ability to achieve its operating targets and severely limit the possibilities regarding sale or disposal of share ownership in the Company. If our stock price fluctuates, you could lose a significant part of your investment. The market price of our common shares may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, changes in financial estimates by analysts, announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, productions, acquisitions or capital commitments, variations in quarterly operating results, general economic conditions, terrorist acts, future sales of our common shares and investor perception of us and the filmmaking industry. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Our internal control over financial reporting is not effective and our failure to remedy our internal control over financial reporting could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the accompanying rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement it, require us to include in our Form 10-K an annual report by our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. Our management evaluated the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of April 30, 2009 and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective due to insufficient accounting and administrative personnel. If we fail to remedy our internal control over financial reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price. 13 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. ITEM 