ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors and warnings before making an investment decision. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. You should also understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and should not consider the following list to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. If any of the risks described below actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the price of our securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to other information set forth in this document. We assume no obligation, and disclaim any duty, to update risk factors in this report except as required by law. General economic conditions, including difficult credit and residential construction markets, affect demand for our products. We compete around the world in various geographic regions and product markets. Among these, the most significant are global industrial markets (for both Technical Products and Water & Fluid Solutions) and residential markets (for Water & Fluid Solutions). Important factors for our businesses include the overall strength of the economy and our customers’ confidence in the economy; industrial and governmental capital spending; the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets; unemployment rates; availability of consumer and commercial financing for our customers and end-users; and interest rates. New construction for housing and home improvement activity fell in 2007, 2008 and 2009, which reduced revenue growth in the residential business within Water & Fluid Solutions. While we saw some stabilization in 2010 and 2011, we believe that weakness in this market could negatively impact our revenues and margins in future periods. While we attempt to minimize our exposure to economic or market fluctuations by serving a balanced mix of end markets and geographic regions, we cannot assure you that a significant or sustained downturn in a specific end market or geographic region would not have a material adverse effect on us. We are exposed to political, regulatory, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. Sales outside of the United States, including export sales from our domestic businesses, accounted for approximately 40% of our net sales in 2011. Further, most of our businesses obtain some products, components and raw materials from foreign suppliers. Accordingly, our business is subject to the political, regulatory, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. These risks include: • changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; • relatively more severe economic conditions in some international markets than in the United States; • the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; 5 Table of Contents • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements and restrictions; • the possibility of terrorist action affecting us or our operations; • the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other trade restrictions; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations in non-U.S. labor markets; • changes in tax laws or rulings could have an adverse impact on our effective tax rate; • the difficulty of protecting intellectual property in foreign countries; and • changes in and required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations. As a result of our international operations and sales, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of improper payments. Our international activities create risk under such laws because our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors are not always subject to our direct control. Any violations or alleged violations of these laws could result in significant fines or settlements, criminal sanctions against us or our employees, reputational damage and prohibitions on the conduct of our business, including our business with the U.S. government. Our business success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. We cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business as a whole. Our international operations are subject to foreign market and currency fluctuation risks and the European Union debt crisis could adversely affect our results. We expect the percentage of our sales outside of the United States to continue to increase in the future. In some cases, foreign markets are susceptible to greater political, economic and social volatility than in our other markets. Furthermore, our increased foreign business operations expose us to currency fluctuations which could materially affect our financial results. The European Union currently accounts for the majority of our foreign sales and income. The current debt crisis in Europe could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in certain European Union countries or in the wholesale dissolution of the euro currency. The resulting impact on euro-denominated obligations and assets is impossible to predict, but it could adversely affect the value of such obligations and assets. Also, the effect of the debt crisis in Europe could have an adverse affect on the capital markets generally, specifically impacting the ability of our business and financial partners to finance their businesses on acceptable terms, if at all, the availability of materials and supplies and demand for our products. Our inability to sustain organic growth could adversely affect our financial performance. Over the past five years, our organic growth has been generated in part from expanding international sales, entering new distribution channels, introducing new products and price increases. To grow more rapidly than our end markets, we would have to continue to expand our geographic reach, further diversify our distribution channels, continue to introduce new products and increase sales of existing products to our customer base. Difficult economic and competitive factors may materially and adversely impact our financial performance. We have chosen to focus our growth initiatives in specific end markets and geographies. We cannot assure you that these growth initiatives will be sufficient to offset revenue declines in other markets. We may not be able to expand through acquisitions and acquisitions we complete may adversely affect our financial performance. We intend to continue to evaluate strategic acquisitions primarily in our current business segments, though we may consider acquisitions outside of these segments as well. Our ability to expand through acquisitions is subject to various risks, including the following: • Limitations on pursuing acquisitions due to increased leverage; 6 Table of Contents • Higher acquisition prices; • Lack of suitable acquisition candidates in targeted product or market areas; and • Increased competition for acquisitions, especially in the water industry. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, any benefits may take longer to realize than we expect and acquisitions we complete may adversely affect our financial performance. Any acquisition involves the integration of acquired operations with our existing operations and there are uncertainties inherent in such an integration. We will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to such an integration and delays or unexpected difficulties in the integration process could adversely affect our business, financial results and financial condition. Even if we are successful in integrating acquired operations, we may not achieve the full benefits of revenue synergies, cost savings and operational efficiencies that we expect or within the time we expect. Acquisitions we may undertake could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, particularly in the fiscal quarters immediately following the acquisitions, while we attempt to integrate operations of the acquired businesses into our operations. In addition, we may have not discovered during due diligence all facts and factors that could produce unintended or unexpected consequences for us, including financial liabilities, which could be material and result in us not achieving the expected benefits from the acquisition within our desired time frames, if at all. As we continue our integration of CPT’s operations with our existing operations, uncertainties remain and we may not achieve the full expected benefits of that acquisition, including revenue synergies, cost savings and operational efficiencies, or within the time we expect. Increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2011, we had $1,309.1 million of total debt on a consolidated basis. Any future increase in our level of indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation: • cash requirements to support the payment of interest on our outstanding indebtedness may increase; • increases in our outstanding indebtedness and leverage may increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes may be reduced; • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry may be reduced; and • our flexibility to make acquisitions and develop technology may be limited. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements, we may be required, among other things: • to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; • to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; • to sell selected assets or businesses; or • to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. 7 Table of Contents Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms, if at all. The availability and cost of capital could have a negative impact on our financial performance. Our plans to vigorously compete in our chosen markets will require additional capital for future acquisitions, capital expenditures, growth of working capital and continued international and regional expansion. In the past, we have financed growth of our businesses primarily through cash from operations and debt financing. While we have availability under our primary credit agreements on what we believe to be favorable terms, future acquisitions or other uses of funds may require us to expand our debt financing resources or to issue equity securities. Our financial results may be adversely affected if new financing is not available on favorable terms or if interest costs under our debt financings are higher than the income generated by acquisitions or other internal growth. In addition, future share issuances could be dilutive to your equity investment if we sell shares into the market or issue additional stock as consideration in any acquisition. We cannot assure you that we will be able to issue equity securities or obtain future debt financing at favorable terms. Without sufficient financing, we will not be able to pursue our targeted growth strategy and our acquisition program, which may limit our revenue growth and future financial performance. We have significant goodwill and intangible assets and future impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets could have a material negative impact on our financial results. We test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, by comparing the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units to their respective carrying values on their balance sheets. At December 31, 2011 our goodwill and intangible assets were approximately $2,866.2 million and represented approximately 62.5% of our total assets. Long-term declines in projected future cash flows could result in future goodwill and intangible asset impairments. Because of the significance of our goodwill and intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we completed our annual goodwill impairment review. As a result, we recorded a pre-tax non-cash impairment charge of $200.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2011. This represents impairment of goodwill in our Residential Filtration reporting unit, part of Water & Fluid Solutions. The impairment charge resulted from changes in our forecasts in light of economic conditions prevailing in these markets and due to continued softness in the end-markets served by residential water treatment components. Material cost and other inflation have adversely affected and could continue to affect our results of operations. In the past, we have experienced material cost and other inflation in a number of our businesses. We strive for productivity improvements and implement increases in selling prices to help mitigate cost increases in raw materials (especially metals and resins), energy and other costs such as pension, health care and insurance. We continue to implement operational initiatives in order to mitigate the impacts of this inflation and continuously reduce our costs. We cannot assure you, however, that these actions will be successful in managing our costs or increasing our productivity. Continued cost inflation or failure of our initiatives to generate cost savings or improve productivity would likely negatively impact our results of operations. Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets, so we may be forced to cut prices or to incur additional costs. Our businesses generally face substantial competition in each of their respective markets. Competition may force us to cut prices or to incur additional costs to remain competitive. We compete on the basis of product design, quality, availability, performance, customer service and price. Present or future competitors may have greater 8 Table of Contents financial, technical or other resources which could put us at a disadvantage in the affected business or businesses. We cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. Seasonality of sales and weather conditions may adversely affect our financial results. We experience seasonal demand in a number of markets within Water & Fluid Solutions. End-user demand for pool equipment in our primary markets follows warm weather trends and is at seasonal highs from April to August. The magnitude of the sales increase is partially mitigated by employing some advance sale or “early buy” programs (generally including extended payment terms and/or additional discounts). Demand for residential and agricultural water systems is also impacted by weather patterns, particularly by heavy flooding and droughts. We cannot assure you that seasonality and weather conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Intellectual property challenges may hinder product development and marketing. Patents, non-compete agreements, proprietary technologies, customer relationships, trade marks, trade names and brand names are important to our business. Intellectual property protection, however, may not preclude competitors from developing products similar to ours or from challenging our names or products. Our pending patent applications, and our pending copyright and trademark registration applications, may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. In addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. Over the past few years, we have noticed an increasing tendency for participants in our markets to use conflicts over and challenges to intellectual property as a means to compete. Patent and trademark challenges increase our costs to develop, engineer and market our products. We may need to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights and we may or may not be able to detect infringement by third parties Our results of operations may be negatively impacted by litigation. Our businesses expose us to potential litigation, such as product liability claims relating to the design, manufacture and sale of our products. While we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms or that this insurance will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. In addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. A series of successful claims against us for significant amounts could materially and adversely affect our product reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are exposed to potential environmental and other laws, liabilities and litigation. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing our environmental practices, public and worker health and safety and the indoor and outdoor environment. Compliance with these environmental, health and safety regulations could require us to satisfy environmental liabilities, increase the cost of manufacturing our products or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any violations of these laws by us could cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities that could harm our operating results and cause our business to suffer. We are also required to comply with various environmental laws and maintain permits, some of which are subject to discretionary renewal from time to time, for many of our businesses and we could suffer if we are unable to renew existing permits or to obtain any additional permits that we may require. We have been named as defendants, targets or potentially responsible parties (“PRP”) in a number of environmental clean-ups relating to our current or former business units. We have disposed of a number of businesses in recent years and in certain cases, we have retained responsibility and potential liability for certain environmental obligations. We have received claims for indemnification from certain purchasers. We may be named as a PRP at other sites in the future for existing business units, as well as both divested and acquired businesses. 9 Table of Contents We cannot ensure you that environmental requirements will not change or become more stringent over time or that our eventual environmental clean-up costs and liabilities will not exceed the amount of our current reserves. We are exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. Climate change is receiving ever increasing attention worldwide. Many scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. The U.S. Congress and federal and state regulatory agencies have been considering legislation and regulatory proposals that would regulate and limit greenhouse gas emissions. It is uncertain whether, when and in what form a federal mandatory carbon dioxide emissions reduction program may be adopted. Similarly, certain countries have adopted the Kyoto Protocol and this and other international initiatives under consideration could affect our international operations. These actions could increase costs associated with our operations, including costs for raw materials and transportation. Because it is uncertain what laws will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 10 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 