Item 1A. Risk Factors The following factors could impact the Company’s business and financial prospects: • UICI may lose business to competitors offering competitive products at lower prices. We compete, and will continue to compete, for customers and distributors with many insurance companies and other financial services companies. We compete not only for business and individual customers, employer and other group customers, but also for agents and distribution relationships. Our competitors may offer a broader array of products than we do, have a greater diversity of distribution resources, have better brand recognition, have more competitive pricing or, have higher financial strength or claims paying ratings. Competitors with sizable market share or provider-owned plans may be able to obtain favorable financial arrangements from health care providers that are not available to us. • Failure to accurately estimate medical claims and health care costs may have a significant impact on the Company’s business and results of operation. If we are unable to accurately estimate medical claims and control health care costs, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We estimate the cost of future medical claims and other expenses using actuarial methods based upon historical data, medical inflation, product mix, seasonality, utilization of health care services and other relevant factors. We establish premiums based on these methods. The premiums we charge our customers generally are fixed for one-year periods, and costs we incur in excess of our medical claim projections generally are not recovered in the contract year through higher premiums. • Failure of our insurance subsidiaries to maintain their current insurance ratings could materially adversely affect UICI’s business and results of operations. Our principal insurance subsidiaries are currently rated by A.M. Best Company, Fitch and Standard & Poor’s. If our insurance subsidiaries are not able to maintain their current rating by A.M. Best Company, Fitch and/or Standard & Poor’s, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Decreases in operating performance and other financial measures may result in a downward adjustment of the rating of our insurance subsidiaries assigned by A.M. Best Company, Fitch or Standard & Poor’s. Other factors beyond our control, such as general downward economic cycles and changes implemented by the rating agencies, including changes in the criteria for the underwriting or the capital adequacy model, may also result in a decrease in the rating. A downward adjustment in rating by A.M. Best Company, Fitch and/or Standard & Poor’s of our insurance subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. • Changes in our relationship with membership associations that make available to their members our health insurance products and/or changes in the laws and regulations governing so-called “association group” insurance could materially adversely affect UICI’s business and results of operations. As is the case with many of our competitors in the self-employed market, a substantial portion of our health insurance products is issued to members of various independent membership associations that act as the master policyholder for such products. The two principal membership associations in the self-employed market that make available to their members our health insurance products are the National Association for the Self-Employed and the Alliance for Affordable Services. The associations provide their members access to a number of benefits and products, including health insurance underwritten by us. Subject to applicable state law, individuals generally may not obtain insurance under an association’s master policy unless they are also members of the association. The agreements with these associations requiring the associations to continue as the master policyholder for our policies and to make our products available to their respective members are terminable by us or the association upon not less than one year’s advance notice to the other party. Our UGA agents and Cornerstone America agents also act as field service representatives (FSRs) for the associations, in which capacity the FSRs enroll new association members and provide membership retention services. For such services, we and the FSRs receive compensation. Specialized Association Services, Inc. (a company controlled by the adult children of the late Ronald L. Jensen (UICI’s former Chairman)) provides 17 administrative and benefit procurement services to the associations. One of our subsidiaries (UICI Marketing, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary and our direct marketing group) generates new membership sales prospect leads for both UGA and Cornerstone for use by the FSRs (agents). UICI Marketing also provides video and print services to the associations and to Specialized Association Services, Inc. In addition to health insurance premiums derived from the sale of health insurance, we receive fee income from the associations, including fees associated with enrollment and member retention services, fees for association membership marketing and administrative services and fees for certain association member benefits. While we believe that we are providing association group coverage in full compliance with applicable law, changes in our relationship with the membership associations and/or changes in the laws and regulations governing so-called “association group” insurance, particularly changes that would subject the issuance of policies to prior premium rate approval and/or require the issuance of policies on a “guaranteed issue” basis, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and/or business. • Our domestic insurance subsidiaries are currently the subject of a multi-state market conduct examination, and an adverse finding or outcome from that examination could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In March 2005, UICI received notification that the Market Analysis Working Group of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners had chosen the states of Washington and Alaska to lead a multi-state market conduct examination of UICI’s principal insurance subsidiaries, The MEGA Life and Health Insurance Company, Mid-West National Life Insurance Company of Tennessee and The Chesapeake Life Insurance Company. That examination commenced in May 2005 and is ongoing. While we do not currently believe that the multi-state market conduct examination will have a material adverse effect upon our consolidated financial position or results of operations, state insurance regulatory agencies have authority to levy monetary fines and penalties resulting from findings made during the course of such examinations. • Negative publicity regarding our business practices and about the health insurance industry in general may harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The health and life insurance industry and related products and services we provide attracts negative publicity from consumer advocate groups and the media. Negative publicity may result in increased regulation and legislative scrutiny of industry practices as well as increased litigation, which may further increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by impeding our ability to market our products and services, requiring us to change our products or services or increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate. • UICI’s failure to secure and enhance cost-effective health care provider network contracts may result in a loss of insureds and/or higher medical costs and adversely affect UICI’s results of operations. Our results of operations and competitive position could be adversely affected by our inability to enter into or maintain satisfactory relationships with networks of hospitals, physicians, dentists, pharmacies and other health care providers. The failure to secure cost-effective health care provider network contracts may result in a loss of insureds or higher medical costs. In addition, the inability to contract with provider networks, the inability to terminate contracts with existing provider networks and enter into arrangements with new provider networks to serve the same market, and/or the inability of providers to provide adequate care, could adversely affect our results of operations. • UICI’s inability to obtain funds from its insurance subsidiaries may cause it to experience reduced cash flow, which could affect the Company’s ability to pay its obligations to creditors as they become due. We are a holding company, the principal assets of which are our investments in our separate operating subsidiaries, including our regulated insurance subsidiaries. Our ability to fund our cash requirements is largely dependent upon our ability to access cash from our subsidiaries. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulations that limit their ability to transfer funds to us. If we are unable to obtain funds from our insurance 18 subsidiaries, we will experience reduced cash flow, which could affect our ability to pay our obligations to creditors as they become due. • A failure of our information systems to provide timely and accurate information could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Information processing is critical to our business, and a failure of our information systems to provide timely and accurate information could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The failure to maintain an effective and efficient information system or disruptions in our information system could cause disruptions in our business operations, including (a) failure to comply with prompt pay laws; (b) loss of existing insureds; (c) difficulty in attracting new insureds; (d) disputes with insureds, providers and agents; (e) regulatory problems; (f) increases in administrative expenses; and (g) other adverse consequences. • Changes in government regulation could increase the costs of compliance or cause us to discontinue marketing our products in certain states. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry, and changes in government regulation could increase the costs of compliance or cause us to discontinue marketing our products in certain states. Some of the new federal and state regulations promulgated under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, relating to health care reform require us to implement changes in our programs and systems in order to maintain compliance. We have incurred significant expenditures as a result of HIPAA regulations and expect to continue to incur expenditures as various regulations become effective. • We may not have enough statutory capital and surplus to continue to write business. Our continued ability to write business is dependent on maintaining adequate levels of statutory capital and surplus to support the policies we write. Our new business writing typically results in net losses on a statutory basis during the early years of a policy. The resulting reduction in statutory surplus, or surplus strain, limits our ability to seek new business due to statutory restrictions on premium to surplus ratios and statutory surplus requirements. If we cannot generate sufficient statutory surplus to maintain minimum statutory requirements through increased statutory profitability, reinsurance or other capital generating alternatives, we will be limited in our ability to realize additional premium revenue from new business writing, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or, in the event that our statutory surplus is not sufficient to meet minimum premium to surplus and risk-based capital ratios in any state, we could be prohibited from writing new policies in such state. • Our reserves for current and future claims may be inadequate and any increase to such reserves could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We calculate and maintain reserves for current and future claims using assumptions about numerous variables, including our estimate of the probability of a policyholder making a claim, the severity and duration of such claim, the mortality rate of our policyholders, the persistency or renewal of our policies in force and the amount of interest we expect to earn from the investment of premiums. The adequacy of our reserves depends on the accuracy of our assumptions. We cannot assure you that our actual experience will not differ from the assumptions used in the establishment of reserves. Any variance from these assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. • Litigation may result in financial losses or harm our reputation and may divert management resources. Current and future litigation may result in financial losses, harm our reputation and require the dedication of significant management resources. We are regularly involved in litigation. The litigation naming us as a defendant ordinarily involves our activities as an insurer. In recent years, many insurance companies, including us, have been named as defendants in class actions relating to market conduct or sales practices. 19 For our general claim litigation, we maintain reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course. Management expects that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to the consolidated financial condition of the Company. Nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain claim litigation involving punitive damages could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in a period, depending on the results of our operations for the particular period. • If we fail to comply with extensive state and federal regulations, we will be subject to penalties, which may include fines and suspension and which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than stockholders and other investors. This regulation, generally administered by a department of insurance in each state in which we do business, relates to, among other things: • approval of policy forms and premium rates; • standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements, which are a measure developed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and used by state insurance regulators to identify insurance companies that potentially are inadequately capitalized; • licensing of insurers and their agents; • restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; • restrictions on transactions between insurance companies and their affiliates; • restrictions on the size of risks insurable under a single policy; • requiring deposits for the benefit of policyholders; • requiring certain methods of accounting; • prescribing the form and content of records of financial condition required to be filed; and • requiring reserves for losses and other purposes. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to the financial condition of insurance companies, holding company issues and other matters. Our business depends on compliance with applicable laws and regulations and our ability to maintain valid licenses and approvals for our operations. Regulatory authorities have broad discretion to grant, renew, or revoke licenses and approvals. Regulatory authorities may deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. In some instances, we follow practices based on our interpretations of regulations, or those that we believe to be generally followed by the industry, which may be different from the requirements or interpretations of regulatory authorities. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals and do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us. That type of action could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our failure to comply with new or existing government regulation could subject us to significant fines and penalties. Our efforts to measure, monitor and adjust our business practices to comply with current laws are ongoing. Failure to comply with enacted regulations could result in significant fines, penalties, or the loss of one or more of our licenses. As governmental regulation changes, the costs of compliance may cause us to change our operations significantly, or adversely impact the health care provider networks with which we do business, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Also, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance industry (whether federal, state or foreign), or changes in laws or regulations themselves or interpretations by regulatory authorities, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 20 • Applicable insurance laws may make it difficult to effect a change of control of UICI. Under the insurance laws of most states, before a person can acquire control of a U.S. insurance company, prior written approval must be obtained from the insurance commissioner of the state where the domestic insurer is domiciled. Generally, state statutes provide that control over a domestic insurer is presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds with the power to vote, or holds proxies representing, 10% or more of the voting securities of the domestic insurer. Before granting approval of an application to acquire control of a domestic insurer, a state insurance commissioner will typically consider such factors as the financial strength of the applicant, the integrity of the applicant’s board of directors and executive officers, the applicant’s plans for the future operations of the domestic insurer and any anti-competitive results that may arise from the completion of the acquisition of control. This requirement may make it difficult to effect a change of control of the surviving corporation in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 