Item 1A. Risk Factors The following factors could impact our business and financial prospects: We may lose business to competitors offering competitive products at lower prices. We compete, and will continue to compete, for customers and distributors with many insurance companies and other financial services companies. We compete not only for the business of customers, but also for agents and distribution relationships. Our competitors may offer a broader array of products than we do, have a greater diversity of distribution resources, have better brand recognition, have more competitive pricing or have higher financial strength or claims paying ratings. Competitors with sizable market share or provider-owned plans may be able to obtain favorable financial arrangements from healthcare providers that are not available to us. 17 Table of Contents Failure to accurately estimate medical claims and healthcare costs may have a significant impact on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to accurately estimate medical claims and control healthcare costs, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We estimate the cost of future medical claims and other expenses using actuarial methods based upon historical data, medical inflation, product mix, seasonality, utilization of healthcare services and other relevant factors. We establish premiums based on these methods. The premiums we charge our customers generally are fixed for six-month or one-year periods, and costs we incur in excess of our medical claim projections generally are not recovered in the contract year through higher premiums. Failure to comply with extensive state and federal regulations could subject us to fines, penalties and suspensions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision. See Item 1. Business — “Regulatory and Legislative Matters” for additional information. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than stockholders and other investors. This regulation, generally administered by a department of insurance in each state in which we do business, relates to, among other things: • licensing of insurers and their agents; • sales and marketing practices; • training and oversight of agents; • handling of consumer complaints and grievances; • approval of policy forms and premium rates; • standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements, which are a measure developed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and used by state insurance regulators to identify insurance companies that potentially are inadequately capitalized; • restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; • restrictions on transactions between insurance companies and their affiliates; • restrictions on the size of risks insurable under a single policy; • requiring deposits for the benefit of policyholders; • requiring certain methods of accounting; • prescribing the form and content of records of financial condition required to be filed; and • requiring reserves for losses and other purposes. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies through, among other things, financial and market conduct examinations, and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to the financial condition of insurance companies, holding company issues and other matters. Regulatory agencies have imposed substantial fines against us in the past, and may impose substantial fines against us in the future if they determine that we have not complied with applicable laws and regulations. See Note 16 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. There is also substantial federal regulation of our business. Laws and regulations adopted by the federal government, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, HIPAA, the USA PATRIOT Act and Do Not Call regulations, establish administrative and compliance requirements applicable to the Company. Our business depends on compliance with applicable laws and regulations and our ability to maintain valid licenses and approvals for our operations. Regulatory authorities have broad discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals. Regulatory authorities may deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. In some instances, we follow practices based on our interpretations of regulations, or those that we believe to be generally followed by the industry, which may be different from the requirements or 18 Table of Contents interpretations of regulatory authorities. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals and do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us. That type of action could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our failure to comply with new or existing government regulation could subject us to significant fines and penalties. Our efforts to measure, monitor and adjust our business practices to comply with current laws are ongoing. Failure to comply with enacted regulations could result in significant fines, penalties or the loss of one or more of our licenses. Changes in government regulation could increase the costs of compliance or cause us to discontinue marketing our products in certain states. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry. See Item 1. Business — “Regulatory and Legislative Matters” for additional information. Changes in the level of government regulation or in the laws and regulations themselves could increase the costs of compliance and result in significant changes to our operations, including potentially causing us to discontinue marketing our products in certain states. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The new Presidential administration and members of Congress have indicated that they intend to enact federal health care reform measures in the near future. Many of these proposals attempt to reduce the number of uninsured by increasing affordability and expanding access to health insurance, including proposals intended to expand eligibility for public programs and compel individuals and employers to purchase health insurance coverage. Certain of these proposals, if implemented, could partially or fully replace some of our current products. In addition, a number of states in which we do business are considering legislation intended to increase affordability or expand coverage of the uninsured. For example, in 2008, the California legislature passed a bill that would have required health insurers to maintain at least an 85% medical loss ratio across all lines of business by 2011. The bill was vetoed by the Governor, but similar legislation has been proposed in 2009. We believe that such legislation, if passed, would have a disproportionate effect on health insurers primarily offering products to the individual market and could have a material adverse effect on our business, including causing us to discontinue marketing our products in states where such legislation is passed. Some of the more significant additional legislative and regulatory developments that could potentially affect our business include the following: • Requiring employers to provide health insurance to employees; • Requiring individuals to purchase health insurance coverage; • Establishing a minimum level of coverage required to satisfy health insurance mandates; • Creating an “exchange” or other government entity to distribute insurance coverage; • Establishing the federal government as a single payer; • Allowing individuals and/or the self-employed to collectively purchase health insurance coverage without any other affiliations; • Restricting the ability of health insurers to offer coverage under the “association group” model; • Guarantee issue requirements and restricting the ability of health insurers to assess the risk of applicant’s based on health status; • Mandating coverage of certain conditions or specified procedures, drugs and devices; • Standardizing individual health insurance so as to restrict the ability of health insurers to significantly vary coverage, including the health care services considered to be “covered” or “excluded,” deductible and cost-sharing levels and coverage limits; 19 Table of Contents • Restricting the ability of health insurers to rescind coverage based on applicant’s misrepresentations or omissions; and • Extending malpractice and other liability exposure for decisions made by health insurers. We expect the trend of increased legislative activity concerning health care reform to continue and cannot predict with certainty the effect that such proposals, if adopted, could have on our health insurance business and operations. Changes in health care policy could significantly affect our business. Many of the proposals, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We must comply with restrictions on customer privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure compliance by our business associates with HIPAA. The use, disclosure and secure handling of individually identifiable health information by our business is subject to federal regulations, including the privacy provisions of the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the privacy and security regulations promulgated under HIPAA. See Item 1. Business — “Regulatory and Legislative Matters” for additional information. The HIPAA regulations establish significant criminal penalties and civil sanctions for non-compliance. Our privacy and security practices are also subject to various state laws and regulations. The HIPAA regulations require, among other things, that we enter into specific written agreements with business associates to whom individually identifiable health information is disclosed. Although our contracts with business associates provide for appropriate protections of such information, we may have limited control over the actions and practices of our business associates. Compliance with HIPAA and other state and federal privacy and security regulations have required us to implement changes in our programs and systems to maintain compliance and may in the future result in significant expenditures due to necessary systems changes, the development of new administrative processes and the effects of potential noncompliance by our business associates. Failure to comply with the terms of the regulatory settlement agreement arising out of the multi-state market conduct examination of our principal insurance subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In March 2005, we received notification that the Market Analysis Working Group of the NAIC had chosen the states of Washington and Alaska to lead a multi-state market conduct examination of our principal insurance subsidiaries, MEGA, Mid-West and Chesapeake (the “Insurance Subsidiaries”). On May 29, 2008, the Insurance Subsidiaries entered into a regulatory settlement agreement (“RSA”) with the states of Washington and Alaska, as lead regulators, and three other “monitoring” states. Thereafter, all states (other than Massachusetts and Delaware) and the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and Guam signed the RSA, which became effective on August 15, 2008. In connection with the RSA, the Insurance Subsidiaries paid a penalty of $20 million. The RSA includes standards for performance measurement for 13 different required actions which must be implemented on or before December 31, 2009. The Insurance Subsidiaries timely filed semi-annual reports on November 14, 2008 and February 13, 2009. On or before July 1, 2010, the monitoring states will initiate a re-examination to assess the standard for performance measurement. If the re-examination is unfavorable, the Insurance Subsidiaries are subject to additional penalties of up to $10 million. See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to various other pending market conduct and other regulatory examinations, inquiries or proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. State insurance regulatory agencies have authority to levy significant fines and penalties and require remedial action resulting from findings made during the course of such matters. Market conduct or other regulatory examinations, inquiries or proceedings could result in, among other things, changes in business practices that require the Company to incur substantial costs. Such results, singly or in combination, could injure our reputation, cause negative publicity, adversely affect our debt and financial strength ratings, place us at a competitive disadvantage in marketing or administering our products or impair our ability to sell or retain insurance policies, thereby adversely affecting our business, and potentially materially adversely affecting the results of operations in a period, depending on the results of operations for the particular period. Determination by regulatory authorities that we have engaged in improper conduct could also adversely affect our defense of various lawsuits. 20 Table of Contents Changes in our relationship with membership associations that make available to their members our health insurance products and/or changes in the laws and regulations governing so-called “association group” insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As is the case with many of our competitors in the self-employed market, a substantial portion of our health insurance products are issued to members of various independent membership associations that act as the master policyholder for such products. The two principal membership associations in the self-employed market that make available to their members our health insurance products are the National Association for the Self-Employed and the Alliance for Affordable Services. The associations provide their members access to a number of benefits and products, including health insurance underwritten by us. Subject to applicable state law, individuals generally may not obtain insurance under an association’s master policy unless they are also members of the association. The agreements with these associations requiring the associations to continue as the master policyholder for our policies and to make our products available to their respective members are terminable by us or the association upon not less than one year’s advance notice to the other party. A termination of our agreements with these associations would be fundamentally disruptive to our marketing efforts. We would be unable to offer products through the association master policy and, in certain states, could be required to seek approval of new policy forms and premium rates before resuming marketing efforts. In the event of a termination, the associations could market alternative health insurance products to their association members. The independent agents within our dedicated agency field force also act as field service representatives (FSRs) for the associations. In this capacity, the FSRs enroll new association members and provide membership retention services. For such services, we and the FSRs receive compensation. One of our subsidiaries, HealthMarkets Lead Marketing Group, Inc., serves as our direct marketing group and generates new membership sales prospect leads for use by the FSRs. HealthMarkets Lead Marketing Group also provides video and print services to the associations. In addition to health insurance premiums derived from the sale of health insurance, we receive fee income from the associations, including fees associated with enrollment and member retention services, fees for association membership marketing and administrative services and fees for certain association member benefits. While we believe that we are providing association group coverage in full compliance with applicable law, changes in our relationship with the membership associations and/or changes in the laws and regulations governing so-called “association group” insurance, particularly changes that would subject the issuance of policies to prior premium rate approval and/or require the issuance of policies on a “guaranteed issue” basis, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Negative publicity regarding our business practices and about the health insurance industry in general may harm our business and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The health and life insurance industry and related products and services we provide attracts negative publicity from consumer advocate groups and the media. Negative publicity regarding the industry generally or our Company in particular may result in increased regulation and legislative scrutiny as well as increased litigation, which may further increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by impeding our ability to market our products and services, requiring us to change our products or services or increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate. Our failure to secure and enhance cost-effective healthcare provider network contracts may result in a loss of insureds and/or higher medical costs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations and competitive position could be adversely affected by our inability to enter into or maintain satisfactory relationships with networks of hospitals, physicians, dentists, pharmacies and other healthcare providers. The failure to secure cost-effective healthcare provider network contracts, the inability to maintain “rental” access to health care provider networks, or the refusal of health care providers to honor the discounts obtained through such networks, may result in a loss of insureds or higher medical costs. In addition, the inability to 21 Table of Contents contract with provider networks, the inability to terminate contracts with existing provider networks and enter into arrangements with new provider networks to serve the same market, and/or the inability of providers to provide adequate care, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. HealthMarkets’ inability to obtain funds from its insurance subsidiaries may cause it to experience reduced cash flow, which could affect the Company’s ability to pay its obligations to creditors as they become due. We are a holding company, and our principal assets are our investments in our separate operating subsidiaries, including our regulated insurance subsidiaries. Our ability to fund our cash requirements is largely dependent upon our ability to access cash from our subsidiaries. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulations that limit their ability to transfer funds to us. We have a significant amount of debt outstanding that contains restrictive covenants. If we are unable to obtain funds from our insurance subsidiaries, we will experience reduced cash flow, which could affect our ability to pay our obligations to creditors as they become due. Current unfavorable economic conditions could adversely affect our business. General economic, financial market and political conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the global mortgage market, a declining global real estate market, and the loss of consumer confidence and a reduction in consumer spending have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These market conditions expose us to a number of risks, including risks associated with the potential financial instability of our customers. If our customer base experiences cash flow problems and other financial difficulties, it could, in turn, adversely impact the sale of our insurance products. For example, our customers may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products, or may choose to reduce the level of coverage purchased from us. In addition, if our customers experience financial issues, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us. Further, our customers or potential customers may force us to compete more vigorously on factors such as price and service to retain or obtain their business. A significant decline in the sale of our products and the inability of current and/or potential customers to pay their premiums as a result of unfavorable economic conditions may adversely affect our business, including our revenues, profitability and cash flow. In addition, general inflationary pressures may affect the costs of health care, increasing the costs of paying claims. In addition, we are subject to extensive laws and regulations that are administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities, including, but not limited to, state insurance regulators, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and state attorneys general. In light of the difficult economic conditions, some of these authorities are considering or may in the future consider enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future crises or to otherwise assure the stability of institutions under their supervision. These authorities may also seek to exercise their supervisory or enforcement authority in new or more robust ways. All of these possibilities, if they occurred, could affect the way we conduct our business and manage our capital, either of which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The value of our investments is influenced by varying economic and market conditions and a decrease in value could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and liquidity. Our investment portfolio is comprised primarily of investments classified as securities available for sale. The fair value of our available for sale securities was $805.2 million and represented approximately 42% of our total consolidated assets at December 31, 2008. These investments are carried at fair value, and the unrealized gains or losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of shareholders’ equity, unless the decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary. For our available for sale investments, if a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, the security is deemed to be other than temporarily impaired and it is written down to fair value and the loss is recorded as an expense in earnings. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we review our investment securities to determine if declines in fair value below cost are other than temporary. This review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. We conduct this review on a quarterly basis (or more frequently if certain indicators arise), using both quantitative and qualitative factors, to 22 Table of Contents determine whether a decline in value is other than temporary. In its review, management considers the following indicators of impairment: fair value significantly below cost; decline in fair value attributable to specific adverse conditions affecting a particular investment; decline in fair value attributable to specific conditions, such as conditions in an industry or in a geographic area; decline in fair value for an extended period of time; downgrades by rating agencies from investment grade to non-investment grade; financial condition deterioration of the issuer and situations where dividends have been reduced or eliminated or scheduled interest payments have not been made. The current economic environment and recent volatility of the securities markets increase the difficulty of assessing investment impairment and the same influences tend to increase the risk of potential impairment of these assets. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded $26.0 million of charges for other than temporary impairment of securities. Given the current volatile market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and material other than temporary impairments may result in realized losses in future periods which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Adverse securities and credit market conditions could have a material adverse affect on our liquidity or our ability to obtain credit on acceptable terms. The securities and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on the availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. We need liquidity to make payments for benefits, claims and commissions, service the Company’s debt obligations and pay operating expenses. Our primary sources of cash on a consolidated basis have been premium revenue from policies issued, investment income, and fees and other income. In the event we need access to additional capital to pay our operating expenses, make payments on our indebtedness, pay capital expenditures or fund acquisitions, our ability to obtain such capital may be limited and the cost of any such capital may be significant. Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. If a combination of these factors were to occur, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms. Failure of our insurance subsidiaries to maintain their current insurance ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our principal insurance subsidiaries are currently rated by A.M. Best, Fitch and S&P and experienced downgrades in financial strength ratings during 2008. These ratings are subject to periodic review by the ratings agencies and there can be no assurances that we will be able to maintain these current ratings. A downward adjustment in rating by A.M. Best, Fitch and/or S&P of our insurance subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our ratings are lowered from their current levels, our competitive position could be materially adversely affected and it could be more difficult for us to market our products. Rating agencies may take action to lower our ratings in the future due to, among other things, perceived concerns about our liquidity or solvency, the competitive environment in the insurance industry, which may adversely affect our revenues, the inherent uncertainty in determining reserves for future claims, which may cause us to increase our reserves for claims, the outcome of pending litigation and regulatory investigations, which may adversely affect our financial position and reputation and possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies. In addition, rating agencies have come under recent scrutiny over their ratings practices and could, as a result, become more conservative in their methodology and criteria, which could adversely affect our ratings. Finally, rating agencies or regulators could increase capital requirements for the Company or its subsidiaries which in turn, could negatively affect our financial position as well. We may not have enough statutory capital and surplus to continue to write business. Our continued ability to write business is dependent on maintaining adequate levels of statutory capital and surplus to support the policies we write. Our new business writing typically results in net losses on a statutory basis 23 Table of Contents during the early years of a policy. The resulting reduction in statutory surplus, or surplus strain, limits our ability to seek new business due to statutory restrictions on premium to surplus ratios and statutory surplus requirements. If we cannot generate sufficient statutory surplus to maintain minimum statutory requirements through increased statutory profitability, reinsurance or other capital generating alternatives, we will be limited in our ability to realize additional premium revenue from new business writing, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or, in the event that our statutory surplus is not sufficient to meet minimum premium to surplus and risk-based capital ratios in any state, we could be prohibited from writing new policies in such state. Our reserves for current and future claims may be inadequate and any increase to such reserves could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We calculate and maintain reserves for current and future claims using assumptions about numerous variables, including our estimate of the probability of a policyholder making a claim, the severity and duration of such claim, the mortality rate of our policyholders, the persistency or renewal of our policies in force and the amount of interest we expect to earn from the investment of premiums. The adequacy of our reserves depends on the accuracy of our assumptions. We cannot assure you that our actual experience will not differ from the assumptions used in the establishment of reserves. Any variance from these assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Litigation or settlements thereof may result in financial losses or harm our reputation and may divert management resources. Current and future litigation with private parties or governmental authorities may result in financial losses, harm our reputation and require the dedication of significant management resources. We are regularly involved in litigation. The litigation naming us as a defendant ordinarily involves our activities as an insurer. In recent years, many insurance companies, including us, have been named as defendants in class actions relating to market conduct or sales practices. For our general claim litigation, we establish reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course. Management expects that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to the consolidated financial condition of the Company. Nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain claim litigation involving punitive damages could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in a period, depending on the results of our operations for the particular period. Given the expense and inherent risks and uncertainties of litigation, we regularly evaluate litigation matters pending against us, including those described in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, to determine if settlement of such matters would be in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. The costs associated with any such settlement could be substantial and, in certain cases, could result in an earnings charge in any particular quarter in which we enter into a settlement agreement. Although we have recorded litigation reserves which represent our best estimate on probable losses, our recorded reserves might prove to be inadequate to cover an adverse result or settlement for extraordinary matters. Therefore, costs associated with the various litigation matters to which we are subject and any earnings charge recorded in connection with a settlement agreement could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in a period, depending on the results of our operations for the particular period. Changes in our relationship with the agents who sell our products resulting from Fair Labor Standards Act litigation could require us to revise our business practices. HealthMarkets is a party to actions filed under the Fair Labor Standards Act (“FLSA”) in which plaintiffs (consisting of former district sales leaders and regional sales leaders in the Cornerstone America independent agent hierarchy) allege that that they were employees within the meaning of the FLSA and are therefore entitled to recover unpaid overtime wages under the terms of the FLSA. In October 2008, the United States Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the trial court’s ruling in favor of plaintiffs on the issue of their status as employees under the 24 Table of Contents FLSA and remanded the case to the trial court for further proceedings. See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As a result of this ruling, the Company is in the process of evaluating various changes in its relationship with agents, including the structure of its sales force and the manner in which we contract, communicate and interact with agents. At present, it is unclear what effect these matters, and the changes under consideration by the Company, may have on the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. We have recently experienced significant turnover in senior management. If we are unable to manage the succession of our key executives, it could adversely affect our business. Over the past year, we have experienced a high turnover in our senior management team. Although we have succession plans in place and have employment arrangements with our key executives, these do not guarantee that the services of these key executives will continue to be available to us. We would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for future turnover of our senior management team. Acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions may adversely affect our business. We continue to evaluate the profitability of our existing businesses and operations. From time to time, we review potential acquisitions and divestitures in light of our core businesses and growth strategies. The success of any such acquisition or divestiture depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable buyers or sellers, negotiate favorable contract terms and, in many cases, obtain governmental approval. For acquisitions, success is also dependent upon efficiently integrating the acquired business into the Company’s existing operations. For divestures, in the event the structure of the transaction results in continuing obligations by the buyer to us or our customers, a buyer’s inability to fulfil these obligations could lead to future financial loss on our part. In addition, any divestiture could result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets. For example, the reinsurance transaction involving our former Life Insurance Division resulted in a pre-tax loss of $21.5 million, of which $13.0 million was recorded as an impairment to the Life Insurance Division’s deferred acquisition costs with the remainder of $8.5 million recorded in “Realized gains (losses)” in the Company’s consolidated statement of income (loss). See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, potential acquisitions or divestitures present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses, assumption of unknown liabilities, indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. A failure of our information systems to provide timely and accurate information could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Information processing is critical to our business, and a failure of our information systems to provide timely and accurate information could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The failure to maintain an effective and efficient information system or disruptions in our information system could cause disruptions in our business operations, including (a) failure to comply with prompt pay laws; (b) loss of existing insureds; (c) difficulty in attracting new insureds; (d) disputes with insureds, providers and agents; (e) regulatory problems; (f) increases in administrative expenses; and (g) other adverse consequences. Natural disasters, could severely damage or interrupt our systems and operations and result in an adverse effect on our business. Natural disasters such as fire, flood, earthquake, tornado, power loss, virus, telecommunications failure, break-in or similar event could severely damage or interrupt our systems and operations, result in loss of data, and/or delay or impair our ability to service our customers. We have in place a disaster recovery plan which is intended to provide us with the ability to maintain our operations in the event of a natural disaster. However, there can be no assurance that such adverse effects will not occur in the event of a disaster. Any such disaster or similar event could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 