Item 1A. Risk Factors The following factors could impact our business and financial prospects: Certain elements of the Health Care Reform Legislation could potentially have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations In March 2010, Health Care Reform Legislation was signed into law and, after being challenged, was substantially upheld by the United States Supreme Court in a decision issued in June 2012. The Health Care Reform Legislation has resulted in broad-based material changes to the United States health care system, has had a significant impact on our business, and is expected to continue to impact our business in the future. While not all-inclusive, material provisions of the Health Care Reform Legislation include the following: • Establishment of a minimum medical loss ratio of 80% for the individual and small group markets beginning in 2011, with rebates to customers required for medical loss ratio amounts under the minimum; • Expansion of dependent coverage to include adult children up to age 26; • Elimination of most annual and all lifetime caps on benefits; • Elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions for certain dependents; • Requirements that limit the ability of health insurance providers to vary premium based on assessment of underlying risk; • Payment of first dollar preventive care benefits for non-grandfathered business; • Establishment of specific benefit design requirements, rating and pricing limits and guaranteed issue requirements; • Obligation to add coverage for mandated “essential health benefits” to non-grandfathered plans as of January 1, 2014; • Creation of public health insurance exchanges (currently expected to be effective in 2014, subject to implementation at the state or federal level) with standardized plans available to the individual and small group markets. The availability of federal subsidies for qualified individuals may make plans offered through such public exchanges an attractive option for our existing customers and cause them to cancel their coverage with us; • Prohibitions on most policy rescissions; • Significant federal and possibly state annual taxes and/or assessments on health insurance providers which may not be deductible for income tax purposes; and • Limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code for health insurance providers. With respect to the minimum loss ratio requirements that became effective in 2011, the mandated minimum loss ratio of 80% for the individual and small group markets has adversely affected the revenues of our insurance subsidiaries and our business generally and has required us to issue rebates to customers. Historically, the Company has experienced significantly lower medical loss ratios and the Company continues to evaluate whether its insurance subsidiaries can operate profitably at an 80% minimum medical loss ratio. As a result of these requirements, our insurance subsidiaries have reduced the level of commissions paid to the agents who distribute their health benefit plans. The 80% minimum medical loss ratio for the individual market is subject to adjustment by the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”), on a state-by-state basis, if HHS determines that the requirement is disruptive to the market. For 2012, HHS approved a lower medical loss ratio standard in four states: Georgia, Iowa, Maine and New Hampshire. The minimum medical loss ratio requirement could, at an appropriate time in the future, compel us to non-renew coverage of our existing individual health customers in one or more states subject to applicable state and federal discontinuation or withdrawal requirements. 17 Table of Contents The mandated medical loss ratio requirements and health care reform more generally also have adversely affected the level of base and override commissions that Insphere receives from the Company’s insurance subsidiaries and third party insurance carriers. In order to comply with the 80% minimum medical loss ratio requirement, many of these carriers, including the Company’s insurance subsidiaries, have reduced commissions and overrides. Compensation levels in 2011 and 2012 were significantly lower than 2010 levels. As a result of reductions, Insphere has lowered the level of commissions paid to its agents for the sale of products underwritten by these carriers. The implementation of additional aspects of the Health Care Reform Legislation, including but not limited to the introduction of health insurance exchanges (currently expected to be effective in 2014), may result in further reductions in commission and other compensation levels paid to producers, including Insphere. To the extent required by the Health Care Reform Legislation, the Company has made the adjustments to its in-force block of business issued prior to March 24, 2010, including but not limited to removal of lifetime caps on benefits, extension of dependent coverage through age 26, meeting new HHS reporting requirements and adopting limitations on most policy rescissions. These changes generally became effective on January 1, 2011 (for most of our plans — the effective date of the new plan year), although certain states required an earlier effective date. In addition to the changes discussed above, plans issued on or after March 24, 2010 are subject to more extensive benefit changes, including but not limited to first dollar preventive care benefits and no annual limits on essential health benefits covered by the policies. The Company made all state form and rate filings necessary to include these new requirements and, effective in September 2011, made required rate and form changes for new policies marketed after that date. Certain provisions of the Health Care Reform Legislation have already become effective, and the Company has dedicated material resources, made material changes to its business and incurred material expenses (including, but not limited to, additional claims expenses) as a result. Other provisions become effective at various dates over the next several years. Due to the complexity of this legislation, gradual implementation and pending status of certain guidance and regulations, the full impact of Health Care Reform Legislation on our business is not yet fully known. The Company’s review of these requirements, and their potential impact on the Company’s business, is ongoing. In addition, a number of state legislatures have enacted or are contemplating significant health insurance reforms or similar legislation, either in response to the Health Care Reform Legislation or independently (to the extent not addressed by federal legislation). These reforms could further increase our costs, require us to revise the way in which we conduct business, result in the elimination of certain products or business lines (including, potentially, non-renewal of our existing non-grandfathered and/or grandfathered health benefit plan business in one or more states subject to applicable state and federal discontinuation or withdrawal requirements), impose additional state-level fees or taxes, lead to lower revenues and expose us to an increased risk of liability. Any delay or failure to conform our business to the requirements of the Health Care Reform Legislation and state health insurance reforms could disrupt our operations, lead to regulatory issues, damage our relationship with existing customers and our reputation generally, adversely affect our ability to attract new customers and result in other adverse consequences. Depending on the outcome of certain potential developments, certain elements of the Health Care Reform Legislation and/or state health care reform legislation could, in the future, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, including but not limited to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets. The Company’s review of the requirements of the Health Care Reform Legislation described above, and its potential impact on the Company’s health insurance product offerings, is ongoing. The Health Care Reform Legislation could increase our cost structure and impede our ability to obtain premium rate increases necessary to offset these costs. Several aspects of the Health Care Reform Legislation are expected to increase our costs, including but not limited to the elimination of most annual and all lifetime caps on the dollar value of benefits, the elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions and the obligation to add coverage for mandated “essential health benefits” to non-grandfathered plans. Premium increases will be necessary to mitigate the impact these and other provisions 18 Table of Contents of the Health Care Reform Legislation will have on our cost structure. Premium increases are generally subject to the approval of state insurance departments. In addition, HHS rules establish a federal premium rate review process for annual premium rate increases (generally, of 10% or more), which could make it more difficult to obtain approval of premium rate increases. The inability of our insurance companies to increase premiums rates to offset increases in their cost structure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in government regulation could increase the costs of compliance or cause us to discontinue marketing our products, or otherwise cease doing business, in certain states. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry. In addition to the Health Care Reform Legislation discussed above, to the extent not addressed by federal legislation, various states have, from time to time, proposed and/or enacted changes to the health care system that could affect the relationship between health insurers and their customers (see Item 1. Business — “Regulatory and Legislative Matters” for additional information). To the extent not already addressed in connection with the Health Care Reform Legislation, some of the more significant legislative and regulatory developments that could potentially affect our business include requiring employers to provide health insurance to employees; establishing a minimum level of coverage required to satisfy health insurance mandates; establishing minimum loss ratios that require insurers to pay a minimum amount of claim payments as a percentage of premiums received; mandating coverage of certain conditions or specified procedures, drugs and devices; standardizing individual health insurance so as to restrict the ability of health insurers to significantly vary coverage, including the health care services considered to be “covered” or “excluded,” deductible and cost-sharing levels and coverage limits; and extending malpractice and other liability exposure for decisions made by health insurers We expect the trend of increased legislative activity to continue and cannot predict with certainty the effect that such proposals, if adopted, could have on our business. Certain of the proposals, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We evaluate regulatory and legislative developments on an ongoing basis. If we determine that the legislative or regulatory environment in a particular state prevents us from doing business in the state on a profitable basis, we may determine that it is in the Company’s best interest to withdraw from certain lines of business or cease doing business in that state (subject to applicable state and federal discontinuation or withdrawal requirements). Failure to comply with extensive state and federal regulations could subject us to fines, penalties and suspensions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision (see Item 1. Business — “Regulatory and Legislative Matters” for additional information). Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than stockholders and other investors. This regulation, generally administered by a department of insurance in each state in which we do business, relates to, among other things, licensing of insurers and their agents; sales and marketing practices; training and oversight of agents; handling of consumer complaints and grievances; approval of policy forms and premium rates; standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements, which are a measure developed by the NAIC and used by state insurance regulators to identify insurance companies that potentially are inadequately capitalized; restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; restrictions on transactions between insurance companies and their affiliates; restrictions on the size of risks insurable under a single policy; requiring deposits for the benefit of policyholders; requiring certain methods of accounting; prescribing the form and content of records of financial condition required to be filed; and requiring reserves for losses and other purposes. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies through, among other things, financial and market conduct examinations, and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to the financial condition of insurance companies, holding company issues and other matters. Regulatory agencies have imposed substantial fines against us in the past, and may impose substantial 19 Table of Contents fines against us in the future if they determine that we have not complied with applicable laws and regulations (see Note 16 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). There is also substantial federal regulation of our business. Laws and regulations adopted by the federal government, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, HIPAA, the USA PATRIOT Act and the CAN SPAM Act of 2003 and Do Not Call regulations, establish administrative and compliance requirements applicable to the Company. Our business depends on compliance with applicable laws and regulations and our ability to maintain valid licenses and approvals for our operations. Regulatory authorities have broad discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals. Regulatory authorities may deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. In some instances, we follow practices based on our interpretations of regulations, or those that we believe to be generally followed by the industry, which may be different from the requirements or interpretations of regulatory authorities. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals and do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us which, depending on the nature of the penalty, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our failure to comply with new or existing government regulation could subject us to significant fines and penalties. Our efforts to measure, monitor and adjust our business practices to comply with current laws are ongoing. Failure to comply with enacted regulations could result in significant fines, penalties or the loss of one or more of our licenses. Current or future state and federal regulations could impede our ability to obtain effective leads or increase the cost of leads and adversely affect our business We utilize, either directly or through third party vendors, e-mails and telephone calls to identify prospective sales leads for use by Insphere and its agents. Lead generation activities are subject to state and federal regulations, including, but not limited to, the federal CAN SPAM Act of 2003 (which establishes national standards for sending bulk, unsolicited commercial e-mail), the federal “Do Not Call” regulations and state regulations regarding telemarketing (which require companies including insurers and insurance agencies to develop their own “do not call” lists and reference state and federal “do not call” registries before making calls to market insurance products, and prohibit unsolicited facsimiles) (see Item 1. Business — “Regulatory and Legislative Matters” for additional information). Failure to comply could result in enforcement actions by state attorneys general, regulatory fines and penalties and civil lawsuits. We believe that the ability of Insphere and its agents to obtain effective and cost efficient “qualified” sales leads plays a significant role in the generation of new business and efforts to recruit and retain effective agents. There is significant competition for such leads and certain aspects of the Health Care Reform Legislation, including but not limited to the introduction of public health insurance exchanges (currently expected to be effective in 2014) may make it more difficult for the Insphere to obtain such leads in the future or may make such leads significantly more expensive. To the extent that laws currently in effect, or passed in the future, make it more difficult or costly to obtain effective and cost efficient qualified leads, or eliminate our ability to purchase or generate such leads, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We must comply with restrictions on customer privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure compliance by our business associates with HIPAA. The use, disclosure and secure handling of individually identifiable health information by our business is subject to state and federal law and regulations, including the privacy provisions of the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the privacy and security regulations promulgated under HIPAA (See Item 1. Business — “Regulatory and Legislative Matters” for additional information). The HIPAA regulations establish significant criminal penalties and civil sanctions for non-compliance. The HIPAA regulations require, among other things, that we enter into specific written agreements with business associates to whom individually identifiable health information is disclosed. Although our contracts with business associates provide for appropriate protections of such information, we may have limited control over the actions and practices of our business associates. The 20 Table of Contents Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH Act”). enacted as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”), contains a number of provisions that significantly expand the reach of HIPAA, including imposition of varying civil monetary penalties, creation of a private cause of action for HIPAA violations, extension of HIPAA’s security provisions to business associates and creation of new security breach notification requirements. In January 2013, final HHS regulations implementing the ARRA amendments to HIPAA impose additional obligations and further restrict our ability to collect, disclose and use individually identifiable health information. Additionally, as part of the Administrative Simplification provisions of the Health Care Reform Legislation, health plans are required to provide eligibility and health claim status for HIPAA transactions in 2013 and to certify compliance with these requirements by December 31, 2013. The Company is currently evaluating its ability to comply with such certification. Compliance with HIPAA, the HITECH Act and other state and federal privacy and security regulations have required us to implement changes in our programs and systems to maintain compliance and may in the future result in significant expenditures due to necessary systems changes, the development of new administrative processes and the effects of potential noncompliance by our business associates. In addition to obligations on the part of the Company’s insurance subsidiaries, Insphere serves as a business associate of the non-affiliated insurance companies with which it does business. Insphere’s relationship with these non-affiliated insurance companies has added complexity to the Company’s privacy compliance obligations. Failure to comply could result in regulatory fines and civil lawsuits. Knowing and intentional violations of these rules may also result in federal criminal penalties. The outcome of comprehensive or targeted market conduct examinations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We recently concluded a multi-state market conduct examination of our principal insurance subsidiaries, MEGA, Mid-West and Chesapeake (the “Insurance Companies”). See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Insurance Companies have periodically been the subject of other market conduct examinations conducted by state insurance departments. As reported in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, such examinations have included the market conduct examination of MEGA, Mid-West and Chesapeake by the Massachusetts Division of Insurance, resulting in a 2006 regulatory settlement agreement, and subsequent re-examination of certain key provisions of the regulatory settlement agreement commencing in January 2009, which was settled on August 26, 2009. The Insurance Companies are subject to various other pending market conduct and other regulatory examinations, inquiries or proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. State insurance regulatory agencies have authority to levy significant fines and penalties and require remedial action resulting from findings made during the course of such matters. Market conduct or other regulatory examinations, inquiries or proceedings could result in, among other things, changes in business practices that require the Company to incur substantial costs. Such results, singly or in combination, could injure our reputation, cause negative publicity, adversely affect our debt and financial strength ratings, place us at a competitive disadvantage in marketing or administering our products or impair our ability to sell or retain insurance policies, and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. We may lose business to competitors We compete, and will continue to compete, for customers with many other companies, including insurance companies, insurance agencies and other financial services companies. Current or potential competitors may offer a broader array of products than we do, have a greater diversity of distribution resources, have better brand recognition, have more competitive pricing and have lower cost structures. Some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. With respect to our Commercial Health division, other insurers may have higher financial strength or claims paying ratings, or may be able to obtain more favorable financial arrangements from healthcare providers that are not available to us, which may make their health benefit plan offerings more attractive than our own. Other companies enter and exit the markets in which we operate, thereby increasing competition at times when there are new entrants. For example, we currently believe that Chesapeake offers one of the largest portfolios of individual supplemental products in the market. However, as a result of the 21 Table of Contents Health Care Reform Legislation, we expect the supplemental business to become a greater area of focus for other insurance carriers. Competitors in the supplemental market may include insurance carriers who have substantially greater revenues, capital resources or product and geographic market coverage. Entry into the supplemental market, or expansion of existing supplemental business, by such competitors could adversely affect our ability to successfully market supplemental products on a competitive basis and decrease revenues arising from the sale of supplemental products. Our Commercial Health Division and Insphere may also lose business as a result of the introduction of public health insurance exchanges (currently expected to be effective in 2014). With respect to our Commercial Health Division, we may lose business to competitors who are able to offer their products through an exchange. With respect to Insphere, the availability of public health insurance exchanges may render a customer’s need for an independent insurance agent less necessary. If we are unable to appropriately address these competitive challenges, our business could be adversely affected. Failure to recruit and retain agents could prevent us from competing successfully and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We compete not only for the business of customers, but also for agents and distribution relationships with other distributors and insurance companies. We distribute our products as well as the products of non-affiliated insurance companies through independent agents contracted with Insphere as well as independent third party producers outside the Insphere agency sales force. Insphere’s business is highly competitive and there are many insurance agencies, brokers and intermediaries who actively compete with us. We also compete with insurance companies that sell their products directly to customers and do not use or pay commissions to third-party agents or brokers. In addition, the Internet continues to be a source for direct placement of business and creates competition for Insphere. We compete for productive agents with other distributors based on a number of factors, including compensation structure, level of training and support services and product offerings. It may be difficult to successfully compete for agents with companies that have greater revenues, capital resources, product and geographic market coverage or name recognition than ours. The Health Care Reform Legislation may adversely affect Insphere’s ability to recruit and retain agents. As a result of certain changes arising from this legislation, including the 80% minimum medical loss ratio requirement, many of the carriers with which Insphere does business, including the Company’s insurance subsidiaries, have reduced commissions and overrides. Compensation levels in 2011 and 2012 were significantly lower than 2010 levels, and we anticipate that the implementation of additional aspects of the Health Care Reform Legislation may result in further reductions. (see Item 1. Business — “Regulatory and Legislative Matters” for additional information). The impact of these adjustments has been significant and, as a result, Insphere has lowered the level of commissions paid to its agents for the sale of products underwritten by these carriers. This could potentially make it more difficult for Insphere to recruit agents and/or retain agents who are unable to earn sufficient income at the reduced commission levels. Insphere’s business model requires near term growth in the number of productive selling agents within its sales force and the retention of these agents. Any inability by Insphere to recruit, retain and expand the number of productive insurance agents within its sales force could adversely affect Insphere’s business prospects and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in our relationship with membership associations, or changes in association product benefits, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Historically, a substantial portion of the products offered by our insurance subsidiaries were issued to members of independent membership associations that act as the master policyholder for such products. The associations provide their members with access to a number of benefits and products, including health insurance underwritten by the HealthMarkets insurance subsidiaries. Subject to applicable state law, individuals generally may not obtain insurance under an association’s master policy unless they are also members of the association. In the limited number of states where the Company’s insurance subsidiaries currently continue to offer its health benefit plans, 22 Table of Contents these plans are now offered to the individual market directly and not through the associations. In addition, Insphere maintains agreements with independent membership associations - AAS and AFS - pursuant to which Insphere’s agents act as field service representatives for the associations. These agreements provide Insphere with the right (generally on an exclusive basis) to distribute association products for AAS and AFS. In this capacity, Insphere’s agents enroll new association members and provide membership retention services. Insphere receives compensation from the associations, including fees associated with enrollment, member retention services, marketing and administrative services. An adverse change in our relationship with these associations, including but not limited to a termination of our agreements with these associations, could be fundamentally disruptive to our in-force block of health benefit plan business issued to members of independent membership associations and could result in the termination or non-renewal of some or all of this business. Such a change could also adversely affect Insphere’s efforts to market association products. Changes in the nature of the association products offered, including benefits, could also adversely affect Insphere’s business. Negative publicity regarding our business practices and about the health insurance industry in general may harm our business and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The health and life insurance industry and related products and services we provide attracts negative publicity from consumer advocate groups and the media. Negative publicity regarding the industry generally or our Company in particular may result in increased regulation and legislative scrutiny as well as increased litigation, which may further increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by impeding our ability to market our products and services, requiring us to change our products or services or increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate. Certain of the matters referred to in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for example the litigation filed by the City Attorney for Los Angeles on behalf of the State of California, have generated adverse publicity for the Company. Matters of this nature in the future could result in the loss of reputation and business for the Company and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to secure and enhance cost-effective healthcare provider network contracts may result in a loss of insureds and/or higher medical costs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations and competitive position could be adversely affected by our inability to enter into or maintain satisfactory relationships with networks of hospitals, physicians, dentists, pharmacies and other healthcare providers. The failure to secure cost-effective healthcare provider network contracts, the inability to maintain “rental” access to health care provider networks, or the refusal of health care providers to honor the discounts obtained through such networks, may result in a loss of insureds or higher medical costs. In addition, the inability to contract with provider networks, the inability to terminate contracts with existing provider networks and enter into arrangements with new provider networks to serve the same market, and/or the inability of providers to provide adequate care, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. HealthMarkets’ inability to obtain funds from its insurance subsidiaries may cause it to experience reduced cash flow, which could affect the Company’s ability to pay its obligations to creditors as they become due. We are a holding company, and our principal assets are investments in separate operating subsidiaries, including our regulated insurance subsidiaries. Our ability to fund our cash requirements is largely dependent upon our ability to access cash from our subsidiaries through the payment of dividends. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulations that limit their ability to transfer funds to us. If we are unable to obtain funds from our insurance subsidiaries, we will experience reduced cash flow, which could affect our ability to pay our obligations to creditors as they become due. 23 Table of Contents Failure to accommodate redemption requests by agents participating in the HealthMarkets, Inc. InVest Stock Ownership Plan could result in dissatisfaction and attrition among our contracted independent agents. Historically, we have generally accommodated requests to purchase Class A-2 shares upon the withdrawal of a participant from the HealthMarkets, Inc. InVest Stock Ownership Plan, but we are under no obligation to do so. Any repurchase of shares requires the Company’s consent, which may be withheld in our sole discretion. The ability to accommodate redemption requests is subject to a variety of factors, including the number of requests received and the Company’s capital position. The volume of redemption requests generally has been low. If the number of redemption requests increases as a result of an event that is perceived by agents to have a negative effect on the Company’s financial condition or operations (e.g. adverse publicity regarding the health insurance industry in general or our business specifically), the number of redemption requests could increase and the Company may elect not to accommodate such requests, which could result in dissatisfaction and substantial attrition among the agents within the Insphere distribution force as well as litigation risk. Unfavorable economic conditions could adversely affect our business. General economic, financial market and political conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the global mortgage market, a declining global real estate market, high unemployment, and the loss of consumer confidence and a reduction in consumer spending have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These market conditions expose us to a number of risks, including risks associated with the potential financial instability of our customers. If our customer base experiences cash flow problems and other financial difficulties, it could, in turn, adversely impact the sale of the Company’s insurance products and Insphere’s distribution of third party products. For example, customers may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase products, or may choose to reduce their level of coverage. In addition, if our customers experience financial difficulties, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, premiums owed for insurance products. Further, our customers or potential customers may force us to compete more vigorously on factors such as price and service to retain or obtain their business. A significant decline in the sale of our products and the inability of current and/or potential customers to pay their premiums as a result of unfavorable economic conditions may adversely affect our business, including our revenues, profitability and cash flow. In addition, general inflationary pressures may affect the costs of health care, increasing the costs of paying claims. In addition, we are subject to extensive laws and regulations that are administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities, including, but not limited to, state insurance regulators, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and state attorneys general. In light of the difficult economic conditions, some of these authorities have adopted, or are considering the adoption of enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future crises or to otherwise assure the stability of institutions under their supervision. These authorities may also seek to exercise their supervisory or enforcement authority in new or more robust ways. All of these possibilities, if they occurred, could affect the way we conduct our business and manage our capital, either of which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The value of our investments is influenced by varying economic and market conditions and a decrease in value could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and liquidity. Our investment portfolio is comprised of short term investments and investments classified as securities available for sale. Available for sale securities are carried at fair value, and the unrealized gains or losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of shareholders’ equity, unless the decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary. For our available for sale investments, if a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, the security is deemed to be other than temporarily impaired (“OTTI”) and it is written down to fair value. OTTI losses attributed to credit loss are recorded in earnings while OTTI losses attributed to other factors are recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive income 24 Table of Contents (loss)” and have no effect on earnings. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we review our investment securities to determine if declines in fair value below cost are other than temporary. This review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. We conduct this review on a quarterly basis (or more frequently if certain indicators arise), using both quantitative and qualitative factors, to determine whether a decline in value is other than temporary. In its review, management considers the following indicators of impairment: fair value significantly below cost; decline in fair value attributable to specific adverse conditions affecting a particular investment; decline in fair value attributable to specific conditions, such as conditions in an industry or in a geographic area; decline in fair value for an extended period of time; downgrades by rating agencies from investment grade to non-investment grade; financial condition deterioration of the issuer and situations where dividends have been reduced or eliminated or scheduled interest payments have not been made. The economic environment and potential volatility of the securities markets increase the difficulty of assessing investment impairment and the same influences tend to increase the risk of potential impairment of these assets. Given the potential for volatile market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is continuing risk that material declines in fair value may occur and material other than temporary impairments may result in realized losses in future periods which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Adverse securities and credit market conditions could have a material adverse affect on our liquidity or our ability to obtain credit on acceptable terms. The securities and credit markets from time to time have experienced extreme volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on the availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. We need liquidity to make payments for benefits, claims and commissions and pay operating expenses. Our primary sources of cash on a consolidated basis have been premium revenue from policies issued, investment income, third-party commission revenue, and fees and other income. In the event we need access to additional capital to pay our operating expenses, pay capital expenditures or fund acquisitions, our ability to obtain such capital may be limited and the cost of any such capital may be significant. Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. If a combination of these factors were to occur, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms. Failure of our insurance subsidiaries to maintain their current insurance ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our principal insurance subsidiaries are currently rated by A.M. Best. These ratings are subject to periodic review by the ratings agencies and there can be no assurances that we will be able to maintain these current ratings. A downward adjustment in rating by A.M. Best of our insurance subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our ratings are lowered from their current levels, our competitive position could be materially adversely affected and it could be more difficult for us to market our products. Rating agencies may take action to lower our ratings in the future due to, among other things, perceived concerns about our liquidity or solvency, the competitive environment in the insurance industry, which may adversely affect our revenues, the inherent uncertainty in determining reserves for future claims, which may cause us to increase our reserves for claims, the outcome of pending litigation and regulatory investigations, which may adversely affect our financial position and reputation and possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies. In addition, rating agencies have come under recent scrutiny over their ratings practices and could, as a result, become more conservative in their methodology and criteria, which could adversely affect our ratings. Finally, rating agencies or regulators could increase capital requirements for the Company or its subsidiaries which in turn, could negatively affect our financial position. 25 Table of Contents We may not have enough statutory capital and surplus to continue to write business. Our continued ability to write business is dependent on maintaining adequate levels of statutory capital and surplus to support the policies we write. Our new business writing typically results in net losses on a statutory basis during the early years of a policy. The resulting reduction in statutory surplus, or surplus strain, limits our ability to seek new business due to statutory restrictions on premium to surplus ratios and statutory surplus requirements. New business opportunities may also require increased levels of statutory capital and surplus. If we cannot generate sufficient statutory surplus to maintain minimum statutory requirements through increased statutory profitability, reinsurance or other capital generating alternatives, we will be limited in our ability to realize additional premium revenue from new business writing, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or, in the event that our statutory surplus is not sufficient to meet minimum premium to surplus and risk-based capital ratios in any state, we could be prohibited from writing new policies in such state. Failure to accurately estimate medical claims and healthcare costs may have a significant impact on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to accurately estimate medical claims and control healthcare costs, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We estimate the cost of future medical claims and other expenses using actuarial methods based upon historical data, medical inflation, product mix, seasonality, utilization of healthcare services and other relevant factors. We establish premiums based on these methods. The premiums we charge our customers generally are fixed for the applicable contract period, and costs we incur in excess of our medical claim projections generally are therefore not recovered. Our reserves for current and future claims may be inadequate and any increase to such reserves could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We calculate and maintain reserves for current and future claims using assumptions about numerous variables, including our estimate of the probability of a policyholder making a claim, the severity and duration of such claim, the mortality rate of our policyholders, the persistency or renewal of our policies in-force and the amount of interest we expect to earn from the investment of premiums. The adequacy of our reserves depends on the accuracy of our assumptions. The Company’s estimates with respect to claims liability and related benefit expenses are subject to an extensive degree of judgment and we cannot be certain that our actual experience will not differ from the assumptions used in the establishment of reserves. Any variance from these assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Litigation or settlements thereof may result in financial losses or harm our reputation and may divert management resources. Current and future litigation with private parties or governmental authorities may result in financial losses, harm our reputation and require the dedication of significant management resources. We are regularly involved in litigation. The litigation naming us as a defendant ordinarily involves our activities as an insurer. In recent years, many insurance companies, including us, have been named as defendants in class actions relating to market conduct or sales practices. For our general claim litigation, we establish reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course. Management expects that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to the consolidated financial condition of the Company. Nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain claim litigation involving punitive damages could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Given the expense and inherent risks and uncertainties of litigation, we regularly evaluate litigation matters pending against us, including those described in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, to 26 Table of Contents determine if settlement of such matters would be in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. The costs associated with any such settlement could be substantial and, in certain cases, could result in an earnings charge in any particular quarter in which we enter into a settlement agreement. Although we have recorded litigation reserves which represent our best estimate on probable losses, our recorded reserves might prove to be inadequate to cover an adverse result or settlement for extraordinary matters. Therefore, costs associated with the various litigation matters to which we are subject and any earnings charge recorded in connection with a settlement agreement could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to achieve certain operational and strategic initiatives may adversely affect our business. Our future success depends in large part upon our management team’s ability to execute our strategy to position us for the future. This strategy includes, without limitation, the growth of our Insphere agency business through traditional and alternative distribution channels (including telesales) and the need to make this business more efficient; the growth of our supplemental product business underwritten by Chesapeake and related distribution opportunities of this business including, but not limited to, distribution through brokerage channels, strategic partnerships and joint venture arrangements; opportunities created by new product offerings, such as the commencement in 2012 of the marketing of stand-alone Medicare prescription drug plans (“PDPs”) under the Medicare Part D program by our HealthMarkets Insurance Company subsidiary; and initiatives to reduce administrative expenses, including, but not limited to, adjusting the workforce to reflect current business levels and consolidating certain administrative functions. We have made and may in the future continue to make substantial investments in pursuit of this strategy. There can be no assurance that we will achieve this strategy, and any failure to achieve this strategy could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions may adversely affect our business. We continue to evaluate the profitability of our existing businesses and operations. From time to time, we review potential acquisitions and divestitures in light of our core businesses and growth strategies. The success of any such acquisition or divestiture depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable buyers or sellers, negotiate favorable contract terms and, in many cases, obtain governmental approval. For acquisitions, success is also dependent upon efficiently integrating the acquired business into the Company’s existing operations. For divestures, in the event the structure of the transaction results in continuing obligations by the buyer to us or our customers, a buyer’s inability to fulfill these obligations could lead to future financial loss on our part. In addition, any divestiture could result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets. In addition, potential acquisitions or divestitures present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses, assumption of unknown liabilities, indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. Insphere Insurance Solutions is a relatively new business and its long-term success is uncertain. The Company formed Insphere Insurance Solutions, Inc. in 2009. The success of this line of business depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the ability of Insphere to maintain applicable licenses, recruit and retain productive agents, maintain and expand satisfactory relationships with insurance carriers, the implementation and maintenance of various information technology and administrative systems, platforms and processes necessary to successfully run the business, and the regulatory and legislative environment. To date, Insphere has generated significant revenues but has not been profitable. The ongoing implementing regulations of the Health Care Reform Legislation is expected to present additional challenges to profitability and Insphere more generally. Like any business in a relatively early stage of development, the progress and success of Insphere entails substantial uncertainty. If the Company’s attempt to develop the Insphere business does not progress as planned, the Company may be materially and adversely affected by, among other things, capital, investments, and operating expenses that have not led to the anticipated results. 27 Table of Contents A rapid reduction in the size of our in-force block of health benefits plans could result in a reduction in underwriting profits, which may not be replaced in the near term by earnings from other areas of our business, which may cause the Company to impair its goodwill and intangible assets. In 2010, the Company discontinued the sale of its “scheduled benefit” health insurance products and discontinued marketing all health benefit plans underwritten by its insurance subsidiaries, in all but a limited number of states. These actions reflect a number of factors, including (1) the Company’s evaluation of National Health Care Reform Legislation which, among other things, requires a minimum medical loss ratio of 80% for the individual and small group markets beginning in 2011 and eliminates most annual caps on benefits - an important feature of our “scheduled benefit” products; (2) the Company’s decision to focus on business opportunities that allow us to maximize the value of the Insphere independent agent sales force, with particular focus on the sale of third-party health insurance products underwritten by non-affiliated insurance companies and supplemental products underwritten by the Company’s insurance subsidiaries (which are generally not subject to the requirements of the Health Care Reform Legislation); and (3) the fact that in the states where third party health insurance plans distributed by Insphere have been introduced, they have, to a great extent, replaced the sale of the Company’s health benefit plan offerings. The Company continues to maintain a significant in-force block of health benefit plans, and continues to underwrite and distribute its own health benefit plans in a limited number of states. We expect that maintenance of the Company’s in-force block of health benefit plans, at current levels, will present significant challenges resulting from, among other things, competitive pressure due to the shift in our distribution focus toward third-party product sales and changes resulting from Health Care Reform Legislation. For non-grandfathered plans, changes that we expect to impact our in-force block health benefit plan business include, but are not limited to, the obligation to add mandated “essential health benefits” (which is expected to significantly increase our claims costs), limitations on the ability to vary premium based on assessment of underlying risk (including elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions and health status rating adjustments), and the creation of public health insurance exchanges with standardized plans available to the individual and small group markets (which, as a result of federal subsidies available to qualified individuals purchasing health insurance through exchanges, may cause our customers to migrate to such exchanges and result in the loss of business). If maintaining our in-force block of health benefit plans (or portions thereof) is no longer profitable due to these or other changes, we may choose to non-renew coverage of these plans in one or more states subject to applicable state and federal discontinuation or withdrawal requirements. The Company evaluates the impact of the Health Care Reform Legislation on its in-force block of health benefit plans on an ongoing basis. Over time, we expect the size of our in-force block of health benefit plans to continue decreasing. As a result, we anticipate that premium revenue and underwriting profits associated with this in-force block will decline and may not be replaced in the near term by earnings from other areas of the business. We expect it to take a considerable amount of time to grow the premium revenue and underwriting profits associated with our supplemental product offerings and the net commission revenue generated from Insphere. This transition in our revenue stream will make it difficult to support administrative expenses at current levels. To better align expenses in light of dropping enrollment levels, the Company has been pursuing initiatives to significantly reduce administrative expenses, including but not limited to reductions in its workforce, consolidation of certain administrative functions and the reorganization of Insphere’s field structure to make it more efficient, and we expect initiatives of this nature to continue in the future. However, if developments occur that accelerate the reduction of our in-force block, including concerted efforts by agents to replace this business or a decision by the Company to non-renew its existing health benefit plan business in one or more states subject to applicable state and federal requirements, we may be unable to reduce expenses in a manner that keeps pace with dropping enrollment levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, any adverse impact could cause the Company to impair its goodwill and intangible assets. Insphere faces risks related to its relationships with non-affiliated insurance carriers. Insphere contracts with non-affiliated carriers to distribute products underwritten by such carriers. These contracts generally provide that either party may terminate the contract for convenience by providing the other 28 Table of Contents party with a relatively short period of advance notice. In any particular market, carriers could terminate their contracts with us (or refuse to contract with us), demand lower commissions or take other actions, including litigation, which could adversely affect our business. We are also dependent on non-affiliated carriers to pay Insphere in a timely and accurate manner and to provide Insphere with data required to support the sale of third party products and to timely and accurately pay its agents. The failure by a non-affiliated carrier to provide Insphere with the data and support necessary for Insphere to sell the carrier’s products and to pay its agents, resulting from a failure in data systems or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect Insphere’s business. Our business is also vulnerable to a non-affiliated carrier’s failure to administer underwritten business in an appropriate manner, which could lead to customer dissatisfaction and the lapse or cancellation of insurance policies for which Insphere receives commissions. Insphere could also be materially and adversely affected if a non-affiliated carrier with which it does business experiences a downgrade in its financial strength ratings which, for the affected carrier, could reduce Insphere’s level of business and commissions. A failure of our information systems to provide timely and accurate information, or a failure to properly maintain the integrity of our data, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Effective information systems, and the integrity and timeliness of the data we use to run our business, are critical to our operations and requires an ongoing commitment of time and resources. We outsource a number of functions related to information systems support and dependence on these third parties makes us vulnerable to any failure in performance by these parties. Additionally, we are potentially vulnerable to cybersecurity attacks that bypass our information technology security systems. If a security breach were to occur, it could result in the loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property, disrupt our information systems and business more generally and cause negative publicity and reputational damage. The failure to maintain an effective and efficient information system, disruptions in our information systems or the failure to maintain data integrity could cause disruptions in our business operations that include, but are not limited to, (a) failure to comply with prompt pay laws; (b) loss of existingcustomers; (c) difficulty in attracting new customers; (d) disputes (including litigation) with customers, providers and agents; (e) regulatory problems; (f) increases in administrative expenses; and (g) other adverse consequences. There can be no assurance that our information systems will remain effective, timely and secure, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our reliance on outsourcing arrangements subjects us to risk and may disrupt or adversely affect our operations. Historically, we have maintained an administrative center with underwriting, claims management and administrative capabilities performed in-house. Over the last several years, we have outsourced many of these functions, including new business processing, provider service calls and a larger portion of the claims processing functions, to contracted third parties, including parties who may perform these functions offshore. We evaluate opportunities to subcontract additional services of this nature on an ongoing basis and may outsource additional functions in the future. The Company retains ultimate responsibility for ensuring that these functions are performed in a timely and appropriate manner. Dependence on third parties for these services may make our operations vulnerable to the third party’s failure to perform as agreed. If these third parties fail to satisfy their obligations to us, including obligations with respect to the security and confidentiality of information and data of the Company and/or its customers, our operations may be adversely affected. Reliance on third parties also makes us vulnerable to changes in the vendors’ business, financial condition and other matters outside of our control. The failure to adequately monitor and regulate the performance of our third party vendors could subject us to additional risk. Violations of laws or regulations by third party vendors could increase our exposure to liability or otherwise increase the costs associated with the operation of our business. Some of our outsourced services are being performed offshore, which could expose us to risks inherent in conducting business outside of the United States, including international economic and political conditions and additional costs associated with complying with foreign laws. If an outsourced relationship is terminated, we may not be able to find a replacement in a timely manner or on acceptable financial terms, and may incur significant costs in connection with the transition to a new vendor. 29 Table of Contents Natural disasters or other catastrophic events could severely damage or interrupt our systems and operations and result in an adverse effect on our business. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events such as fire, flood, hurricane, earthquake, tornado, power loss, virus, telecommunications failure, break-in or similar event could severely damage or interrupt our systems and operations, result in loss of data, and/or delay or impair our ability to service our customers. We have in place a disaster recovery plan which is intended to provide us with the ability to maintain our operations in the event of a natural disaster. However, there can be no assurance that such adverse effects will not occur in the event of a disaster. Any such disaster or similar event could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to retain key executives or appropriately manage succession, our business could be adversely affected. We have experienced high turnover in our senior management team in recent years. Although we have employment arrangements in place with our key executives, these do not guarantee that the services of these executives will continue to be available to us, and we would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for future turnover of our senior management team. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 