Item 1A. Risk Factors The following factors could impact our business and financial prospects: Enactment of national health care reform legislation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, both for our Self-Employed Agency Division and Insphere Insurance Solutions, Inc. On November 7, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Affordable Health Care for America Act which would, among other things, authorize the creation of a national public plan that would be offered through a national health insurance exchange. On December 24, 2009, the U.S. Senate passed the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act. The Senate bill authorizes the creation of multi-state plans to be offered on a new national health insurance exchange and authorizes funding to support the creation of non-profit, member-run health insurance companies that would be offered through the exchange. If implemented, products available through these exchanges could partially or fully replace some of our current products. Provisions in both of the bills would also establish minimum loss ratios for health insurance policies that are significantly above the levels historically experienced by the Company’s insurance subsidiaries. Such minimum loss ratios could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. It remains unclear how and when these bills will be reconciled and we cannot predict whether legislation will be enacted, the final form any legislation might take or the effects of such legislation. Any health care reforms enacted may be phased in over a number of years, but, if enacted, could increase our costs, require us to revise the ways in which we conduct business or result in the loss of business for the Company’s insurance subsidiaries. The changes resulting from such legislation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Senate bill provides that individual health insurance policies must have a minimum loss ratio of 80% and the House bill sets a minimum loss ratio for such policies at 85%. Historically, the Company has not been able to price premiums for its individual health insurance policies at these loss ratio levels. Enactment of minimum loss ratios at these levels could require us to discontinue marketing individual health insurance and/or to non-renew coverage of our existing individual health customers pursuant to applicable state and federal requirements. Enactment of minimum loss ratios at the levels in the Senate and House bills may also have a material adverse effect on the level of base commissions and override commissions Insphere receives from third party insurance carriers. We believe that these minimum loss ratios may be significantly above the levels historically experienced by 18 Table of Contents Insphere’s third party insurance carriers. As a result, these carriers could be forced to reduce commissions, overrides and other administrative expenses in order to comply with the minimum loss ratio requirements. Changes in government regulation could increase the costs of compliance or cause us to discontinue marketing our products, or otherwise cease doing business, in certain states. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry (see Item 1. Business — “Regulatory and Legislative Matters” for additional information). In addition to the national health care reform legislation discussed above, the federal and state governments continue to consider legislative and regulatory proposals that could materially impact health insurance companies and various aspects of the current health care system, including, among other things, modifications to the existing employer-based insurance system, a quasi-regulated system of “managed competition” among health insurers and a single-payer, public program in which the government would oversee or manage the provision of health insurance coverage. Many of these proposals attempt to reduce the number of uninsured by increasing affordability and expanding access to health insurance, including proposals intended to expand eligibility for public programs, guarantee coverage with no pre-existing condition exclusions, and compel individuals and employers to purchase health insurance coverage. The changes resulting from such legislation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a number of states in which we do business are considering legislation intended to increase affordability or expand coverage of the uninsured, including laws that would mandate minimum loss ratios or increase existing minimum loss ratios for the products we offer. In 2009, legislation proposing an increase in minimum loss ratio was introduced in a number of states in which we do business. While these proposals were not enacted into law, we expect state legislatures to continue pursuing such initiatives in 2010 and future years, depending on whether changes in minimum loss ratios occur in connection with national health care reform. As discussed above in the national health care reform risk factor, such legislation, if passed, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, both for our Self-Employed Agency Division and Insphere Insurance Solutions, Inc., including causing us to discontinue marketing our products in states where such legislation is passed or resulting in a material narrowing of profit margin. Some of the more significant additional legislative and regulatory developments that could potentially affect our business include the following: • Requiring employers to provide health insurance to employees; • Requiring individuals to purchase health insurance coverage; • Establishing a minimum level of coverage required to satisfy health insurance mandates; • Establishing minimum loss ratios that require insurers to pay a minimum amount of claim payments as a percentage of premiums received; • Guarantee issue requirements and restricting the ability of health insurers to assess risks of applicants and/or set premium rates based on the claims experience or risk characteristics of the insured; • Creating an “exchange” or other government entity to distribute insurance coverage; • Establishing the federal government as a single payer; • Allowing individuals and/or the self-employed to collectively purchase health insurance coverage without any other affiliations; • Restricting the ability of health insurers to offer coverage under the “association group” model; • Mandating coverage of certain conditions or specified procedures, drugs and devices; • Standardizing individual health insurance so as to restrict the ability of health insurers to significantly vary coverage, including the health care services considered to be “covered” or “excluded,” deductible and cost-sharing levels and coverage limits; 19 Table of Contents • Restricting the ability of health insurers to rescind coverage based on applicant’s misrepresentations or omissions; and • Extending malpractice and other liability exposure for decisions made by health insurers. We expect the trend of increased legislative activity concerning health care reform to continue and cannot predict with certainty the effect that such proposals, if adopted, could have on our health insurance business and operations. Changes in health care policy could significantly affect our business. Many of the proposals, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the level of government regulation or in the laws and regulations themselves could substantially increase the costs of compliance and result in significant changes to our operations, including potentially causing us to discontinue marketing our products in certain states. For example, as a result of certain regulatory developments in Washington State, the Company has determined that it cannot continue to operate profitably in Washington State. The Company and the Washington State Insurance Commissioner have reached a preliminary agreement in principle that the Company will non-renew its health benefit plan policies and withdraw from the health benefit plan market place in the next several months. The Company currently has over 9,000 certificate holders in Washington State (see Item 1. Business — “Regulatory and Legislative Matters” for additional information). We evaluate legislative developments on an ongoing basis. If we determine that the legislative or regulatory environment in a particular state prevents us from doing business in a state on a profitable basis, we may determine that it is in the Company’s best interest to cease doing business in that state. Failure to comply with extensive state and federal regulations could subject us to fines, penalties and suspensions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision (see Item 1. Business — “Regulatory and Legislative Matters” for additional information). Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than stockholders and other investors. This regulation, generally administered by a department of insurance in each state in which we do business, relates to, among other things: • licensing of insurers and their agents; • sales and marketing practices; • training and oversight of agents; • handling of consumer complaints and grievances; • approval of policy forms and premium rates; • standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements, which are a measure developed by the NAIC and used by state insurance regulators to identify insurance companies that potentially are inadequately capitalized; • restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; • restrictions on transactions between insurance companies and their affiliates; • restrictions on the size of risks insurable under a single policy; • requiring deposits for the benefit of policyholders; • requiring certain methods of accounting; • prescribing the form and content of records of financial condition required to be filed; and • requiring reserves for losses and other purposes. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies through, among other things, financial and market conduct examinations, and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to the financial condition of insurance companies, holding company issues and other matters. Regulatory agencies have imposed substantial fines against us in the past, and may impose substantial fines against us in the 20 Table of Contents future if they determine that we have not complied with applicable laws and regulations (see Note 18 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). There is also substantial federal regulation of our business. Laws and regulations adopted by the federal government, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, HIPAA, the USA PATRIOT Act and the CAN SPAM and Do Not Call regulations, establish administrative and compliance requirements applicable to the Company. Our business depends on compliance with applicable laws and regulations and our ability to maintain valid licenses and approvals for our operations. Regulatory authorities have broad discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals. Regulatory authorities may deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. In some instances, we follow practices based on our interpretations of regulations, or those that we believe to be generally followed by the industry, which may be different from the requirements or interpretations of regulatory authorities. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals and do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us. That type of action could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our failure to comply with new or existing government regulation could subject us to significant fines and penalties. Our efforts to measure, monitor and adjust our business practices to comply with current laws are ongoing. Failure to comply with enacted regulations could result in significant fines, penalties or the loss of one or more of our licenses. Current or future state and federal regulations could impede our ability to obtain effective leads and adversely affect our business We utilize, either directly or through third party vendors, e-mails and telephone calls to identify prospective sales leads for use by our agents. Lead generation activities are subject to state and federal regulations, including, but not limited to, the federal CAN SPAM Act (which establishes national standards for sending bulk, unsolicited commercial e-mail) and the federal “Do Not Call” regulations (which require companies including insurers and insurance agencies to develop their own “do not call” lists and reference state and federal “do not call” registries before making calls to market insurance products, and prohibit unsolicited facsimiles) (see Item 1. Business — “Regulatory and Legislative Matters” for additional information). Failure to comply could result in enforcement actions by state attorneys general, regulatory fines and penalties and civil lawsuits. We believe that our ability to obtain quality sales leads plays a significant role in the generation of new business and our efforts to recruit and retain effective agents. To the extent that laws currently in effect, or passed in the future, make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain effective leads, or eliminate our ability to purchase or generate leads, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We must comply with restrictions on customer privacy and information security, including taking steps to ensure compliance by our business associates with HIPAA. The use, disclosure and secure handling of individually identifiable health information by our business is subject to state and federal law and regulations, including the privacy provisions of the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the privacy and security regulations promulgated under HIPAA (See Item 1. Business — “Regulatory and Legislative Matters” for additional information). The HIPAA regulations establish significant criminal penalties and civil sanctions for non-compliance. The HIPAA regulations require, among other things, that we enter into specific written agreements with business associates to whom individually identifiable health information is disclosed. Although our contracts with business associates provide for appropriate protections of such information, we may have limited control over the actions and practices of our business associates. The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH Act”) was enacted into law on February 17, 2009 as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. The HITECH Act contains a number of provisions that significantly expand the reach of HIPAA, including imposition of varying civil monetary penalties, creation of a private cause of action for HIPAA violations, extension of HIPAA’s security provisions to business associates and creation of new security breach notification requirements. Compliance with HIPAA, the HITECH Act and other state and federal privacy and security regulations have required us to implement changes in our programs and systems to maintain compliance and may in the future result in significant expenditures due to necessary systems 21 Table of Contents changes, the development of new administrative processes and the effects of potential noncompliance by our business associates. Failure to comply with the terms of the regulatory settlement agreement arising out of the multi-state market conduct examination of our principal insurance subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In March 2005, we received notification that the Market Analysis Working Group of the NAIC had chosen the states of Washington and Alaska to lead a multi-state market conduct examination of our principal insurance subsidiaries, MEGA, Mid-West and Chesapeake (the “Insurance Subsidiaries”). On May 29, 2008, the Insurance Subsidiaries entered into a regulatory settlement agreement (“RSA”) with the states of Washington and Alaska, as lead regulators, and three other “monitoring” states. Thereafter, all states (other than Massachusetts and Delaware) and the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and Guam signed the RSA, which became effective on August 15, 2008. In connection with the RSA, the Insurance Subsidiaries paid a penalty of $20 million. The RSA includes standards for performance measurement for 13 different required actions which must be implemented on or before December 31, 2009. The Insurance Subsidiaries filed the last of the semi-annual reports required by the RSA on February 15, 2010 and have taken actions to meet all the standards of the RSA on or before the due date. On or about March 15, 2010, the monitoring states are expected to initiate a re-examination to assess the standards for performance measurement. If the re-examination is unfavorable, the Insurance Subsidiaries are subject to additional penalties of up to $10 million. See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company’s insurance subsidiaries have periodically been the subject of other market conduct examinations conducted by state insurance departments. As reported in Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, such examinations have included the market conduct examination of MEGA, Mid-West and Chesapeake by the Massachusetts Division of Insurance, resulting in a 2006 regulatory settlement agreement, and subsequent re-examination of certain key provisions of the regulatory settlement agreement commencing in January 2009, which was settled on August 26, 2009. The Company’s insurance subsidiaries are also subject to various other pending market conduct and other regulatory examinations, inquiries or proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. State insurance regulatory agencies have authority to levy significant fines and penalties and require remedial action resulting from findings made during the course of such matters. Market conduct or other regulatory examinations, inquiries or proceedings could result in, among other things, changes in business practices that require the Company to incur substantial costs. Such results, singly or in combination, could injure our reputation, cause negative publicity, adversely affect our debt and financial strength ratings, place us at a competitive disadvantage in marketing or administering our products or impair our ability to sell or retain insurance policies, thereby adversely affecting our business, and potentially materially adversely affecting the results of operations in a period, depending on the results of operations for the particular period. Determination by regulatory authorities that we have engaged in improper conduct could also adversely affect our defense of various lawsuits. We may lose business to competitors offering competitive products at lower prices. We compete, and will continue to compete, for customers and distributors with many insurance companies and other financial services companies. Our competitors may offer a broader array of products than we do, have a greater diversity of distribution resources, have better brand recognition, have more competitive pricing, have lower cost structures or, with respect to insurers, have higher financial strength or claims paying ratings. Competitors with sizable market share or provider-owned plans may be able to obtain favorable financial arrangements from healthcare providers that are not available to us. Some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. Other companies enter and exit the markets in which we operate, thereby increasing competition at times when there are new entrants. 22 Table of Contents Failure to recruit and retain agents could prevent us from competing successfully and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We compete not only for the business of customers, but also for agents and distribution relationships with other distributors and insurance companies. We distribute our products as well as the products of non-affiliated insurance companies through independent agents contracted with Insphere. Insphere’s business is highly competitive and there are many insurance agencies, brokers and intermediaries who actively compete with us. We also compete with insurance companies that sell their products directly to customers and do not use or pay commissions to third-party agents or brokers. In addition, the Internet continues to be a source for direct placement of business and creates competition for Insphere. We compete for productive agents with other distributors based on a number of factors, including compensation structure, level of training and support services and product offerings. It can be difficult to successfully compete for agents with companies that have greater financial resources or name recognition. Our inability to recruit and retain productive insurance agents could adversely affect Insphere’s business prospects and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in our relationship with membership associations that make available to their members our health insurance products and/or changes in the laws and regulations governing so-called “association group” insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s independent agents act as field service representatives (FSRs) for various independent membership associations. In this capacity, the FSRs enroll new association members and provide membership retention services. For such services, the Company and the FSRs receive compensation. As is the case with many of our competitors in the self-employed market, a substantial portion of our health insurance products are issued to members of such associations, which act as the master policyholder for such products. In 2009, the principal membership associations in the self employed market through which HealthMarkets insurance products were made available were the Alliance for Affordable Services, the National Association for the Self-Employed (“NASE”) and Americans for Financial Security. The associations provide their members with access to a number of benefits and products, including health insurance underwritten by the HealthMarkets insurance subsidiaries. Subject to applicable state law, individuals generally may not obtain insurance under an association’s master policy unless they are also members of the association. The agreements with these associations, requiring the associations to continue as the master policyholder for our policies and to make our products available to their respective members, are terminable by us and the associations upon not less than one year’s advance notice to the other party. A termination of our agreements with these associations would be fundamentally disruptive to our marketing efforts. We would be unable to offer products through the association master policy and, in certain states, could be required to seek approval of new policy forms and premium rates before resuming marketing efforts. In the event of a termination, the associations could market alternative health insurance products to their association members. In December 2009, the Company and NASE settled a legal action filed by Performance Driven Awards, Inc. against NASE. Pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement, the NASE-PDA Field Services Agreement was terminated, as a result of which the Company’s FSR are no longer selling new NASE memberships and the Company’s independent insurance agents are no longer selling new certificates of insurance to NASE members. NASE memberships and certificates of insurance previously sold to NASE members remain in force (subject to ordinary course termination), and NASE is obligated to continue paying PDA for members previously enrolled in NASE by PDA. See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. While we believe that we are providing association group coverage in full compliance with applicable law, further changes in our relationship with the membership associations and/or changes in the laws and regulations governing so-called “association group” insurance, particularly changes that would subject the issuance of policies to prior premium rate approval and/or require the issuance of policies on a “guaranteed issue” basis, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Negative publicity regarding our business practices and about the health insurance industry in general may harm our business and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The health and life insurance industry and related products and services we provide attracts negative publicity from consumer advocate groups and the media. Negative publicity regarding the industry generally or our Company in particular may result in increased regulation and legislative scrutiny as well as increased litigation, which may further increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by impeding our ability to market our products and services, requiring us to change our products or services or increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate. Certain of the matters referred to in Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, in particular the multi-state market conduct examination of our insurance subsidiaries led by the states of Washington and Alaska, the litigation filed by the Massachusetts Attorney General on behalf of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and the market conduct examination of our insurance subsidiaries by the Massachusetts Division of Insurance, and the subsequent settlements of these matters, generated significantly adverse publicity for the Company. Matters of this nature in the future could result in the loss of reputation and business for the Company and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to secure and enhance cost-effective healthcare provider network contracts may result in a loss of insureds and/or higher medical costs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations and competitive position could be adversely affected by our inability to enter into or maintain satisfactory relationships with networks of hospitals, physicians, dentists, pharmacies and other healthcare providers. The failure to secure cost-effective healthcare provider network contracts, the inability to maintain “rental” access to health care provider networks, or the refusal of health care providers to honor the discounts obtained through such networks, may result in a loss of insureds or higher medical costs. In addition, the inability to contract with provider networks, the inability to terminate contracts with existing provider networks and enter into arrangements with new provider networks to serve the same market, and/or the inability of providers to provide adequate care, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. HealthMarkets’ inability to obtain funds from its insurance subsidiaries may cause it to experience reduced cash flow, which could affect the Company’s ability to pay its obligations to creditors as they become due. We are a holding company, and our principal assets are investments in separate operating subsidiaries, including our regulated insurance subsidiaries. Our ability to fund our cash requirements is largely dependent upon our ability to access cash from our subsidiaries through the payment of dividends. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulations that limit their ability to transfer funds to us. If we are unable to obtain funds from our insurance subsidiaries, we will experience reduced cash flow, which could affect our ability to pay our obligations to creditors as they become due. We have a material amount of debt outstanding that contains restrictive covenants and our inability to service and repay our debt obligations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations We have a material amount of debt outstanding (see Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). In connection with the Merger on April 5, 2006, HealthMarkets, LLC entered into a credit agreement providing for, among other things, a $500 million term loan facility. The term loan facility will expire on April 5, 2012. At December 31, 2009, $362.5 million remained outstanding on the term loan facility. Our indebtedness could have an adverse effect on our business and future operations, including requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce funds available to fund working capital, capital expenditures and general operating requirements; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt. In addition, the credit agreement requires us to comply with various covenants that impose restrictions on our operations, including our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make 24 Table of Contents investments or other restricted payments, sell or otherwise dispose of assets and engage in certain other activities. The credit agreement also establishes a number of financial covenants, including maximum total leverage ratio requirements and minimum adjusted statutory surplus requirements. The restrictive covenants under our credit agreement could restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. Any failure to comply with these restrictive covenants could result in an event of default under the credit agreement which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to accommodate redemption requests by agents participating in the HealthMarkets, Inc. InVest Stock Ownership Plan could result in dissatisfaction and attrition among our contracted independent agents. Historically, we have generally accommodated requests to purchase Class A-2 shares upon the withdrawal of a participant from the stock accumulation plans established for the benefit of the Company’s agents, but are under no obligation to do so. Any repurchase of shares requires the Company’s consent, which may be withheld in our sole discretion. The ability to accommodate redemption requests is subject to a variety of factors, including the number of requests received and the Company’s capital position. The volume of redemption requests generally has been low. If the number of redemption requests increases as a result of an event that is perceived by agents to have a negative effect on the Company’s financial condition or operations (e.g. passage of national health care reform legislation or adverse publicity regarding the health insurance industry in general or our business specifically), the number of redemption requests could increase and the Company may elect not to accommodate such requests, which could result in dissatisfaction and substantial attrition among the agents within our agent field force as well as litigation risk. Current unfavorable economic conditions could adversely affect our business. General economic, financial market and political conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the global mortgage market, a declining global real estate market, rising and high unemployment, and the loss of consumer confidence and a reduction in consumer spending have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These market conditions expose us to a number of risks, including risks associated with the potential financial instability of our customers. If our customer base experiences cash flow problems and other financial difficulties, it could, in turn, adversely impact the sale of our insurance products. For example, our customers may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products, or may choose to reduce the level of coverage purchased from us. In addition, if our customers experience financial issues, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us. Further, our customers or potential customers may force us to compete more vigorously on factors such as price and service to retain or obtain their business. A significant decline in the sale of our products and the inability of current and/or potential customers to pay their premiums as a result of unfavorable economic conditions may adversely affect our business, including our revenues, profitability and cash flow. In addition, general inflationary pressures may affect the costs of health care, increasing the costs of paying claims. In addition, we are subject to extensive laws and regulations that are administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities, including, but not limited to, state insurance regulators, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and state attorneys general. In light of the difficult economic conditions, some of these authorities are considering or may in the future consider enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future crises or to otherwise assure the stability of institutions under their supervision. These authorities may also seek to exercise their supervisory or enforcement authority in new or more robust ways. All of these possibilities, if they occurred, could affect the way we conduct our business and manage our capital, either of which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The value of our investments is influenced by varying economic and market conditions and a decrease in value could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and liquidity. Our investment portfolio is comprised primarily of investments classified as securities available for sale. The fair value of our available for sale securities was $756.4 million and represented approximately 40% of our total 25 Table of Contents consolidated assets at December 31, 2009. These investments are carried at fair value, and the unrealized gains or losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of shareholders’ equity, unless the decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary. For our available for sale investments, if a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, the security is deemed to be other than temporarily impaired and it is written down to fair value. OTTI losses attributed to credit loss are recorded in earnings while OTTI losses attributed to other factors are recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” and have no effect on earnings. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we review our investment securities to determine if declines in fair value below cost are other than temporary. This review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. We conduct this review on a quarterly basis (or more frequently if certain indicators arise), using both quantitative and qualitative factors, to determine whether a decline in value is other than temporary. In its review, management considers the following indicators of impairment: fair value significantly below cost; decline in fair value attributable to specific adverse conditions affecting a particular investment; decline in fair value attributable to specific conditions, such as conditions in an industry or in a geographic area; decline in fair value for an extended period of time; downgrades by rating agencies from investment grade to non-investment grade; financial condition deterioration of the issuer and situations where dividends have been reduced or eliminated or scheduled interest payments have not been made. The current economic environment and recent volatility of the securities markets increase the difficulty of assessing investment impairment and the same influences tend to increase the risk of potential impairment of these assets. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded $4.5 million of charges for other than temporary impairment of securities. Given the current volatile market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and material other than temporary impairments may result in realized losses in future periods which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Adverse securities and credit market conditions could have a material adverse affect on our liquidity or our ability to obtain credit on acceptable terms. The securities and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on the availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. We need liquidity to make payments for benefits, claims and commissions, service the Company’s debt obligations and pay operating expenses. Our primary sources of cash on a consolidated basis have been premium revenue from policies issued, investment income, and fees and other income. In the event we need access to additional capital to pay our operating expenses, make payments on our indebtedness, pay capital expenditures or fund acquisitions, our ability to obtain such capital may be limited and the cost of any such capital may be significant. Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. If a combination of these factors were to occur, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms. Failure of our insurance subsidiaries to maintain their current insurance ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our principal insurance subsidiaries are currently rated by A.M. Best, Fitch and S&P and experienced downgrades in financial strength ratings during 2009. These ratings are subject to periodic review by the ratings agencies and there can be no assurances that we will be able to maintain these current ratings. A downward adjustment in rating by A.M. Best, Fitch and/or S&P of our insurance subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our ratings are lowered from their current levels, our competitive position could be materially adversely affected and it could be more difficult for us to market our products. Rating agencies may take action to lower our ratings in the future due to, among other things, perceived concerns about our liquidity or solvency, the competitive environment in the insurance industry, which may adversely affect our revenues, the inherent uncertainty in determining reserves for future claims, which may cause 26 Table of Contents us to increase our reserves for claims, the outcome of pending litigation and regulatory investigations, which may adversely affect our financial position and reputation and possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies. In addition, rating agencies have come under recent scrutiny over their ratings practices and could, as a result, become more conservative in their methodology and criteria, which could adversely affect our ratings. Finally, rating agencies or regulators could increase capital requirements for the Company or its subsidiaries which in turn, could negatively affect our financial position as well. We may not have enough statutory capital and surplus to continue to write business. Our continued ability to write business is dependent on maintaining adequate levels of statutory capital and surplus to support the policies we write. Our new business writing typically results in net losses on a statutory basis during the early years of a policy. The resulting reduction in statutory surplus, or surplus strain, limits our ability to seek new business due to statutory restrictions on premium to surplus ratios and statutory surplus requirements. If we cannot generate sufficient statutory surplus to maintain minimum statutory requirements through increased statutory profitability, reinsurance or other capital generating alternatives, we will be limited in our ability to realize additional premium revenue from new business writing, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or, in the event that our statutory surplus is not sufficient to meet minimum premium to surplus and risk-based capital ratios in any state, we could be prohibited from writing new policies in such state. Failure to accurately estimate medical claims and healthcare costs may have a significant impact on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to accurately estimate medical claims and control healthcare costs, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We estimate the cost of future medical claims and other expenses using actuarial methods based upon historical data, medical inflation, product mix, seasonality, utilization of healthcare services and other relevant factors. We establish premiums based on these methods. The premiums we charge our customers generally are fixed for six-month or one-year periods, and costs we incur in excess of our medical claim projections generally are not recovered in the contract year through higher premiums. Our reserves for current and future claims may be inadequate and any increase to such reserves could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We calculate and maintain reserves for current and future claims using assumptions about numerous variables, including our estimate of the probability of a policyholder making a claim, the severity and duration of such claim, the mortality rate of our policyholders, the persistency or renewal of our policies in force and the amount of interest we expect to earn from the investment of premiums. The adequacy of our reserves depends on the accuracy of our assumptions. The Company’s estimates with respect to claims liability and related benefit expenses are subject to an extensive degree of judgment and we cannot assure you that our actual experience will not differ from the assumptions used in the establishment of reserves. Any variance from these assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Litigation or settlements thereof may result in financial losses or harm our reputation and may divert management resources. Current and future litigation with private parties or governmental authorities may result in financial losses, harm our reputation and require the dedication of significant management resources. We are regularly involved in litigation. The litigation naming us as a defendant ordinarily involves our activities as an insurer. In recent years, many insurance companies, including us, have been named as defendants in class actions relating to market conduct or sales practices. For our general claim litigation, we establish reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course. Management expects that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to the consolidated financial condition of the Company. Nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in 27 Table of Contents certain claim litigation involving punitive damages could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in a period, depending on the results of our operations for the particular period. Given the expense and inherent risks and uncertainties of litigation, we regularly evaluate litigation matters pending against us, including those described in Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, to determine if settlement of such matters would be in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. The costs associated with any such settlement could be substantial and, in certain cases, could result in an earnings charge in any particular quarter in which we enter into a settlement agreement. Although we have recorded litigation reserves which represent our best estimate on probable losses, our recorded reserves might prove to be inadequate to cover an adverse result or settlement for extraordinary matters. Therefore, costs associated with the various litigation matters to which we are subject and any earnings charge recorded in connection with a settlement agreement could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in a period, depending on the results of our operations for the particular period. Acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions may adversely affect our business. We continue to evaluate the profitability of our existing businesses and operations. From time to time, we review potential acquisitions and divestitures in light of our core businesses and growth strategies. The success of any such acquisition or divestiture depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable buyers or sellers, negotiate favorable contract terms and, in many cases, obtain governmental approval. For acquisitions, success is also dependent upon efficiently integrating the acquired business into the Company’s existing operations. For divestures, in the event the structure of the transaction results in continuing obligations by the buyer to us or our customers, a buyer’s inability to fulfil these obligations could lead to future financial loss on our part. In addition, any divestiture could result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets. For example, the reinsurance transaction involving our former Life Insurance Division resulted in a pre-tax loss of $21.5 million, of which $13.0 million was recorded as an impairment to the Life Insurance Division’s deferred acquisition costs with the remainder of the $8.5 million loss recorded in “Realized gains, net” in the Company’s consolidated statement of income (loss) (see Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). In addition, potential acquisitions or divestitures present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses, assumption of unknown liabilities, indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. The Success of our Insphere Insurance Solutions Business is Uncertain. The Company formed Insphere Insurance Solutions, Inc. in the second quarter of 2009 to serve as an insurance agency specializing in small business and middle-income market life, health, long-term care and retirement insurance. The success of this new line of business depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the ability of Insphere to obtain and maintain applicable licenses, Insphere’s ability to enter into and maintain satisfactory relationships with insurance carriers and agents and the implementation of various information technology and administrative systems, platforms and processes necessary to successfully run the new business. Like any new business, the progress and success of Insphere entails substantial uncertainty. If the Company’s attempt to develop the Insphere business does not progress as planned, the Company may be materially and adversely affected by, among other things, capital, investments and operating expenses that have not led to the anticipated results. The Company’s insurance subsidiaries may lose business to competitors whose products are sold by Insphere and its agents, and the loss of our healthiest customers would present adverse selection risks. Insphere and its agents distribute insurance products underwritten by the Company’s insurance subsidiaries, as well as third-party insurance products underwritten by non-affiliated insurance carriers. These third-party products may be more competitive and attractive to customers than our own insurance products and may, over time, replace some or all of the sales of insurance products underwritten by our insurance subsidiaries. For example, in the markets where Insphere has commenced distribution of Golden Rule and Aetna products, these products have, to a great extent, replaced the sale of the Company’s own insurance products. In the first quarter of 2010, Insphere’s sale 28 Table of Contents of Golden Rule and Aetna products, in the aggregate, exceeded the sale of the Company’s products by nearly a five-to-one margin. If third party products replace the products underwritten by our insurance subsidiaries, the Company may not be able to maintain its current market share and, as a result, may see further declines in its premium revenue and underwriting profits from insurance product sales. These earnings may not be replaced by commission revenue generated from the distribution of third-party insurance products by Insphere, particularly in the early stages of Insphere’s operations. The movement of customers from policies underwritten by the Company’s insurance subsidiaries to products offered by non-affiliated insurance carriers also presents potential adverse selection risks. The Company’s insurance subsidiaries could be materially and adversely affected if their healthiest customers terminate or non-renew their policies in favor of policies offered by non-affiliated carriers, leaving less healthy customers who tend to incur higher health care costs. Insphere faces risks related to its relationships with non-affiliated insurance carriers. Insphere and its agents contract with non-affiliated carriers to distribute products underwritten by such carriers. These contracts generally provide that either party may terminate the contract for convenience by providing the other party with a relatively short period of advance notice. In any particular market, carriers could terminate their contracts with us (or refuse to contract with us), demand lower commissions or take other actions, including litigation, which could adversely affect our business. We are also dependent on non-affiliated carriers to pay Insphere in a timely and accurate manner and to provide Insphere with data required to support the sale of third party products and to timely and accurately pay its agents. The failure by a non-affiliated carrier to provide Insphere with the data and support necessary for Insphere to sell the carrier’s products and to pay its agents, resulting from a failure in data systems or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect Insphere’s business. Our business is also vulnerable to a non-affiliated carrier’s failure to administer underwritten business in an appropriate manner, which could lead to customer dissatisfaction and the lapse or cancellation of insurance policies for which Insphere receives commissions. Insphere could also be materially and adversely affected if a non-affiliated carrier with which it does business experiences a downgrade in its financial strength ratings which, for the affected carrier, could reduce Insphere’s level of business and commissions. A failure of our information systems to provide timely and accurate information could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Information processing is critical to our business, and a failure of our information systems to provide timely and accurate information could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The failure to maintain an effective and efficient information system or disruptions in our information system could cause disruptions in our business operations, including (a) failure to comply with prompt pay laws; (b) loss of existing insureds; (c) difficulty in attracting new insureds; (d) disputes with insureds, providers and agents; (e) regulatory problems; (f) increases in administrative expenses; and (g) other adverse consequences. Our reliance on outsourcing arrangements subjects us to risk and may disrupt or adversely affect our operations. Historically, we have maintained an administrative center with underwriting, claims management and administrative capabilities performed in-house. In 2009, we began outsourcing many of these functions, including new business processing, provider service calls and a larger portion of the claims processing functions, to contracted third parties, including parties who may perform these functions offshore. Dependence on third parties for these services may make our operations vulnerable to the third party’s failure to perform as agreed. If these third parties fail to satisfy their obligations to us, including obligations with respect to the security and confidentiality of information and data of the Company and/or its customers, our operations may be adversely affected. Reliance on third parties also makes us vulnerable to changes in the vendors’ business, financial condition and other matters outside of our control. The failure to adequately monitor and regulate the performance of our third party vendors could subject us to additional risk. Violations of laws or regulations by third party vendors could increase our exposure to liability or otherwise increase the costs associated with the operation of our business. Some of our outsourced services are being performed offshore, which could expose us to risks inherent in conducting business outside of the United States, including international economic and political conditions and additional costs 29 Table of Contents associated with complying with foreign laws. If an outsourced relationship is terminated, we may not be able to find a replacement in a timely manner or on acceptable financial terms, and may incur significant costs in connection with the transition to a new vendor. Natural disasters could severely damage or interrupt our systems and operations and result in an adverse effect on our business. Natural disasters such as fire, flood, earthquake, tornado, power loss, virus, telecommunications failure, break-in or similar event could severely damage or interrupt our systems and operations, result in loss of data, and/or delay or impair our ability to service our customers. We have in place a disaster recovery plan which is intended to provide us with the ability to maintain our operations in the event of a natural disaster. However, there can be no assurance that such adverse effects will not occur in the event of a disaster. Any such disaster or similar event could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to retain key executives or appropriately manage succession, our business could be adversely affected. We have experienced high turnover in our senior management team in recent years. Although we have employment arrangements in place with our key executives, these do no guarantee that the services of these executives will continue to be available to us, and we would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for future turnover of our senior management team. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 