ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Investors should consider carefully the following factors that could cause the Company’s operating results and financial condition to be materially adversely affected. New risks may emerge at any time, and management cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect the Company’s financial performance. Peoples Energy is a holding company and its assets consist primarily of investments in its subsidiaries; covenants in certain of the Company’s financial instruments may limit its ability to pay dividends, thereby adversely impacting the valuation of the Company’s common stock and access to capital. The Company’s assets consist primarily of investments in subsidiaries. Dividends on its common stock depend on the earnings, financial condition and capital requirements of the Company’s subsidiaries, principally Peoples Gas and North Shore Gas and the distribution or other payment of earnings from the subsidiaries to the Company in the form of dividends, loans, advances or repayment of loans and advances. The subsidiaries are distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any dividends or make advances or loans to the Company. Peoples Energy’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock may also be limited by existing or future regulatory restrictions or agreement covenants limiting the right of its subsidiaries to pay dividends on their common stock. Commodity price changes may affect the operating costs and competitive positions of the Company’s businesses, thereby adversely impacting its liquidity and results of operations. The Company’s energy businesses are sensitive to changes in natural gas, oil, electricity and other commodity prices. Any changes could affect the prices these businesses charge, their operating costs and the competitive position of their products and services. In the case of the Gas Distribution operations, costs for purchased gas and pipeline transportation and storage services are fully recovered through the Gas Charge, but increases in gas costs affect total retail prices and, therefore, the competitive position of the Company’s Gas Distribution businesses relative to electricity and other forms of energy. In addition, the timing and extent of high natural gas prices can materially adversely affect the Gas Distribution segment’s accounts receivable, provision for uncollectible accounts, fuel cost and interest expense. The Company is also subject to margin requirements in connection with use of derivative financial instruments and these requirements could escalate if prices move adversely. The Company’s earnings growth and the carrying value of the Company’s oil and gas producing properties depends in part upon the prices received for its natural gas and oil production. Natural gas and oil prices historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. The prices for natural gas and oil are subject to a variety of factors that are beyond the Company’s control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the level of consumer demand for, and the supply of, natural gas and oil, commodity processing, gathering and transportation availability, the level of imports of, and the price of, foreign natural gas and oil, the price and availability of alternative fuel sources, weather conditions, political conditions or hostilities in natural gas and oil producing regions. Further, because approximately 93% of the Company’s proved reserves at September 30, 2005, were natural gas reserves, the Company is substantially more sensitive to changes in natural gas prices than to changes in oil prices. Declines in natural gas and oil prices would not only reduce revenue, but could reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that can be produced economically and, as a result, could adversely affect the financial results of the Oil and Gas Production segment. A significant decline in natural gas and oil prices could result in a downward revision of the Company’s reserves and a write-down of the carrying value of natural gas and oil properties, that would negatively impact the Company’s net income and stockholders’ equity. Realized commodity price changes are impacted by gains and losses associated with the Company’s use of derivative financial instruments. To the extent the Company hedges commodity price exposure it forgoes the benefits it would otherwise experience if commodity prices change in the Company’s favor. Peoples Energy 14 Table of Contents The Company’s use of derivative financial instruments could result in earnings volatility and financial losses. Some of the Company’s subsidiaries use derivative financial instruments, including futures, swaps, collars and option contracts either traded on exchanges or executed over-the-counter with natural gas and power merchants as well as financial institutions, to hedge commodity price and interest rate risk. Fluctuating commodity prices could cause revenues, net income and cash requirements of the Company to be volatile due to the use of financial instruments that are not perfectly matched to the exposure (which may result from the nature of the derivative instrument used or as a result of a discontinued physical transaction), or if the Company’s derivative instruments and hedging transactions fail to qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. The Company may also incur financial losses if counterparties fail to perform under these instruments. For additional information concerning the use of derivatives, see Note 1J of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company’s operating results may be adversely affected by mild weather. The Company’s Gas Distribution businesses have historically delivered less natural gas, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder than normal. Mild weather in the future could diminish the Company’s revenues and results of operations and harm its financial condition. Although the Company may from time to time utilize weather insurance or financial weather derivatives to manage this risk, such measures result in the Company incurring costs and expose the Company to the credit risk of the counterparties in such transactions and, moreover, there can be no assurance that such measures will fully protect the Company from the effects of mild weather. (See Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Weather Risk.) The Company’s Gas Distribution subsidiaries depend on storage and transportation services purchased from interstate pipelines and on a storage field owned by Peoples Gas to meet their customers’ gas requirements. Peoples Gas and North Shore Gas meet a significant percentage of their customers’ peak day, seasonal and annual gas requirements through withdrawals, pursuant to contracts, from storage facilities owned and operated by interstate pipelines and through deliveries of gas transported on interstate pipelines with which they or their gas suppliers have contracts. Peoples Gas and North Shore Gas each contracts with multiple pipelines for these services, and it has gas supply contracts with multiple suppliers. If a pipeline were to fail to perform storage or transportation service, including for reasons of force majeure, on a peak day or other day with high volume gas requirements, Peoples Gas’ and North Shore Gas’ ability to meet all their customers’ gas requirements may be impaired unless or until alternative supply arrangements were put in place. Likewise, Peoples Gas plans on meeting approximately 40% of its peak day requirements from its own storage field. If that storage field, or the Peoples Gas-owned transmission pipeline used to transport storage gas to the market, were to be out of service for any reason, this could impair Peoples Gas’ ability to meet its customers’ full requirements on a peak day. Also, North Shore Gas purchases a storage service from Peoples Gas, and its ability to serve its customers could be adversely affected by failures at Peoples Gas’ storage field. The Company’s operations are subject to operational hazards and uninsured risks. The Company’s Gas Distribution, Oil and Gas Production, Power Generation, and Midstream Services operations are subject to the inherent risks normally associated with those operations, including pipeline ruptures, damage caused by excavators, explosions, release of toxic substances, fires, adverse weather conditions, and other hazards, each of which could result in damage to or destruction of the Company’s facilities or damages to persons and property. In addition, the Company’s operations face possible risks associated with acts of intentional harm on these assets. The nature of the risks is such that some liabilities could exceed the Company’s insurance policy limits, or, as in the case of environmental fines and penalties, cannot be insured. As a result, the Company could incur substantial costs that could adversely affect our future results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. A substantial portion of the Company’s oil and gas production is transported on or processed by third party pipelines and processing plants. Those pipelines and processing plants are subject to the same risks. The Company’s oil and gas producing operations involve many risks associated with estimates and assumptions used in making capital expenditure decisions. In addition to the operational risks described above, the Company’s oil and gas drilling operations are also subject to the risk of not encountering commercially productive reservoirs and the Company may not recover all or any portion of its investment in those wells. Drilling for natural gas and oil can be unprofitable, not only because of dry holes but also due to wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit at then realized prices after deducting drilling, operating, production taxes and other costs. In addition, estimating quantities of proved natural gas and oil reserves is a complex process that involves significant interpretations of technical data and assumptions that result in reserve estimates being inherently Peoples Energy 15 Table of Contents imprecise. The Company utilizes a 10% discount factor when estimating the value of its reserves, as prescribed by the SEC, and this may not necessarily represent the most appropriate discount factor, given actual interest rates and risks to which the Company’s production business or the natural gas and oil industry, in general, are subject. Any significant variations from the interpretations or assumptions used in the estimates or changes of conditions could cause the estimated quantities and net present value of the Company’s reserves to differ materially from amounts disclosed in this document. The natural gas and oil reserve data included in this document represent the Company’s best estimates. The Company uses outside reservoir engineers to provide an analysis of reserves and future production. These analyses are the basis for the Company’s reserve estimates. Investors should not assume that the present values referred to in this document represent the current market value of the Company’s estimated natural gas and oil reserves. The timing of the production and the expenses from development and production of natural gas and oil properties will affect both the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves and their present value. The agencies that regulate the Company’s businesses and their customers affect profitability and potential regulatory changes may adversely affect the Company’s businesses due to reductions in revenues or increased capital expenditures. The Company’s utility subsidiaries are subject to the jurisdiction of and regulation by the Commission, which has general supervisory and regulatory powers over practically all phases of the public utility business in Illinois, including rates and charges, issuance of securities, services and facilities, systems of accounts, investments, safety standards, transactions with affiliated interests and other matters. The utility subsidiaries intend to file a petition in the near future with the Commission requesting an increase in rates for service. Recently, credit rating agencies have issued negative alerts on some Illinois utilities, citing as a concern a heightened level of politicizing of the regulatory process in Illinois, particularly with regard to electric utilities. If Peoples Gas’ and North Shore Gas’ tariff rates were reduced in a future proceeding, or if the Commission denied recovery of certain costs presently allowed to be recovered through rates the profitability of the utilities’ businesses could be reduced. The utility subsidiaries and Peoples Energy Resources are also subject to U.S. Department of Transportation rules applicable to owners and operators of certain pipeline facilities. Regulatory requirements relating to the integrity of these pipelines require capital spending in order to maintain compliance with these requirements. Any additional laws or regulations that are enacted could significantly increase the amount of these expenditures. Peoples Gas’ and Peoples Energy Resources’ midstream gas services that are reflected in the Midstream Services segment are regulated by the FERC. Additional or different regulations imposed by the FERC could affect the profitability of the Midstream Services segment. The Company’s Gas Distribution and Power Generation businesses are also subject to costly and increasingly stringent environmental regulations. The cost of future environmental compliance could be significant. An adverse decision in proceedings before the Commission concerning the prudence review of the Company’s gas purchases could require a significant refund obligation. For each utility subsidiary, the Commission conducts annual proceedings regarding the reconciliation of revenues from the Gas Charge and related gas costs. In these proceedings, the accuracy of the reconciliation of revenues and costs is reviewed and the prudence of gas costs recovered through the Gas Charge is examined by interested parties. If the Commission were to find that the reconciliation was inaccurate or any gas costs were imprudently incurred, the Commission would order the utility to refund the affected amount to customers through subsequent Gas Charge filings. Proceedings regarding Peoples Gas and North Shore Gas for fiscal 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005 costs are currently pending before the Commission. The outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. In September 2005, the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) in the Peoples Gas 2001 gas cost reconciliation case issued a proposed order which recommends a $118.6 million refund to customers. There are additional filings and motions that will take place prior to the Commission issuing a final order, and the Commission’s order may be appealed to the state appellate court by the Company or the intervenors in the proceeding. The Company filed its exceptions and replies to exceptions to the proposed order in October 2005. The Commission could render an order at any time. One intervenor and the Commission Staff filed testimony requesting disallowances in the North Shore Gas proceeding. The ALJ has not yet issued a proposed order in the 2001 North Shore Gas reconciliation case. For more information regarding the Gas Charge reconciliation proceedings, see Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Peoples Energy 16 Table of Contents A change in the Commission’s approved rate mechanisms for recovery of environmental remediation costs at former manufactured gas sites of the Company’s subsidiaries, or adverse decisions with respect to the prudence of costs actually incurred, could result in the Company recognizing significant deferred liabilities. As described more fully in Note 6A of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company’s subsidiaries are accruing liabilities and deferring costs (recorded as regulatory assets) incurred in connection with the subsidiaries’ former manufactured gas sites, including related legal expenses, pending recovery through rates or from other entities. At September 30, 2005, regulatory assets of $315 million have been recorded. This amount reflects the net amount of (1) costs incurred to date, (2) carrying costs, (3) amounts recovered from insurance companies, other entities and from customers, and (4) management’s best estimates of the costs the utilities will spend in the future for investigating and remediating the manufactured gas sites ($282 million for the Company on a consolidated basis). Management has recorded liabilities for the amounts described in clause (4) of the preceding sentence. Management believes that any such costs that are not recoverable from other entities or from insurance carriers are recoverable through rates for utility services under Commission-approved mechanisms for the recovery of prudently incurred costs. A change in these rate recovery mechanisms, however, or a decision by the Commission that some or all of these costs were not prudently incurred, could result in the present recognition as expense of some or all of these costs. An inability to access financial markets could affect the execution of the Company’s business plan. The Company relies on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flows from its operations. Management believes that the Company and its subsidiaries will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. However, certain disruptions outside of the Company’s control may increase its cost of borrowing or restrict its ability to access one or more financial markets. Such disruptions could include an economic downturn, the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company or downgrades to the Company’s credit ratings. Restrictions on the Company’s ability to access financial markets may affect its ability to execute its business plan as scheduled. 