ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS The following section discloses all known material risks that we face. However, it does not include risks that may arise in the future that are yet unknown nor existing risks that we do not judge material to the presentation of our financial statements. If any of the events or circumstances described as risk below actually occurs, our business, results of operations and/or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Pep Boys We may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our long-term strategic plan, which we update annually, includes numerous initiatives to increase sales, enhance our margins and increase our return on invested capital in order to increase our earnings and cash flow. If these initiatives are unsuccessful, or if we are unable to implement the initiatives efficiently and effectively, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Successful implementation of our business strategy also depends on factors specific to the automotive aftermarket industry, many of which may be beyond our control (see "Risks Related to Our Industry"). If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations, our liquidity will suffer and we may be unable to satisfy our obligations. We require significant capital to fund our business. While we believe we have the ability to sufficiently fund our planned operations and capital expenditures for the next fiscal year, circumstances could arise that would materially affect our liquidity. For example, cash flows from our operations could be affected by changes in consumer spending habits or the failure to maintain favorable vendor payment terms or our inability to successfully implement sales growth initiatives. We may be unsuccessful in securing alternative financing when needed, on terms that we consider acceptable, or at all. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences to your investment in our securities, including the following risks: •our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired in the future; •a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of rent and the principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes; •our failure to comply with financial and operating restrictions placed on us and our subsidiaries by our credit facilities could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business or our prospects; and •if we are substantially more leveraged than some of our competitors, we might be at a competitive disadvantage to those competitors that have lower debt service obligations and significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we do. 11 Table of Contents We depend on our relationships with our vendors and a disruption of these relationships or of our vendors' operations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business depends on developing and maintaining productive relationships with our vendors. Many factors outside our control may harm these relationships. For example, financial difficulties that some of our vendors may face may increase the cost of the products we purchase from them or may interrupt our source of supply. In addition, our failure to promptly pay, or order sufficient quantities of inventory from our vendors may increase the cost of products we purchase or may lead to vendors refusing to sell products to us at all. Some of the most important vendor relationships that we maintain are with our tire vendors. Recently, due to industry-wide supply constraints, the Company has experienced some difficulty in obtaining the full amount of its desired tire supply from its current vendors and, accordingly, is pursuing relationships with supplemental vendors. A disruption of our vendor relationships or a disruption in our vendors' operations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We depend on our senior management team and our other personnel, and we face substantial competition for qualified personnel. Our success depends in part on the efforts of our senior management team. Our continued success will also depend upon our ability to retain existing, and attract additional, qualified field personnel to meet our needs. We face substantial competition, both from within and outside of the automotive aftermarket to retain and attract qualified personnel. In addition, we believe that the number of qualified automotive service technicians in the industry is generally insufficient to meet demand. We are subject to environmental laws and may be subject to environmental liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on us in the future. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and governmental regulations relating to the operation of our business, including those governing the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances contained in the products we sell and use in our service bays, the recycling of batteries, tires and used lubricants, the ownership and operation of real property and the sale of small engine merchandise. When we acquire or dispose of real property or enter into financings secured by real property, we undertake investigations that may reveal soil and/or groundwater contamination at the subject real property. All such known contamination has either been remediated, or is in the process of being remediated. Any costs expected to be incurred related to such contamination are either covered by insurance or financial reserves provided for in the consolidated financial statements. However, there exists the possibility of additional soil and/or groundwater contamination on our real property where we have not undertaken an investigation. A failure by us to comply with environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on us. 12 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Our industry is highly competitive, and price competition in some segments of the automotive aftermarket or a loss of trust in our participation in the "do-it-for-me" market, could cause a material decline in our revenues and earnings. The automotive aftermarket retail and service industry is highly competitive and subjects us to a wide variety of competitors. We compete primarily with the following types of businesses in each segment of the automotive aftermarket: Retail Do-It-Yourself •automotive parts and accessories stores; •automobile dealers that supply manufacturer replacement parts and accessories; and •mass merchandisers and wholesale clubs that sell automotive products and select non-automotive merchandise that appeals to automotive "Do-It-Yourself" customers, such as generators, power tools and canopies. Commercial •mass merchandisers, wholesalers and jobbers (some of which are associated with national parts distributors or associations). Service Do-It-For-Me •regional and local full service automotive repair shops; •automobile dealers that provide repair and maintenance services; •national and regional (including franchised) tire retailers that provide additional automotive repair and maintenance services; and •national and regional (including franchised) specialized automotive (such as oil change, brake and transmission) repair facilities that provide additional automotive repair and maintenance services. Tires •national and regional (including franchised) tire retailers; and •mass merchandisers and wholesale clubs that sell tires. A number of our competitors have more financial resources, are more geographically diverse, have a higher geographic market concentration or have better name recognition than we do, which might place us at a competitive disadvantage to those competitors. Because we seek to offer competitive prices, if our competitors reduce their prices we may also be forced to reduce our prices, which could cause a material decline in our revenues and earnings. With respect to the service labor category, the majorities of consumers are unfamiliar with their vehicle's mechanical operation and, as a result, often select a service provider based on trust. Potential occurrences of negative publicity associated with the Pep Boys brand, the products we sell or installation or repairs performed in our service bays, whether or not factually accurate, could cause 13 Table of Contents consumers to lose confidence in our products and services in the short or long term, and cause them to choose our competitors for their automotive service needs. Vehicle miles driven may decrease, resulting in a decline of our revenues and negatively affecting our results of operations. Our industry depends on the number of vehicle miles driven. Factors that may cause the number of vehicle miles and our revenues and our results of operations to decrease include: •the weather—as vehicle maintenance may be deferred during periods of inclement weather; •the economy—as during periods of poor economic conditions, customers may defer vehicle maintenance or repair, and during periods of good economic conditions, consumers may opt to purchase new vehicles rather than service the vehicles they currently own and replace worn or damaged parts; •gas prices—as increases in gas prices may deter consumers from using their vehicles; and •travel patterns—as changes in travel patterns may cause consumers to rely more heavily on mass transportation. Economic factors affecting consumer spending habits may continue, resulting in a decline in revenues and may negatively impact our business. Many economic and other factors outside our control, including consumer confidence, consumer spending levels, employment levels, consumer debt levels and inflation, as well as the availability of consumer credit, affect consumer spending habits. A significant deterioration in the global financial markets and economic environment, recessions or an uncertain economic outlook could adversely affect consumer spending habits and can result in lower levels of economic activity. The domestic and international political situation also affects consumer confidence. Any of these events and factors could cause consumers to curtail spending, especially with respect to our more discretionary merchandise offerings, such as automotive accessories, tools and personal transportation products. During fiscal 2009, there was significant deterioration in the global financial markets and economic environment, which negatively impacted consumer spending and our revenues. While the economic climate improved somewhat in fiscal 2010, consumer spending has not returned to pre-recession levels. If the economy does not continue to strengthen, or if our efforts to counteract the impacts of these trends are not sufficiently effective, our revenues could decline, negatively affecting our results of operations. Consolidation among our competitors may negatively impact our business. Our industry has experienced consolidation over time. If this trend continues or if our competitors are able to achieve efficiencies in their mergers, the Company may face greater competitive pressures in the market in which they operate. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 