ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS The following section discloses all known material risks that we face. However, it does not include risks that may arise in the future that are yet unknown nor existing risks that we do not judge material to the presentation of our financial statements. If any of the events or circumstances described as risk below actually occurs, our business, results of operations and/or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Pep Boys We may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our long-term strategic plan, which we update annually, includes numerous initiatives including our "Road Ahead" remodels and store growth programs to increase sales, enhance our margins and increase our return on invested capital in order to increase our earnings and cash flow. If these initiatives are unsuccessful, or if we are unable to implement the initiatives efficiently and effectively, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Successful implementation of our business strategy also depends on factors specific to the automotive aftermarket industry, many of which may be beyond our control (see "Risks Related to Our Industry"). If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations, our liquidity will suffer and we may be unable to satisfy our obligations. We require significant capital to fund our business. While we believe we have the ability to sufficiently fund our planned operations and capital expenditures for the next fiscal year, circumstances could arise that would materially affect our liquidity. For example, cash flows from our operations could be affected by changes in consumer spending habits or the failure to maintain favorable supplier payment terms or our inability to successfully implement sales growth initiatives. We may be unsuccessful in securing alternative financing when needed, on terms that we consider acceptable, or at all. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences on investments in our securities, including the following risks: •our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired in the future; •a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of rent and the principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes; •our failure to comply with financial and operating restrictions placed on us and our subsidiaries by our credit facilities could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business or our prospects; and •if we are substantially more leveraged than some of our competitors, we might be at a competitive disadvantage to those competitors that have lower debt service obligations and significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we do. We depend on our relationships with our suppliers and a disruption of these relationships or of our suppliers' operations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business depends on developing and maintaining productive relationships with our suppliers. Many factors outside our control may harm these relationships. For example, financial difficulties that some of our suppliers may face could increase the cost of the products we purchase from them or might interrupt our source of supply. In addition, our failure to promptly pay or order sufficient quantities of inventory from our suppliers may increase the cost of products we purchase or could lead to suppliers refusing to sell products to us at all. A disruption of our supplier relationships or a disruption in our suppliers' operations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We depend on our senior management team and our other personnel, and we face substantial competition for qualified personnel. Our success depends in part on the efforts of our senior management team. Our continued success will also depend on our ability to retain existing, and attract additional, qualified field personnel to meet our needs. We face substantial competition, both from within and outside of the automotive aftermarket, to retain and attract qualified personnel. In addition, we believe that the number of qualified automotive service technicians in the industry is generally insufficient to meet demand. 11 Table of Contents We are subject to environmental laws and may be subject to environmental liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on us in the future. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and governmental regulations relating to the operation of our business, including those governing the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances contained in the products we sell and use in our service bays, the recycling of batteries, tires and used lubricants, the ownership and operation of real property and the sale of small engine merchandise. When we acquire or dispose of real property or enter into financings secured by real property, we undertake investigations that may reveal soil and/or groundwater contamination at the subject real property. All such known contamination has either been remediated, or is in the process of being remediated. Any costs expected to be incurred related to such contamination are either covered by insurance or financial reserves provided for in the consolidated financial statements. However, there exists the possibility of additional soil and/or groundwater contamination on our real property where we have not undertaken an investigation. A failure by us to comply with environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on us. A breach of our security could compromise customer, employee or Company information and could harm our reputation, lead to substantial additional costs, or possible litigation. In the course of business, personal information about our customers and employees is stored both electronically and physically. We have taken reasonable and appropriate steps to safeguard this information. If this information is compromised, however, our reputation could be damaged resulting in lost business, we could incur additional costs in remediating the issue, or we could face possible regulatory action. The regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is constantly evolving, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs. There is no guarantee that the procedures we have implemented are adequate to safeguard all confidential information, and a breach of this information could potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Business interruptions may negatively impact our store hours, operability of our computer systems and the availability and cost of merchandise which may adversely impact our sales and profitability. War or acts of terrorism, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes or other natural disasters, or the threat of any of these calamities or others, may have a negative impact on our ability to obtain merchandise to sell in our stores, result in certain of our stores being closed for an extended period of time, negatively affect the lives of our customers or associates, or otherwise negatively impact our operations. Some of our merchandise is imported from other countries. If imported goods become difficult or impossible to import into the United States, and if we cannot obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our sales and profit margins may be negatively affected. In the event that commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed, our business may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty receiving merchandise from our suppliers and shipping it to our stores. Terrorist attacks, war in the Middle East, or insurrection involving any oil producing country would likely result in an abrupt increase in the price of crude oil, gasoline, diesel fuel and other types of energy. Such price increases would increase the cost of doing business for us and our suppliers, and also would negatively impact our customers' disposable income and have an adverse impact on our business, sales, profit margins and results of operations. We rely extensively on our computer systems and the systems of our business partners to manage inventory, process transactions and report results. Any such systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunication failures, computer viruses, security breaches and catastrophic events. If our computer systems or those of our business partners fail we may experience 12 Table of Contents loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to process transactions and manage inventory. Any such loss, if widespread or extended, could adversely affect the operation of our business and our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry Our industry is highly competitive, and price competition in some segments of the automotive aftermarket, or a loss of trust in our participation in the "do-it-for-me" market, could cause a material decline in our revenues and earnings. The automotive aftermarket retail and service industry is highly competitive and subjects us to a wide variety of competitors. We compete primarily with the following types of businesses in each segment of the automotive aftermarket: Retail Do-It-Yourself •automotive parts and accessories stores; •automobile dealers that supply manufacturer replacement parts and accessories; •mass merchandisers and wholesale clubs that sell automotive products and select non-automotive merchandise that appeals to automotive "Do-It-Yourself" customers, such as generators, power tools and canopies; and •online retailers Commercial •mass merchandisers, wholesalers and jobbers (some of which are associated with national parts distributors or associations). Service Do-It-For-Me •regional and local full service automotive repair shops; •automobile dealers that provide repair and maintenance services; •national and regional (including franchised) tire retailers that provide additional automotive repair and maintenance services; and •national and regional (including franchised) specialized automotive (such as oil change, brake and transmission) repair facilities that provide additional automotive repair and maintenance services. Tires •national and regional (including franchised) tire retailers; and •mass merchandisers and wholesale clubs that sell tires. A number of our competitors have more financial resources, are more geographically diverse, have a higher geographic market concentration or have better name recognition than we do, which might place us at a competitive disadvantage to those competitors. Because we seek to offer competitive prices, if our competitors reduce their prices we may also be forced to reduce our prices, which could cause a material decline in our revenues and earnings. 13 Table of Contents With respect to the service labor category, the majority of consumers are unfamiliar with their vehicle's mechanical operation and, as a result, often select a service provider based on trust. Potential occurrences of negative publicity associated with the Pep Boys brand, the products we sell or installation or repairs performed in our service bays, whether or not factually accurate, could cause consumers to lose confidence in our products and services in the short or long term, and cause them to choose our competitors for their automotive service needs. Vehicle miles driven may decrease, resulting in a decline of our revenues and negatively affect our results of operations. Our industry is significantly influenced by the number of vehicle miles driven. Factors that may cause the number of vehicle miles and our revenues and our results of operations to decrease include: •the weather—as vehicle maintenance may be deferred during periods of inclement weather; •the economy—as during periods of poor economic conditions, customers may defer vehicle maintenance or repair and drive less due to unemployment, and during periods of good economic conditions, consumers may opt to purchase new vehicles rather than service the vehicles they currently own and replace worn or damaged parts; •gas prices—as increases in gas prices may deter consumers from using their vehicles; and •travel patterns—as changes in travel patterns may cause consumers to rely more heavily on mass transportation. Economic factors affecting consumer spending habits may continue, resulting in a decline in revenues and could negatively impact our business. Many economic and other factors outside our control, including consumer confidence, consumer spending levels, employment levels, consumer debt levels and inflation, as well as the availability of consumer credit, affect consumer spending habits. A significant deterioration in the global financial markets and economic environment, recessions or an uncertain economic outlook could adversely affect consumer spending habits and result in lower levels of economic activity. The domestic and international political situation also affects consumer confidence. Any of these events and factors could cause consumers to curtail spending, especially with respect to our more discretionary merchandise offerings, such as automotive accessories, tools and personal transportation products. During fiscal 2009, there was significant deterioration in the global financial markets and economic environment, which negatively impacted consumer spending and our revenues. While the economic climate improved somewhat in fiscal 2012, consumer spending has not returned to pre-recession levels. If the economy does not continue to strengthen, or if our efforts to counteract the impacts of these trends are not sufficiently effective, our revenues could decline, negatively affecting our results of operations. Consolidation among our competitors may negatively impact our business. Our industry has experienced consolidation over time. If this trend continues or if our competitors are able to achieve efficiencies in their mergers, the Company may face greater competitive pressures in the markets in which we operate. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 14 Table of Contents 