RISK FACTORS Our business faces significant risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. If any of the events or circumstances described as risks below actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Pep Boys If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations, our liquidity will suffer and we may be unable to satisfy our obligations. We require significant capital to fund our business. While we believe we have the ability to sufficiently fund our planned operations and capital expenditures for the balance of fiscal year 2005, circumstances could arise that would materially affect our liquidity. For example, cash flows from our operations could be affected by changes in consumer spending habits or the failure to maintain favorable vendor payment terms or our inability to successfully implement sales growth initiatives. We may be unsuccessful in securing alternative financing when needed, on terms that we consider acceptable, or at all. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences to your investment in our securities, including the following risks: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired in the future; • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes; • our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants governing our debt, which, among other things, require us to maintain financial ratios and limit our ability to incur additional debt and sell assets, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business or our prospects; and • if we are substantially more leveraged than some of our competitors, we might be at a competitive disadvantage to those competitors that have lower debt service obligations and significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we do. 5 We depend on our relationships with our vendors and a disruption of these relationships or of our vendors’ operations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business depends on developing and maintaining productive relationships with our vendors. Many factors outside our control may harm these relationships. For example, financial difficulties that some of our vendors may face may increase the cost of the products we purchase from them. In addition, our failure to promptly pay, or order sufficient quantities of inventory from our vendors may increase the cost of products we purchase or may lead to vendors refusing to sell products to us at all. The recent trend towards consolidation among automotive parts suppliers may also disrupt our relationships with some vendors. A disruption of our vendor relationships or a disruption in our vendors’ operations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We depend on our senior management team and our other personnel, and we face substantial competition for qualified personnel. Our success depends on the efforts of our senior management team. Our continued success will also depend upon our ability to retain existing, and attract additional, qualified field personnel to meet our needs. We face substantial competition, both from within and outside of the automotive aftermarket to retain and attract qualified personnel. In addition, we believe that the number of qualified automotive service technicians in the industry is generally insufficient to meet demand. We face possible adverse changes in tax laws. From time to time changes in state and local tax laws or regulations are enacted, which may increase our tax liability. The shortfalls in tax revenues for states and municipalities in recent years have led and may continue to lead to an increase in the frequency and scope of such changes and to increases in the number of tax audits initiated by such jurisdictions, particularly with respect to large and well-known retailers. We also face the risk that tax authorities may challenge certain aspects of our acquisition, operation or disposition of properties. If such challenges are successful, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets or income and may be assessed interest and penalties on such additional taxes. These increased tax costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make interest payments to holders of the notes. We are subject to environmental laws and may be subject to environmental liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on us in the future. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and governmental regulations relating to the operation of our business, including those governing the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances contained in the products we sell and use in our service bays, the recycling of batteries, tires and used lubricants, and the ownership and operation of real property. As a result of investigations undertaken in connection with a number of our store acquisitions and financings, we are aware that soil or groundwater may be contaminated at some of our properties. Any failure by us to comply with environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on us. Risks Related to Our Industry Our industry is highly competitive, and price competition in some categories of the automotive aftermarket or a loss of trust in our participation in the “do-it-for-me” market, could cause a material decline in our revenues and earnings. The automotive aftermarket retail and service industry is highly competitive and subjects us to a wide variety of competitors. We compete primarily with the following types of businesses in each category of the automotive aftermarket: 6 Do-It-Yourself Retail • automotive parts and accessories stores; • automobile dealers that supply manufacturer replacement parts and accessories; and • mass merchandisers and wholesale clubs that sell automotive products. Do-It-For-Me Service Labor • regional and local full service automotive repair shops; • automobile dealers that provide repair and maintenance services; • national and regional (including franchised) tire retailers that provide additional automotive repair and maintenance services; and • national and regional (including franchised) specialized automotive (such as exhaust, brake and transmission) repair facilities that provide additional automotive repair and maintenance services. Installed Merchandise/Commercial • mass merchandisers, wholesalers and jobbers (some of which are associated with national parts distributors or associations). Tire Sales • national and regional (including franchised) tire retailers; and • mass merchandisers and wholesale clubs that sell tires. A number of our competitors have more financial resources, are more geographically diverse or have better name recognition than we do, which might place us at a competitive disadvantage to those competitors. Because we seek to offer competitive prices, if our competitors reduce their prices we may also be forced to reduce our prices, which could cause a material decline in our revenues and earnings and hinder our ability to service our debt. With respect to the service labor category, the majority of consumers are unfamiliar with their vehicle’s mechanical operation and, as a result, often select a service provider based on trust. Potential occurrences of negative publicity associated with the Pep Boys brand, the products we sell or installation or repairs performed in our service bays, whether or not factually accurate, could cause consumers to lose confidence in our products and services in the short or long term, and cause them to choose our competitors for their automotive service needs. Vehicle miles driven may decrease, resulting in a decline of our revenues and negatively affecting our results of operations. Our industry depends on the number of vehicle miles driven. Factors that may cause the number of vehicle miles and our revenues and our results of operations to decrease include: • the weather—as vehicle maintenance may be deferred during periods of inclement weather; • the economy—as during periods of poor economic conditions, customers may defer vehicle maintenance or repair, and during periods of good economic conditions, consumers may opt to purchase new vehicles rather than service the vehicles they currently own and replace worn or damaged parts; • gas prices—as increases in gas prices may deter consumers from using their vehicles; and 7 • travel patterns—as changes in travel patterns may cause consumers to rely more heavily on train and airplane transportation. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements contained herein, including in Item 1 “Business” and Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words “guidance,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “forecasts” and similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include management’s expectations regarding future financial performance, automotive aftermarket trends, levels of competition, business development activities, future capital expenditures, financing sources and availability and the effects of regulation and litigation. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our expectations will be achieved. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements due to factors beyond our control, including the strength of the national and regional economies, retail and commercial consumers’ ability to spend, the health of the various sectors of the automotive aftermarket, the weather in geographical regions with a high concentration of our stores, competitive pricing, the location and number of competitors’ stores, product and labor costs and the additional factors described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). We assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements that become untrue because of subsequent events. SEC REPORTING We electronically file certain documents with, or furnish such documents to, the SEC, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, along with any related amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. From time-to-time, we may also file registration and related statements pertaining to equity or debt offerings. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information regarding the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file or furnish documents electronically with the SEC. We provide free electronic access to our annual, quarterly and current reports (and all amendments to these reports) on our Internet website, www.pepboys.com. These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials with or to the SEC. Information on our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report, and any references to our website herein are intended as inactive textual references only. You may also contact our investor relations department at 215-430-9720 for copies of these reports free of charge. Our Code of Ethics, the Board of Directors Code of Conduct and the charters of our audit, human resources and nominating and governance committees may be found under the About Pep Boys—Corporate Governance section of our website. A copy of the corporate governance materials is available upon written request. 8 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY The following table indicates the names, ages and tenures with the Company and positions (together with the year of election to such positions) of the executive officers of the Company: Name Age Tenure with Company Position with the Company and Date of Election to Position Lawrence N. Stevenson 48 1 year, 10 months Chairman since September 2004 andChief Executive Officer since May 2003 Harold L. Smith 54 1 year, 8 months Executive Vice President—Merchandising & Marketing since August 2003 Mark S. Bacon 41 1 month Senior Vice President—Retail Operations since February 2005 Mark L. Page 48 29 years Senior Vice President—Service Center Operations since February 2005 Harry F. Yanowitz 38 1 year, 9 months Senior Vice President—Chief Financial Officer since August 2004 Lawrence N. Stevenson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, joined Pep Boys in May 2003 after having most recently served as the CEO of Chapters, Canada’s largest book retailer. Prior to his seven years at Chapters, Mr. Stevenson spent nine years with Bain & Company, which included serving as the Managing Director of their Canadian operation. Harold L. Smith, Executive Vice President—Merchandising & Marketing, joined the Company in August 2003 after most recently serving in such capacity for CSK Auto. Prior to CSK Auto, Mr. Smith held various executive positions with companies such as Bass Pro Shops and The Home Depot. Mark S. Bacon, Senior Vice President—Retail Operations, joined the Company in February 2005 after most recently serving as Senior Vice President, Sales and Operations for Staples. Prior to joining Staples, Mr. Bacon held various operations positions with companies such as Wal-Mart and Hills Stores. Mark L. Page was named Senior Vice President—Service Center Operations in February 2005 and has been a Senior Vice President of the Company since March 1993. Since June 1975, Mr. Page has served the Company in various store operations positions of increasing seniority. Harry F. Yanowitz was named Senior Vice President—Chief Financial Officer in August 2004. Mr. Yanowitz joined the Company in June 2003 as Senior Vice President—Strategy & Business Development after having most recently served as Managing Director of Sherpa Investments, a private investment firm. Previously, he was President of Chapters during Mr. Stevenson’s tenure. Prior to joining Chapters, Mr. Yanowitz was a consultant with Bain & Company. Each of the officers serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors of the Company. 9 