Item 1A. Risk Factors. Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” including statements concerning the future of our industry, business strategy, continued acceptance of our services, market growth and dependence on significant customers. These statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “continue” or other similar words. When considering forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in this Form 10-K. We are a “smaller reporting” company as defined by Regulation S-K and, as such, we are not required to provide the information contained in this Item pursuant to Regulation S-K. Accordingly, the risks described in this Form 10-K are not intended to be all-inclusive and are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, not currently known to us or that do not currently appear to be material, may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results in the future. The risk factors noted below and other factors noted throughout this Form 10-K could cause our actual financial condition or results to differ significantly from those contained in any forward-looking statement. We may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred continuing operating losses and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. In order for us to achieve and maintain consistent profitability from our operations, we must achieve revenue above current levels. Operating expenses may increase as we attempt to expand our services and to the extent that we acquire other businesses and services. As a result, we may need to increase our revenue significantly to achieve sustainable profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve sustainable profitability. 3 Our growth strategy assumes that we will make targeted strategic acquisitions. A key feature of our growth strategy is strategic acquisitions. We may not be able to maintain our current rate of growth. If we fail to execute on this strategy, our revenues may not increase and our ability to achieve and sustain profitability will be impaired. An acquisition strategy is inherently risky. Some of the risks we may face in connection with acquisitions include: identifying appropriate targets; obtaining necessary financing in an efficient and timely fashion; negotiating terms that we believe are reasonable; integrating the operations, technologies, services and personnel of the acquired entities; and maintaining our focus on our existing business. We may not be able to identify any appropriate targets or acquire them on reasonable terms. Even if we make strategic acquisitions, we cannot assure investors that our future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Reductions in funding for governmental programs could substantially reduce our ability to be profitable. Substantially all of the services we offer are through government-sponsored programs. As a result, our ability to earn a profit is dependent, in large part, on continued funding for government programs at or above current levels. Future reimbursement rate levels for our services may be affected by continued government efforts to contain costs and/or federal and state budgetary restraints. Our efforts to expand our school staffing services may be impacted by opposition to the charter school movement. We view the expansion of our school staffing programs as an opportunity for growth in the upcoming year. However, educators, teachers unions and activist groups have raised opposition to various education initiatives designed to help charter schools expand in number and secure additional funding. If the creation of new charter schools or enrollment in charter schools is hindered, our ability to achieve growth in our programs may be affected. We may not be able to realize the benefits of our operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards. NOLs may be carried forward to offset federal and state taxable income in future years and eliminate income taxes otherwise payable on such taxable income. Based on current federal corporate income tax rates, our NOLs could provide a benefit to us, if fully utilized, of significant future tax savings. However, our ability to use these tax benefits in future years will depend upon the amount of our otherwise taxable income. If we do not have sufficient taxable income in future years to use the tax benefits before they expire, we will lose the benefit of these NOL carryfowards permanently. NOLs, if unutilized, will expire in fiscal years ending March 31, 2023 through March 31, 2032. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and has relatively low barriers to entry. Increased competition could result in margin erosion and loss of market share. Our competitors include professional firms, privately held companies, schools and not-for-profit organizations and associations. Many of our existing competitors have greater financial resources, larger market share, broader and more diverse professional staffs and/or lower cost structures than we do, which may enable them to establish a stronger competitive position than we have. If we fail to address competitive developments quickly and effectively, our ability to maintain our current market share and/or to expand our business may be affected. 4 We are dependent on our professional staff and we need to hire and retain skilled personnel to sustain and grow our business. Our success in recruiting and hiring large numbers of highly-skilled, licensed or otherwise authorized individuals to offer the multi-disciplinary services required by our customers is critical to providing high quality services. We cannot assure you we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the continuing growth of our business. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could materially adversely affect our ability to maintain and grow our business significantly. Our business is subject to the risk of customer concentration. Our revenue is concentrated within a limited number of customers throughout New York State; municipalities within New York State provide substantial and significant revenue. The continuation and renewal of our contracts are, among other things, contingent upon the availability of adequate Federal pass-through funding from the U.S. government. The loss of or significant reduction in government funding as a result of current constraints on the U.S. budget could result in a material decrease in our revenues, earnings and cash flows. This concentration of customers may also impact our overall exposure to credit risk, either positively or negatively, in that our customers may be similarly affected by changes in economic or other conditions in New York State. Additionally, since most of our revenue is generated under our contracts with municipalities within New York State, the non-renewal of any contracts or non-payment or significant delay in payment of invoices by any or all of such customers would likely have a material adverse effect upon our business. Revenue for our school staffing services may be materially affected by special education reform being implemented by the NYC DOE. The NYC DOE has modified the manner in which it intends to contract for future related services provided to school-age children with disabilities and delays. In addition to existing Requirements Agreements, the NYC DOE has created a new system of awarding contracts which creates a hierarchy of approved providers that modifies the method of referring cases to providers. We have submitted a formal response to the recent NYC DOE request for proposal and are currently awaiting a decision on whether or not we will be awarded a contract under the new system including what our designation will be under the such hierarchy system. Due to pricing competition, our proposed fees for services would be lower than our current rates and would result in lower gross margins for school staffing services performed for the NYC DOE. Although we believe we will be successful in our efforts to win our bid for a new contract, there is no guarantee that we will win a new contract. As a result, there could be a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results if we are not awarded a new contract. Our operating results are materially impacted by the seasonality of our business. Our business is impacted by seasonality with respect to the school year. We anticipate that our revenues will be at their lowest in the second quarter of our fiscal year (which include the months of July and August) when schools are traditionally not in session. During this period, we are faced with paying salaries for full-time staff that will be under-utilized. In addition, the timing of family vacations during the summer months also complicates the scheduling of services for EI services and for preschool children. As such, we recognize that the results of operations for the second quarterly period of our fiscal year may not be indicative of the results for any other quarter or for the full year. 5 Our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. On June 1, 2012, we received a deficiency letter from The Nasdaq Stock Market (“Nasdaq”) indicating that for the last 30 consecutive business days the Company’s common stock, par value $.01 (the “Shares”), had a closing bid price below the $1.00 minimum closing bid as required for continued listing set forth in Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). In accordance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we were provided a grace period of 180 calendar days, or until November 27, 2012, to regain compliance with this requirement. At this time, this notification has no effect on the listing of our Shares on The Nasdaq Capital Market. We can regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price rule if the bid price of our Shares closes at $1.00 or higher for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days during the initial 180 calendar day grace period, although Nasdaq may, in its discretion, require us to maintain a bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a period in excess of 10 consecutive business days before determining that we have demonstrated the ability to maintain long-term compliance. If compliance is not achieved by November 27, 2012, we may be eligible for an additional 180 calendar day grace period if we meet The Nasdaq Capital Market continued listing requirements for market value of publicly held shares and all other initial listing criteria as set forth in Nasdaq Listing Rule 5505 other than the minimum closing bid price requirement. If we are not eligible for such additional grace period, or it appears to the Staff of Nasdaq that we will not be able to regain compliance during the grace period, Nasdaq will provide written notice to the Company that its securities will be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market. At such time, we would be able to appeal the delisting determination to the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department which would incur additional expenditures. In the event of such delisting, trading, if any, in our Shares may then continue to be conducted in the non-Nasdaq over-the-counter market in what are commonly referred to as the electronic bulletin board and the ''pink sheets.’’ As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our Shares. In addition, we would be subject to a rule promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) that, if we fail to meet criteria set forth in such rule, imposes various requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities governed by the rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transactions prior to the sale. Consequently, the rule may have a material adverse effect on the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities, which may materially affect the ability of shareholders to sell our securities in the secondary market. A delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market would also make us ineligible to use Form S-3 to register a future sale of our Shares or to register the resale of our securities with the SEC, thereby making it more difficult and expensive for us to register our Shares or other securities and raise additional capital. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 