Item 1A. Risk Factors. Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” including statements concerning the future of our industry, business strategy, continued acceptance of our services, market growth, and dependence on significant customers. These statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “continue,” or other similar words. When considering forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in this Form 10-K. We are a “smaller reporting” company as defined by Regulation S-K and, as such, we are not required to provide the information contained in this Item pursuant to Regulation S-K. Accordingly, the risks described in this Form 10-K are not intended to be all-inclusive and are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, not currently known to us or that do not currently appear to be material, may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results in the future. The risk factors noted below and other factors noted throughout this Form 10-K could cause our actual financial condition or results to differ significantly from those contained in any forward-looking statement. 5 We may not be able to comply with all applicable government regulations. Currently, most EI providers in New York State, including our Company, are not in compliance with the existing laws governing the practice of these licensed professions. In the past, legislation has been introduced in the New York State Senate to amend the New York Education Law in relation to the practice of licensed professionals by EI companies and their employees and to repeal certain provisions of such related law thereto which currently prohibit corporate practice of certain licensed professions. Such legislation attempted to reconcile conflicting provisions of the New York Education Law and New York Public Health Law which contemplates that EI companies be organized to provide a full range of EI program services. We cannot assure that any future legislation will be enacted into law to resolve this matter and that we will be in substantial compliance with current laws and regulations. We also cannot assure that we will be able to comply with any future laws and regulations. To the extent that new regulations are adopted, we will be required to conform our activities in order to comply with such regulations. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and/or finances. We may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred continuing operating losses and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. In order for us to achieve and maintain consistent profitability from our operations, we must achieve revenue above current levels. Operating expenses may increase as we attempt to expand our services and to the extent that we acquire other businesses and services. As a result, we may need to increase our revenue significantly to achieve sustainable profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve sustainable profitability. Reductions in funding for governmental programs could substantially reduce our ability to be profitable. Substantially all of the services we offer are through government-sponsored programs. As a result, our ability to earn a profit is dependent, in large part, on continued funding for government programs at or above current levels. Future reimbursement rate levels for our services may be affected by continued government efforts to contain costs and/or federal and state budgetary restraints. Our efforts to expand our school staffing services may be impacted by opposition to the charter school movement. We view the expansion of our school staffing programs as an opportunity for growth in the upcoming year. However, educators, teachers unions and activist groups have raised opposition to various education initiatives designed to help charter schools expand in number and secure additional funding. If the creation of new charter schools or enrollment in charter schools is hindered, our ability to achieve growth in our programs may be affected. We may not be able to realize the benefits of our operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards. NOLs may be carried forward to offset federal and state taxable income in future years and eliminate income taxes otherwise payable on such taxable income. Based on current federal corporate income tax rates, our NOLs could provide a benefit to us, if fully utilized, of significant future tax savings. However, our ability to use these tax benefits in future years will depend upon the amount of our otherwise taxable income. If we do not have sufficient taxable income in future years to use the tax benefits before they 6 expire, we will lose the benefit of these NOL carryforwards permanently. NOLs, if unutilized, will expire in fiscal years ending March 31, 2023 through March 31, 2030. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and has relatively low barriers to entry. Increased competition could result in margin erosion and loss of market share. Our competitors include professional firms, privately held companies, schools and not-for-profit organizations and associations. Many of our existing competitors have greater financial resources, larger market share, broader and more diverse professional staffs and/or lower cost structures than we do, which may enable them to establish a stronger competitive position than we have. If we fail to address competitive developments quickly and effectively, our ability to maintain our current market share and/or to expand our business may be affected. We are dependent on our professional staff and we need to hire and retain skilled personnel to sustain and grow our business. Our success in recruiting and hiring large numbers of highly-skilled, licensed or otherwise authorized individuals to offer the multi-disciplinary services required is critical to providing high quality services. We cannot assure you we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the continuing growth of our business. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could materially adversely affect our ability to maintain and grow our business significantly. Our growth strategy assumes that we will make targeted strategic acquisitions. A key feature of our growth strategy is strategic acquisitions. We may not be able to maintain our current rate of growth. If we fail to execute on this strategy, our revenues may not increase and our ability to achieve and sustain profitability will be impaired. An acquisition strategy is inherently risky. Some of the risks we may face in connection with acquisitions include: identifying appropriate targets; obtaining necessary financing in an efficient and timely fashion; negotiating terms that we believe are reasonable; integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired entities; and maintaining our focus on our existing business. We may not be able to identify any appropriate targets or acquire them on reasonable terms. Even if we make strategic acquisitions, we cannot assure investors that our future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our business is subject to the risk of customer concentration. Our revenue is concentrated within a limited number of clients throughout New York State; municipalities within New York State provide substantial and significant revenue. The continuation and renewal of our contracts are, among other things, contingent upon the availability of adequate Federal pass-through funding from the U.S. government. The loss or significant reduction in government funding as a result of current constraints on the U.S. budget could result in a material decrease in our revenues, earnings and cash flows. This concentration of customers may also impact our overall exposure to credit risk, either positively or negatively, in that our customers may be similarly affected by changes in economic or other conditions in New York State. Additionally, since most of our revenue is generated under our contracts with municipalities within New York State, the non-renewal of any contracts or non-payment or significant delay in payment of invoices by any or all of such clients would likely have a material adverse effect upon our business. 7 Our operating results are materially impacted by the seasonality of our business. Our business is impacted by seasonality with respect to the school year. We anticipate that our revenue will be at its lowest in the second quarter of our fiscal year (which include the months of July and August) when schools are traditionally not in session. During this period, we are faced with paying salaries for full time staff that will be under-utilized. In addition, the timing of family vacations during the summer months also complicates the scheduling of services for EI services and for preschool children. As such, we recognize that the results of operations for the second quarterly period of our fiscal year may not be indicative of the results for any other quarter or for the full year. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our shares. As of March 31, 2010, based on current requirements and our public float, we were not required to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of SOX (“SOX 404”) which require our independent auditors to opine on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Under current law, and our current public float, we expect to be subject to this requirement for our fiscal year ending March 31, 2011. If we fail to correct any deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and adversely impact the trading price of our common stock. Our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. On March 1, 2010, we received a deficiency letter from The Nasdaq Stock Market (“Nasdaq”) indicating that for 30 consecutive business days the Company’s common stock, par value $.01 (the “Shares”), had a closing bid price below the $1.00 minimum closing bid as required for continued listing set forth in Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). In accordance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we were provided a grace period of 180 calendar days, or until August 30, 2010, to regain compliance with this requirement. At this time, this notification has no effect on the listing of our Shares on The Nasdaq Capital Market. We can regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price rule if the bid price of our Shares closes at $1.00 or higher for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days during the initial 180 calendar day grace period, although Nasdaq may, in its discretion, require us to maintain a bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a period in excess of 10 consecutive business days (but generally no more than 20 consecutive business days) before determining that we have demonstrated the ability to maintain long-term compliance. If compliance is not achieved by August 30, 2010, we may be eligible for an additional 180 calendar day grace period if we meet The Nasdaq Capital Market initial listing criteria as set forth in Nasdaq Listing Rule 5505 other than the minimum closing bid price requirement. If we are not eligible for such additional grace period, or do not regain compliance during any additional grace period, Nasdaq will provide written notice to the Company that its securities will be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market. At such time, we would be able to appeal the delisting determination to the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department. In the event of such delisting, trading, if any, in our Shares may then continue to be conducted in the non-Nasdaq over-the-counter market in what are commonly referred to as the electronic bulletin board and the ''pink sheets.’’ As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our Shares. In addition, we would be subject to a rule promulgated by the SEC that, if we fail to meet criteria set forth in such rule, imposes various requirements on broker- 8 dealers who sell securities governed by the rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transactions prior to the sale. Consequently, the rule may have a material adverse effect on the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities, which may materially affect the ability of shareholders to sell our securities in the secondary market. A delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market would also make us ineligible to use Form S-3 to register a future sale of our Shares or to register the resale of our securities with the SEC, thereby making it more difficult and expensive for us to register our Shares or other securities and raise additional capital. The price of our Shares has reflected a great deal of volatility, including a significant decrease over the past few years. The volatility may mean that, at times, our shareholders may be unable to resell their Shares at or above the price at which they acquired them. From April 1, 2008 to March 31, 2010, the price per share of our Shares has ranged from a high of $1.75 to a low of $0.23. The price of our Shares has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. The market value of our Shares has declined in the past, in part, due to our operating performance. In the future, broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our Shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. Recent declines in the market price of our Shares and in broad capital markets could affect our access to capital. As a result of any such declines, many shareholders have been or may become unable to resell their Shares at or above the price at which they acquired them. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 