ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Factors Affecting the Future Operations On April 9, 2006, Verilink Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiary, Larscom Inc., filed petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy laws in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Alabama (the “Court”). In May 2006, an order, as amended, was entered by the Court authorizing the sale of our business operations in an auction process, which provided, among other things, (i) for the sale of substantially all the assets of the company for all cash consideration; (ii) for a minimum $7.5 million initial bid; (iii) that initial bids be submitted on or before June 2, 2006; (iv) for an auction to be held on June 6, 2006; and (v) for a closing of the sale of the business by June 15, 2006. On June 15, 2006, we completed the sale of substantially all of our assets to SCS Fund L.P. for (i) $5,250,000 in cash paid at closing, (ii) the assumption of certain assumed liabilities and (iii) the payment of certain “Cure Costs” as defined in the Agreement. In January 2007, the Court approved the Second Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization (the “Plan”) of Verilink and Larscom, which included (i) the sale of the Verilink shell to an outside investor group, and (ii) the creation of a Liquidating Trust that will be responsible for, among other things, payments to the unsecured creditors pursuant to the Plan. Following the sale of substantially all assets, we ceased operations. On January 31, 2007, the Court approved the Second Amended Plan. Under the Plan, if the Business Combination occurs within six (6) months of the Effective Date, the Company will receive a discharge of its debts under Section 1141 of the Bankruptcy Code. On January 17, 2008, the Court issued the Order Granting Motion of Liquidating Trustee to Extend Certain Deadlines Established in the Debtors’ Plan of Reorganization, which ordered the Business Combination deadline extended to February 13, 2009. A FAILURE TO COMBINE WITH A VIABLE PRIVATE ENTITY BY THE FEBRUARY 13, 2009 DEADLINE MAY RESULT IN THE STOCK OF VERILINK BEING DEEMED WORTHLESS. THERE ARE NO ASSURANCES THAT THE LIQUIDATING TRUSTEE WILL GRANT AN EXTENSION BEYOND THE FEBRUARY 13, 2009 DEADLINE. THERE ARE A NUMBER OF RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE RESTRUCTURING TRANSACTIONS INCLUDING THE FOLLOWING: A) FAILURE TO COMBINE WITH A VIABLE PRIVATE ENTITY BY THE COURT ORDERED DEADLINE OF FEBRUARY 13, 2009. IF THE COMPANY IS UNABLE TO COMPLETE A COMBINATION WITH A PRIVATE ENTITY, THE STOCK OF THE REORGANIZED COMPANY WILL BE WORTHLESS. B) ANY BUSINESS COMBINATION MAY RESULT IN A CHANGE OF CONTROL AND/OR MANAGEMENT OF THE REORGANIZED COMPANY; C) THE TERMS OF ANY BUSINESS COMBINATION ARE UNCERTAIN AND, THEREFORE, THE POTENTIAL EFFECT ON INVESTORS IS UNCERTAIN; D) EVEN IF REORGANIZED COMPANY MERGES WITH A PRIVATE ENTITY, THE COMBINED ENTITY MAY NOT BE ABLE TO QUALIFY TO TRADE ON A PUBLIC MARKET; E) EVEN IF THE REORGANIZED COMPANY MERGES WITH A PRIVATE ENTITY, THE COMBINED ENTITY FACES A MYRIAD OF PROBLEMS THAT ANY COMPANY MAY FACE IN TODAY’S ECONOMIC CLIMATE, AND MAY BE UNSUCCESSFUL. F) ANY BUSINESS COMBINATION MAY RESULT IN THE EQUITY INTEREST OF SHAREHOLDERS AND CREDITORS DELIVERED PURSUANT TO THE TERMS OF THE PLAN, BEING FURTHER DILUTED AND, THEREFORE, BEING OF LITTLE OR NO VALUE; G) A MARKET MAY NOT EXIST FOR THE COMPANY’S COMMON STOCK; H) THE REORGANIZED COMPANY IS CONTROLLED BY IACE INVESTMENTS TWO, INC. AS SUCH, THE MINORITY SHAREHOLDERS HAVE NO MEANINGFUL INPUT INTO THE DIRECTION OF THE COMPANY. ADDITIONAL RISK FACTORS INVESTING IN THE COMPANY’S COMMON STOCK INVOLVES A HIGH DEGREE OF RISK. IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS ACTUALLY MATERIALIZES, THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS WOULD SUFFER. The Company’s business is subject to numerous risk factors, including the following: 1. The Company has had no operating history since June 2006, nor any revenues or earnings from operations and it is insolvent. The Company has no assets or financial resources. It will, in all likelihood, sustain operating expenses without corresponding revenues, at least until the consummation of a business combination. This may result in the Company incurring a net operating loss that will increase continuously until it can consummate a business combination with a profitable business opportunity. There is no assurance that the Company can identify such a business opportunity and consummate such a business combination. 2. The Company’s proposed plan of operation is speculative. The success of the Company’s proposed plan of operation will depend to a great extent on the operations, financial condition and management of the identified business opportunity. While management intends to seek business combination(s) with entities having established operating histories, there can be no assurance that it will be successful in locating candidates meeting such criteria. In the event the Company completes a business combination, of which there can be no assurance, the success of its operations may be dependent upon management of the successor firm or venture partner firm and numerous other factors beyond the Company’s control. 3. The Company faces intense competition for business opportunities and combinations. The Company is and will continue to be an insignificant participant in the business of seeking mergers with, joint ventures with, and acquisitions of, small private and public entities. A large number of established and well-financed entities, including venture capital firms, are active in mergers and acquisitions of companies that may be the Company’s desirable target candidates. Nearly all such entities have significantly greater financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than the Company has and, consequently, the Company will be at a competitive disadvantage in identifying possible business opportunities and successfully completing a business combination. Moreover, the Company will also compete in seeking merger or acquisition candidates with numerous other small public companies. 4. The Company has no agreements for a business combination or other transaction and has not established standards for a business combination. The Company has no arrangement, agreement or understanding with respect to engaging in a merger with, joint venture with, or acquisition of, a private or public entity. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities or in concluding a business combination. Management has not identified any particular industry or specific business within an industry for the Company’s evaluation. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to negotiate a business combination on terms favorable to it. The Company has not established a specific length of operating history or a specified level of earnings, assets, net worth or other criteria which it will require a target business opportunity to have achieved, and without which it would not consider a business combination in any form with such business opportunity. Accordingly, the Company may enter into a business combination with a business opportunity having no significant operating history, losses, limited potential or no potential for earnings, limited assets, negative net worth or other negative characteristics. 5. The Company’s success is dependent upon management that has other full time employment, has limited experience and will only devote limited part time working for the Company, and this makes the Company’s future even more uncertain. Mr. Ditanna, our sole director and officer, entered into a written employment agreement to provide services part-time and office space. We have not obtained key man life insurance. Notwithstanding the combined limited experience and time commitment of management, loss of the services would adversely affect the Company’s chances of combining with a private entity within the Court ordered deadline. 6. The Company’s Director, who is its sole Officer, has a conflict of interest in that he is an officer and director of other companies, which will prevent him from devoting full-time to the Company’s operations, which may affect its operations. 7. The reporting requirements under federal securities law may delay or prevent the Company from making certain acquisitions. Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the "1934 Act"), require companies subject thereto to provide certain information about significant acquisitions, including certified financial statements for the company acquired, covering one, two or three years, depending on the relative size of the acquisition. The time and additional costs that may be incurred by some target entities to prepare such statements may significantly delay or essentially preclude consummation of an otherwise desirable acquisition by the Company. Acquisition prospects that do not have or are unable to obtain the required audited statements may not be appropriate for acquisition so long as the reporting requirements of the 1934 Act are applicable. In addition to the audited financial statements, in the filing of the Form 8-K that we file to report an event that causes us to cease being a shell company, we will be required to include that information that is normally reported by a company in a Form 10. The time and additional costs that may be incurred by some target entities to prepare and disclose such information may significantly delay or essentially preclude consummation of an otherwise desirable acquisition by the Company. 8. The Company’s present management most likely will not remain after it completes a business combination. A business combination involving the issuance of Common Stock will, in all likelihood, result in shareholders of a private company obtaining a controlling interest in the Company. Any such business combination may require our management to sell or transfer all or a portion of the Company's Common Stock held by them, and/or resign as members of the Board of Directors. The resulting change in control could result in removal of one or more present officers and directors and a corresponding reduction in or elimination of their participation in our future affairs. 9. At this time the Company does any business combination, each shareholder will most likely hold a substantially lesser percentage of ownership in the Company. Any business combination with a private entity, in all likelihood, will result in the Company issuing securities to shareholders of any such private company. The issuance of previously authorized and unissued Common Stock would result in reduction in the percentage of shares owned by present and prospective shareholders and may result in a change in control or in management. 10. As a shell company, the Company faces substantial additional adverse business and legal consequences. The Company may enter into a business combination with an entity that desires to establish a public trading market for its shares. A business opportunity may attempt to avoid what it deems to be adverse consequences of undertaking its own public offering by seeking a business combination with us. Such consequences may include, but are not limited to, time delays of the registration process, significant expenses to be incurred in such an offering, loss of voting control to public shareholders and the inability or unwillingness to comply with various federal and state laws enacted for the protection of investors. On June 29, 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted final rules amending the Form S-8 and the Form 8-K for shell companies. The amendments expand the definition of a shell company to be broader than a company with no or nominal operations/assets or assets consisting of cash and cash equivalents. The amendments prohibit the use of a Form S-8 (a form used by a corporation to register securities issued to an employee, director, officer, consultant or advisor), under certain circumstances, and revised the Form 8-K to require a shell company to include current Form 10 information, including audited financial statements, in the filing on Form 8-K that the shell company files to report the acquisition of the business opportunity. This initial filing must be made within four days of the acquisition. The Form 8-K filing may be reviewed by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the prospects of certain disclosures or review or the lack of the ability to issue securi ties using a Form S-8 may delay the consummation of a business combination because of the target entity's inability to comply with various federal and state laws enacted for the protection of investors or the unwillingness to assume the significant costs of compliance. 11. The Company’s Common Stock may never be widely traded and any shareholder may have no ability to sell the shares. While the Company’s stock has a trading symbol to facilitate trades on the OTC "Pink Sheets," there is no significant public trading market for the shares of Common Stock. In addition, there can be no assurance that a liquid market for the Common Stock will be established or that, if established, a market will be sustained. Therefore, the investor may be unable to sell the shares. Accordingly, the investor should be able to bear the financial risk of losing the entire investment. Only market makers can apply to quote securities. Market makers who desire to initiate quotations in the OTC Bulletin Board system must complete an application (Form 211) (unless an exemption is applicable) and by doing so, will have to represent that it has satisfied all applicable requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-11 and the filing and information requirements promulgated under the National Association of Securities Dealers' ("NASD") Bylaws. The OTC Bulletin Board will not charge a fee for being quoted on the service. NASD rules prohibit market makers from accepting any remuneration in return for quoting issuers' securities on the OTC Bulletin Board or any similar medium. The NASD Regulation, Inc. will review the market maker's application (unless an exemption is applicable) and if cleared, it cannot be assumed by any investor that any federal, state or self-regulatory requirements other than certain NASD rules and Rule 15c-211 ha ve been considered by the NASD Regulation, Inc. Furthermore, the clearance should not be construed by any investor as indicating that the NASD Regulation, Inc., the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any state securities commission has passed upon the accuracy or adequacy of the documents contained in the submission. The OTC Bulletin Board is a market maker or dealer-driven system offering quotation and trading reporting capabilities, a regulated quotation service that displays real-time quotes, last-sale prices, and volume information in OTC equity securities. The OTC Bulletin Board securities are not listed and traded on the floor of an organized national or regional stock exchange. Instead, OTC Bulletin Board securities transactions are conducted through a telephone and computer network connecting market makers or dealers in stocks. There is no assurance that the Common Stock will be accepted for listing on the OTC Bulletin Board or on any trading system other than the OTC "Pink Sheets." ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 