ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within the Company’s control that may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. Information in this Form 10-K should be considered carefully by investors in light of the risk factors described below and the information set forth under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Certain Assumptions.” Our markets are highly cyclical and a decline in these markets could have a material adverse effect on our operating performance. -15- A decline in overall customer demand in our cyclical access equipment, commercial and fire & emergency markets could have a material adverse effect on our operating performance. The access equipment market that JLG operates in is highly cyclical and impacted by the strength of the economy generally, by prevailing mortgage and other interest rates, by residential and non-residential construction spending and by other factors. The ready-mix concrete market that we serve is highly cyclical and impacted by the strength of the economy generally, by prevailing mortgage and other interest rates, by the number of housing starts and by other factors that may have an effect on the level of concrete placement activity, either regionally or nationally. Housing starts were weak in fiscal 2007 causing lower demand for our concrete mixers and telehandlers in the U.S., and we do not expect housing starts to improve until at least late fiscal 2008. We expect U.S. non-residential construction spending to weaken by mid fiscal 2008 for two to three quarters and then recover in fiscal 2009. Should this occur, our sales volumes in the U.S. for access equipment, concrete mixers and certain other products would likely decline. Concrete mixer and access equipment sales also are highly seasonal with the majority of such sales occurring in the spring and summer months, which constitute the traditional construction season. Domestic and European refuse collection vehicle markets are also highly cyclical and impacted by the strength of the economy generally and municipal tax receipts. Fire & emergency markets are modestly cyclical and are impacted by the economy generally and municipal tax receipts. If these markets face downturns, then there could be a material adverse effect on our net sales, financial condition, profitability and/or cash flows. Furthermore, our commercial and fire & emergency businesses saw an increase in orders in fiscal 2006 as customers pre-purchased truck chassis in anticipation of changes in diesel engine emissions standards effective January 1, 2007. As a result of this, we expect weak demand in our fire & emergency and commercial markets until at least late fiscal 2008. Additionally, the high levels of sales in our defense business in recent years have been due in significant part to demand for defense trucks, replacement parts and services and truck remanufacturing arising from the conflict in Iraq. Events such as this are unplanned, and we cannot predict how long this conflict will last or the demand for our products that will arise out of such an event. Accordingly, we cannot provide any assurance that the increased defense business as a result of this conflict will continue. We may not be able to successfully integrate the acquisition of JLG, which may have a material adverse impact on our future growth and operating performance. Realization of the sales, operating income and synergy targets for the JLG acquisition will require integration of JLG’s sales and marketing, distribution, manufacturing and engineering organizations. JLG is a complex, global business. The successful integration of JLG will require substantial attention from our management team. The diversion of management attention, as well as any other difficulties we may encounter in the integration process, could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, financial condition, profitability and/or cash flows. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to integrate the operations of JLG successfully, that we will be able to fully realize anticipated synergies from the acquisition or that we will be able to operate the JLG business as profitably as anticipated. Our high leverage and debt service obligations could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and limit our ability to obtain future financing. As a result of financing the JLG acquisition, we are highly leveraged. We had approximately $3.1 billion of debt outstanding as of September 30, 2007. Our ability to make required payments of principal and interest on our debt will depend on our future performance, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Based upon our current level of operations, we believe that cash flow from operations, available cash and available borrowings under our credit facilities will be adequate to meet our future liquidity needs. However, we cannot provide any assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available under our credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. In addition, our credit facilities contain financial and restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to, among other things, borrow additional funds or take advantage of business opportunities. Our failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and debt service capability. Our high level of debt, current conditions in the credit markets and the covenants contained in our credit facilities could have important consequences for our operations, including: – Increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and detract from our ability to withstand successfully a downturn in our highly cyclical markets or the economy generally; – Require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on debt, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development and other general corporate activities; – Limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; – Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets we serve; – Place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors; and -16- – Make us vulnerable to increases in interest rates because a portion of our debt under our credit facilities may be at variable rates. Our dependency on contracts with U.S. and foreign government agencies subjects us to a variety of risks that could materially reduce our revenues or profits. We are dependent on U.S. and foreign government contracts for a substantial portion of our business. That business is subject to the following risks, among others, that could have a material adverse effect on our operating performance: – Our business is susceptible to changes in the U.S. defense budget, which may reduce revenues that we expect from our defense business. – The U.S. government may not appropriate funding that we expect for our U.S. government contracts, which may prevent us from realizing revenues under current contracts or receiving additional orders that we anticipate we will receive. – Most of our government contracts are fixed-price contracts, and our actual costs may exceed our projected costs, which could result in lower profits or net losses under these contracts. – We are required to spend significant sums on product development and testing, bid and proposal activities and pre-contract engineering, tooling and design activities in competitions to have the opportunity to be awarded these contracts. – Competitions for the award of defense truck contracts are intense, and we cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in the defense truck procurement competitions in which we participate, especially competitions for armored vehicles such as the DoD’s Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicle programs, as these involve new product lines for us. – Certain of our government contracts could be suspended or terminated and all such contracts expire in the future and may not be replaced, which could reduce expected revenues from these contracts. – Our defense products undergo rigorous testing by the customer and are subject to highly technical requirements. Any failure to pass these tests or to comply with these requirements could result in unanticipated retrofit costs, delayed acceptance of trucks or late or no payments under such contracts. – Our government contracts are subject to audit, which could result in adjustments of our costs and prices under these contracts. – Our defense truck contracts are large in size and require significant personnel and production resources, and when such contracts end, we must make adjustments to personnel and production resources. – We periodically experience difficulties with sourcing sufficient vehicle carcasses to maintain our defense truck remanufacturing schedule, which can create uncertainty for this area of our business. If we are unable to successfully turnaround the profitability of our Geesink Norba Group, then we may be required to record an impairment charge for Geesink Norba Group goodwill. During fiscal 2004 and 2005, the Geesink Norba Group, our European refuse collection vehicle business, operated at a loss due to the weak European economy, declines in selling prices in its markets, operational inefficiencies and increased material, labor and warranty costs related to the launch of a new Geesink-branded rear loader. Although the Geesink Norba Group operated at a profit in fiscal 2006, the Geesink Norba Group operated at a loss again in fiscal 2007 due to soft market demand for its products in the United Kingdom, the lack of available chassis for mounting refuse collection vehicles in France and some market share losses. Although we have taken steps to turn around the business of the Geesink Norba Group, including recently announcing plans to rationalize a facility in The Netherlands and entering into discussions with the Works Council in Sweden regarding rationalizing a facility in that country, reducing its work force, installing new executive leadership, integrating operations with JLG, implementing lean manufacturing practices, introducing new products and outsourcing components to lower cost manufacturing sites, we cannot provide any assurance that the Geesink Norba Group will be able to operate profitably or that such activities will be successful. In addition, we may incur costs to continue to implement any such turn around beyond our current expectations for such costs as communicated in our earnings release dated November 1, 2007. Further, if we are unable to continue to turn around the business of the Geesink Norba Group, then we may be required to record an impairment charge for Geesink Norba Group goodwill, and there could be other material adverse effects on our net sales, financial condition, profitability and/or cash flows. We are expanding international operations, the conduct of which subjects us to risks that may have a material adverse effect on our business. -17- For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007, approximately 25% of our net sales were attributable to products sold outside of the United States. Expanding international sales is a part of our growth strategy. International operations and sales are subject to various risks, including political, religious and economic instability, local labor market conditions, the imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers, the impact of foreign government regulations and the effects of income and withholding taxes, governmental expropriation and differences in business practices. We may incur increased costs and experience delays or disruptions in product deliveries and payments in connection with international manufacturing and sales that could cause loss of revenues and earnings. In addition, we are increasingly subject to export control regulations, including, without limitation, the United States Export Administration Regulations and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations. Unfavorable changes in the political, regulatory and business climate could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, financial condition, profitability and/or cash flows. We are subject to fluctuations in exchange rates and other risks associated with our non-U.S. operations that could adversely affect our results of operations and may significantly affect the comparability of our results between financial periods. The results of operations and financial condition of our subsidiaries that conduct operations in foreign countries are reported in the relevant foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements, which are stated in U.S. dollars. In addition, we have significant firm sales orders in backlog that are denominated in Euros, U.K. pounds sterling, the Australian dollar and other currencies, certain agreements with subcontractors denominated in these currencies and sales of inventory denominated in U.S. dollars to certain of our subsidiaries that have functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar, all of which will subject us to foreign currency transaction risk to the extent they are not hedged. We actively strive to hedge these foreign currency transaction risks but cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in doing so. The exchange rates between many of these currencies and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may fluctuate significantly in the future. Such fluctuations, in particular those with respect to the Euro, the U.K. pound sterling and the Australian dollar, may have a material effect on our net sales, financial condition, profitability and/or cash flows and may significantly affect the comparability of our results between financial periods. We may experience losses in our access equipment segment in excess of our recorded reserves for doubtful accounts, finance and pledged finance receivables, notes receivable and guarantees of indebtedness of others. We have a portfolio of finance receivables with customers in our access equipment segment and we are a party to agreements whereby we guarantee the indebtedness of customers in our access equipment segment. We evaluate the collectibility of open accounts, finance and pledged finance receivables, notes receivable and our guarantees of indebtedness of others based on a combination of factors and establish reserves based on our estimates of potential losses. In circumstances where we believe it is probable that a specific customer will have difficulty meeting its financial obligations, a specific reserve is recorded to reduce the net recognized receivable to the amount we expect to collect, and/or we recognize a liability for a guarantee we expect to pay, taking into account any amounts that we would anticipate realizing if we are forced to take action against the equipment that supports the customer’s financial obligations to us. We also establish additional reserves based upon our perception of the quality of the current receivables, the current financial position of our customers and past collections experience. The historical loss experience of our finance receivables portfolio is limited, however, and therefore may not be indicative of future losses. We also face a concentration of credit risk with JLG’s top ten customers representing approximately 45% of JLG’s sales. Furthermore, some of these customers are highly leveraged. We may incur losses in excess of our recorded reserves if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate or the full amount of any anticipated proceeds from the sale of the collateral supporting our customers’ financial obligations is not realized. A disruption or termination of the supply of parts, materials, components and final assemblies from third-party suppliers could delay sales of our vehicles and vehicle bodies. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, significant disruption or termination of the supply of some of our parts, materials, components and final assemblies that we obtain from sole source suppliers or subcontractors or incur a significant increase in the cost of these parts, materials, components or final assemblies. Such disruptions, terminations or cost increases could delay sales of our vehicles and vehicle bodies and could result in a material adverse effect on our net sales, financial condition, profitability and/or cash flows. Changes in regulations could adversely affect our business. Both our products and the operation of our manufacturing facilities are subject to statutory and regulatory requirements. These include environmental requirements applicable to manufacturing and vehicle emissions, government contracting regulations and domestic and international trade regulations. A significant change to these regulatory requirements could substantially increase manufacturing costs or impact the size or timing of demand for our products, all of which could make our business results more variable. -18- Competition in our industries is intense and we may not be able to continue to compete successfully. We operate in highly competitive industries. Several of our competitors have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing and distribution resources than us and we are facing competitive pricing from new entrants in certain markets. Our products may not continue to compete successfully with the products of competitors, and we may not be able to retain or increase our customer base or to improve or maintain our profit margins on sales to our customers, all of which could adversely affect our net sales, financial condition, profitability and/or cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 