ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThe Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within the Company’s control, which may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. Investors should consider carefully information in this Form 10-K in light of the risk factors described below. Certain of our markets are highly cyclical and the current or any further decline in these markets could have a material adverse effect on our operating performance.The high levels of sales in our defense segment in recent years have been due in significant part to demand for defense trucks, replacement parts and services (including armoring) and truck remanufacturing arising from the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. Events such as these are unplanned, as is the demand for our products that arises out of such events. Virtually all U.S. troops were withdrawn from Iraq during 2011, and plans are in place for the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan by December 2014, both of which will likely result in a reduction in the level of defense funding allocated to support U.S. military involvement in those conflicts. In addition, current economic conditions have put significant pressure on the U.S. federal budget, including the defense budget. The DoD budget for fiscal 2012 includes significantly lower funding for purchases of new military vehicles that we manufacture under our FHTV and FMTV contracts than in prior years. In addition, the President's fiscal 2013 defense budget request, which includes expected funding requests for defense programs through fiscal 2017, includes significantly lower funding levels for the FHTV and FMTV programs than those that were included in the fiscal 2012 budget and includes no planned funding for the FMTV program starting in fiscal 2015. The President's fiscal 2013 budget request reflects previously announced plans to cut U.S. defense spending by $487 billion over the next ten years. The Budget Control Act of 2011 contains an automatic sequestration feature that could require additional cuts to defense spending totaling over $1 trillion during this period if Congress fails to enact the specified $1.2 trillion in U.S. federal deficit reductions by December 31, 2012. Unless Congress acts, sequestration will result in significant reductions to the defense budget starting in calendar 2013. The magnitude of the adverse impact that federal budget pressures and expected reductions in future defense funding as a result of the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq and planned withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan will have on funding for Oshkosh defense programs is uncertain, but directionally, we expect such funding to decline significantly. Furthermore, our defense business may fluctuate significantly from time to time as a result of the start and completion of existing and new contract awards that we may receive.The decline, compared to historical levels, in overall customer demand in our commercial and fire & emergency markets that we have experienced since the start of the global economic downturn and any further decline could have a material adverse effect on our operating performance. While demand in our access equipment markets has rebounded from historical lows that we experienced during the Great Recession and housing starts have begun to improve to support recovery in several of our product lines, such demand is dependent on the global economies and may not be sustainable. Recently, there have been increasing concerns about several European economies. Further, certain countries in Asia and Latin America have experienced slower growth rates than the prior year and there have been mixed economic signs in the U.S. All of these factors, whether taken together or individually, could result in lower demand for our products. The access equipment market is highly cyclical and impacted by the strength of economies in general, by residential and non-residential construction spending, by the ability of rental companies to obtain third party financing to purchase revenue generating assets, by capital expenditures of rental companies in general and by other factors. The ready-mix concrete market that we serve is highly cyclical and impacted by the strength of the economy generally, by the number of housing starts and by other factors that may have an effect on the level of concrete placement activity, either regionally or nationally. Refuse collection vehicle markets are also cyclical and impacted by the strength of economies in general, by municipal tax receipts and by capital expenditures of large waste haulers. Fire & emergency markets are cyclical later in an economic downturn and are impacted by the economy generally and by municipal tax receipts and capital expenditures. Concrete mixer and access equipment sales also are seasonal with the majority of such sales occurring in the spring and summer months, which constitute the traditional construction season in the Northern hemisphere.The global economy continues to experience weakness, which has negatively impacted sales volumes for our access equipment, commercial and fire & emergency products as compared to historical levels. In addition, the global economic weakness has caused lending institutions to tighten their credit lending standards, which has restricted our customers' access to capital. Continued weakness in U.S. and European housing starts and non-residential construction spending from historical levels in most geographical areas of the world are further contributing to the lower sales volumes. A lack of significant improvement in residential and non-residential construction spending or continued low levels of construction activity generally may cause future weakness in demand for our products. Order rates in the access equipment segment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 were significantly lower than in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. While we believe that this is largely due to a shift 16Table of Contentsin the timing of orders, we cannot offer any assurances that the slower order rate will not continue into the foreseeable future. Municipal tax revenues in the U.S. have weakened, which has negatively impacted demand for refuse collection vehicles and fire apparatus and delayed the recovery in these markets. Furthermore, it is possible that emerging market growth has slowed and could slow even further, which could negatively impact our growth in those markets. We cannot provide any assurance that the global economic weakness and tight credit markets will not continue or become more severe. In addition, we cannot provide any assurance that any economic recovery will not progress more slowly than what we or the market expect. If the global economic weakness and tight credit markets continue or become more severe, or if any economic recovery progresses more slowly than what we or the market expect, then there could be a material adverse effect on our net sales, financial condition, profitability and/or cash flows.Our dependency on contracts with U.S. and foreign government agencies subjects us to a variety of risks that could materially reduce our revenues or profits.We are dependent on U.S. and foreign government contracts for a substantial portion of our business. Approximately 91% of our defense segment sales in fiscal 2012 were to the DoD. That business is subject to the following risks, among others, that could have a material adverse effect on our operating performance:•Our business is susceptible to changes in the U.S. defense budget, which may reduce revenues that we expect from our defense business, especially in light of federal budget pressures in part caused by U.S. economic weakness, the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq, the plans to withdraw U.S. troops from Afghanistan by December 2014 and the level of defense funding that will be allocated to the DoD's tactical wheeled vehicle strategy generally.•The U.S. government may not appropriate funding that we expect for our U.S. government contracts, which may prevent us from realizing revenues under current contracts or receiving additional orders that we anticipate we will receive.•Certain of our government contracts for the U.S. Army and U.S. Marines could be suspended, opened for competition or terminated, and all such contracts expire in the future and may not be replaced, which could reduce revenues that we expect under the contracts and negatively affect margins in our defense segment.•The Weapon Systems Acquisition Reform Act requires competition for U.S. defense programs in certain circumstances. It is possible that the U.S. Army and U.S. Marines will conduct an open competition for programs for which we currently have contracts upon the expiration of the existing contracts. Competition for DoD programs that we currently have could result in the U.S. government awarding future contracts to another manufacturer or the U.S. government awarding the contracts to us at lower prices and operating margins than we experience under the current contracts.•Defense truck contract awards that we receive may be subject to protests by competing bidders, which protests, if successful, could result in the DoD revoking part or all of any defense truck contract it awards to us and our inability to recover amounts we have expended in anticipation of initiating production under any such contract.•Most of our government contracts are fixed-price contracts with price escalation factors included for those contracts that extend beyond one year. Our actual costs on any of these contracts may exceed our projected costs, which could result in profits lower than historically realized or than we anticipate or net losses under these contracts.•We recognize revenue on certain undefinitized contracts with the DoD to the extent that we can reasonably and reliably estimate the expected final contract price and when collectability is reasonably assured. Undefinitized contracts are used when we and the DoD have not agreed upon all contract terms before we begin performance under the contracts. At September 30, 2012, we had recorded $83.4 million in revenue on contracts that remain undefinitized. To the extent that contract definitization results in changes or adjustments to previously recognized revenues or estimated or incurred costs, including charges from subcontractors, we record those adjustments as a change in estimate in the period of change. While we believe the definitization of contracts will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, actual results could vary from current estimates.•We are required to spend significant sums on product development and testing, bid and proposal activities and pre-contract engineering, tooling and design activities in competitions to have the opportunity to be awarded these contracts.•Competitions for the award of defense truck contracts are intense, and we cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in the defense truck procurement competitions in which we participate.17Table of Contents•Our defense products undergo rigorous testing by the customer and are subject to highly technical requirements. Our products are inspected extensively by the DoD prior to acceptance to determine adherence to contractual technical and quality requirements. Any failure to pass these tests or to comply with these requirements could result in unanticipated retrofit and rework costs, vehicle design changes, delayed acceptance of vehicles, late or no payments under such contracts or cancellation of the contract to provide vehicles to the government.•Our government contracts are subject to audit, which could result in adjustments of our costs and prices under these contracts.•Our defense truck contracts are large in size and require significant personnel and production resources, and when such contracts end, we must make adjustments to personnel and production resources. This was the case in October 2012 when we announced the layoff of 450 full time employees and 40 contractors effective January 2013 due to a reduction in production levels. If we are unable to effectively reduce our cost structure commensurate with the completion of certain large defense contracts, our future earnings and cash flows would be adversely affected. In addition, if we are not able to utilize existing production equipment for alternative purposes, we could incur asset impairment charges as a result of the significant reduction in projected defense funding.•We have historically received payments in advance of product deliveries, or performance-based payments (“PBP”), on a number of our U.S. government contracts. In the event that we are not able to meet contractual delivery requirements on these contracts, the U.S. government may discontinue providing PBPs. The U.S. government may also become less willing to offer PBPs. If we stop receiving PBPs or receive PBPs at lower levels, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to repay debt and cause us to incur higher interest rates on our outstanding debt.•In the event of component availability constraints, the U.S. government has the ability to unilaterally divert the supply of components used on multiple government programs to those programs rated most urgent (DX-rated programs).•We periodically experience difficulties with sourcing sufficient vehicle carcasses to maintain our defense truck remanufacturing schedule, which can create uncertainty and inefficiencies for this area of our business.We may not be able to execute on our MOVE strategy and meet our long-term financial goals.We have announced a roadmap, our MOVE strategy, to deliver long-term growth and earnings for our shareholders and to meet our long-term financial goals. The long-term financial goals that we expect to achieve as a result of our MOVE strategy are based on certain assumptions we have made, which assumptions may prove to be incorrect. We cannot provide any assurance we will be able to successfully execute our MOVE strategy, which is subject to a variety of risks, including the following:•A lower or slower than expected recovery in housing starts and non-residential construction spending;•Greater than expected declines in DoD tactical wheeled vehicle spending;•Our inability to adjust our cost structure in response to lower defense spending;•Greater than expected pressure on municipal budgets;•Our inability to raise prices to offset cost increases or increase margins;•The possibility that commodity cost escalations could erode profits;•Low cost competitors aggressively entering one or more of our markets with significantly lower pricing;•Primary competitors vying for share gains through aggressive price competition;•Our inability to obtain and retain adequate resources to support production ramp-ups, including management personnel;•The inability of our supply base to keep pace with the economic recovery;18Table of Contents•Our failure to realize product, process and overhead cost reduction targets;•Not winning key large defense contracts, such as the JLTV production contract and additional international M-ATV contracts;•Our inability to innovate effectively and rapidly to expand sales and margins; and•Slow adoption of our products in emerging markets and/or our inability to successfully execute our emerging market growth strategy.An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets could negatively affect our operating results.We have a substantial amount of goodwill and purchased intangible assets on our balance sheet as a result of acquisitions we have completed. At September 30, 2012, approximately 88% of these intangibles were concentrated in the access equipment segment. The carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of an acquired business in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. The carrying value of indefinite-lived intangible assets represents the fair value of trademarks and trade names as of the acquisition date. We do not amortize goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets that we expect to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows, but instead we evaluate these assets for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if potential interim indicators exist that could result in impairment. In testing for impairment, if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its current fair value as determined based on the discounted future cash flows of the reporting unit and market comparable sales and earnings multiples, the goodwill or intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. Events and conditions that could result in impairment include a prolonged period of global economic weakness and tight credit markets, further decline in economic conditions or a slow, weak economic recovery, as well as sustained declines in the price of our common stock, adverse changes in the regulatory environment, adverse changes in interest rates, or other factors leading to reductions in the long-term sales or profitability that we expect. Determination of the fair value of a reporting unit includes developing estimates which are highly subjective and incorporate calculations that are sensitive to minor changes in underlying assumptions. Management's assumptions change as more information becomes available. Changes in these assumptions could result in an impairment charge in the future, which could have a significant adverse impact on our reported earnings.Financing costs and restrictive covenants in our current debt facilities could limit our flexibility in managing our business and increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions.Our credit agreement contains financial and restrictive covenants which, among other things, require us to satisfy quarter-end financial ratios, including a leverage ratio, a senior secured leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio. Our ability to meet the financial ratios in such covenants may be affected by a number of risks or events, including the risks described in this Form 10-K and events beyond our control. The indenture governing our senior notes also contains restrictive covenants. Any failure by us to comply with these restrictive covenants or the financial and restrictive covenants in our credit agreement could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and debt service capability.Our access to debt financing at competitive risk-based interest rates is partly a function of our credit ratings. Our current long-term debt ratings are BB with “negative” watch from Standard & Poor's Rating Services and Ba3 with “stable” outlook from Moody's Investors Service. The downgrade from “stable” watch to “negative” watch by Standard & Poor's in October 2012 was directly related to the announcement of the unsolicited tender offer by Mr. Carl Icahn and related entities for any and all outstanding shares of our common stock. A downgrade to our credit ratings could increase our interest rates, could limit our access to public debt markets, could limit the institutions willing to provide us credit facilities, and could make any future credit facilities or credit facility amendments more costly and/or difficult to obtain.We had $955 million of debt outstanding as of September 30, 2012, which consisted primarily of a $455 million term loan under our credit agreement maturing in October 2015 and $500 million of senior notes, $250 million of which mature in March 2017 and $250 million of which mature in March 2020. Our ability to make required payments of principal and interest on our debt will depend on our future performance, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, political and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. As we discuss above, our dependency on contracts with U.S. and foreign government agencies subjects us to a variety of risks that, if realized, could materially reduce our revenues, profits and cash flows. In addition, among other risks that we face that could affect our revenues, profits and cash flows, current continued economic uncertainty, declining U.S. defense budgets and tight credit markets could become more severe or prolonged. 19Table of ContentsAccordingly, conditions could arise that could limit our ability to generate sufficient cash flows or access borrowings to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, further limit our financial flexibility or impair our ability to obtain alternative financing sufficient to repay our debt at maturity.The covenants in our credit agreement and the indenture governing our senior notes, our credit rating, our current debt levels and the current credit market conditions could have important consequences for our operations, including:•Render us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions in our highly cyclical markets or economies generally;•Require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to interest costs or required payments on debt, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, stock repurchases, dividends and other general corporate activities;•Limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund growth working capital, capital expenditures, new product development expenses and other general corporate requirements;•Limit our ability to enter into additional foreign currency and interest rate derivative contracts;•Make us vulnerable to increases in interest rates as a portion of our debt under our credit agreement is at variable rates;•Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets we serve;•Place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors; and•Limit our ability to pursue strategic acquisitions that may become available in our markets or otherwise capitalize on business opportunities if we had additional borrowing capacity.Raw material price fluctuations may adversely affect our results.We purchase, directly and indirectly through component purchases, significant amounts of steel, aluminum, petroleum based products and other raw materials annually. Steel, aluminum, fuel and other commodity prices have historically been highly volatile. There are indications that costs for these items may increase in the future due to one or more of the following: a sustained economic recovery, political unrest in certain countries or a weakening U.S. dollar. Increases in commodity costs negatively impact the profitability of orders in backlog as prices on those orders are usually fixed. If we are not able to recover commodity cost increases through price increases to our customers on new orders, then such increases will have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, if we are unable to negotiate timely component cost decreases commensurate with any decrease in commodity costs, our higher component prices could put us at a material disadvantage as compared to our competition.Furthermore, we largely do business in the defense segment under multi-year firm, fixed-price contracts with the DoD, which typically contain annual price increases. We attempt to limit the risk related to raw material price fluctuations in the defense segment by obtaining firm pricing from suppliers at the time a contract is awarded. However, if these suppliers do not honor their contracts, then we could face margin pressure in our defense business.We expect to incur costs and charges as a result of measures such as facilities and operations consolidations and workforce reductions that we expect will reduce on-going costs, and those measures also may be disruptive to our business and may not result in anticipated cost savings.We have been consolidating facilities and operations in an effort to make our business more efficient and expect to continue to review our overall manufacturing footprint. We have incurred, and expect in the future to incur, additional costs and restructuring charges in connection with such consolidations, workforce reductions and other cost reduction measures that have adversely affected and, to the extent incurred in the future would adversely affect, our future earnings and cash flows. Furthermore, such actions may be disruptive to our business. This may result in production inefficiencies, product quality issues, late product deliveries or lost orders as we begin production at consolidated facilities, which would adversely impact our sales levels, operating results and operating margins. In addition, we may not realize the cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of such actions.20Table of ContentsIn January 2011, we began the consolidation of Medtec Ambulance production into fire & emergency segment facilities in Bradenton, Florida. We had expected that the move of ambulance production from four separate facilities to a dedicated production facility in Florida would result in significantly improved performance. Despite efforts by numerous dedicated individuals and teams, the business continued to operate at a loss and it became apparent that the Medtec product line would not achieve profitability in a reasonable time frame, if at all, and as a result a decision was made to exit the business. Costs to exit this business may exceed our estimates and could adversely affect our future earnings and cash flows. Furthermore, such actions may be disruptive to our other businesses in the fire & emergency segment.In October 2012, we announced the layoff of 450 full time employees and 40 contractors in the defense segment effective January 2013. This action was in response to a reduction in production levels due to lower demand from the DoD. We may incur additional costs and restructuring charges in connection with such workforce reductions that could adversely affect our future earnings and cash flows. Furthermore, such actions may be disruptive to our business.We may experience losses in excess of our recorded reserves for doubtful accounts, finance receivables, notes receivable and guarantees of indebtedness of others.As of September 30, 2012, we had consolidated gross receivables of $1.05 billion. In addition, we were a party to agreements whereby we estimate our maximum exposure to be $94.6 million under guarantees of customer indebtedness to third parties aggregating approximately $363.8 million. We evaluate the collectability of open accounts, finance receivables, notes receivable and our guarantees of indebtedness of others based on a combination of factors and establish reserves based on our estimates of potential losses. In circumstances where we believe it is probable that a specific customer will have difficulty meeting its financial obligations, a specific reserve is recorded to reduce the net recognized receivable to the amount we expect to collect, and/or we recognize a liability for a guarantee we expect to pay, taking into account any amounts that we would anticipate realizing if we are forced to repossess the equipment that supports the customer's financial obligations to us. We also establish additional reserves based upon our perception of the quality of the current receivables, the current financial position of our customers and past collections experience. Continued economic weakness and tight credit markets may result in additional requirements for specific reserves. During periods of economic weakness, the collateral underlying our guarantees of indebtedness of customers or receivables can decline sharply, thereby increasing our exposure to losses. We also face a concentration of credit risk as the access equipment segment's ten largest debtors at September 30, 2012 represented approximately 26% of our consolidated gross receivables. Some of these customers are highly leveraged. We may incur losses in excess of our recorded reserves if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate further or the full amount of any anticipated proceeds from the sale of the collateral supporting our customers' financial obligations is not realized. Our cash flows and overall liquidity may be materially adversely affected if any of the financial institutions that finance our customer receivables become unable or unwilling, due to current economic conditions, a weakening of our or their financial position or otherwise, to continue providing such credit.Systemic failures that the customer may identify could exceed recorded reserves or negatively affect our ability to win future business with the DoD or other foreign military customers.As a result of the accelerated timetable from product design to full-scale production, the accelerated production schedule and limited field testing under the M-ATV contract and our rapid ramp up to full-scale production of FMTVs, these vehicles could encounter systemic failures during fielding and use of the vehicles for which we may have responsibility. Additionally, we did not design the FMTV portfolio of trucks and trailers, and the design for this portfolio includes requirements that have caused us to implement manufacturing processes that we have not used extensively under previous contracts. If we do not implement these manufacturing processes correctly, then there could be systemic failures for which we may have responsibility. We have established reserves for the estimated cost of such systemic-type repairs based upon historical warranty rates of other defense programs in which we participate. If systemic issues arise, rectification costs could be in excess of the established reserves. If the DoD identifies systemic issues, this situation could impact our ability to win future business with the DoD or other foreign military customers, which would adversely affect our future earnings and cash flows.21Table of ContentsA disruption or termination of the supply of parts, materials, components and final assemblies from third-party suppliers could delay sales of our vehicles and vehicle bodies.We have experienced, and may in the future experience, significant disruption or termination of the supply of some of our parts, materials, components and final assemblies that we obtain from sole source suppliers or subcontractors. We may also incur a significant increase in the cost of these parts, materials, components or final assemblies. These risks are increased in a weak economic environment with tight credit conditions and when demand increases coming out of an economic downturn. Such disruptions, terminations or cost increases have resulted and could further result in manufacturing inefficiencies due to us having to wait for parts to arrive on the production line, could delay sales and could result in a material adverse effect on our net sales, financial condition, profitability and/or cash flows.Our objective is to expand international operations and sales, the conduct of which subjects us to risks that may have a material adverse effect on our business.Expanding international operations and sales is a part of our growth strategy. Our outlook depends in part upon increases in international orders and sales that may not materialize. International operations and sales are subject to various risks, including political, religious and economic instability, local labor market conditions, the imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers, the impact of foreign government regulations and the effects of income and withholding taxes, governmental expropriation and differences in business practices. We may incur increased costs and experience delays or disruptions in product deliveries and payments in connection with international manufacturing and sales that could cause loss of revenues and earnings. Among other things, there are additional logistical requirements associated with international sales, which increase the amount of time between the completion of vehicle production and our ability to recognize related revenue. In addition, expansion into foreign markets requires the establishment of distribution networks and may require modification of products to meet local requirements or preferences. Establishment of distribution networks or modification to the design of our products to meet local requirements and preferences may take longer or be more costly than we anticipate and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve international sales growth. In addition, our entry into certain markets that we wish to enter may require us to establish a joint venture. Identifying an appropriate joint venture partner and creating a joint venture could be more time consuming, more costly and more difficult than we anticipate.As a result of our international operations and sales, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our international activities create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments in violation of the FCPA by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors, because these parties are not always subject to our control. Any violations of the FCPA could result in significant fines, criminal sanctions against us or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business, including our business with the U.S. government. We are also increasingly subject to export control regulations, including, without limitation, the United States Export Administration Regulations and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations. Unfavorable changes in the political, regulatory or business climate could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, financial condition, profitability and/or cash flows.We are subject to fluctuations in exchange rates associated with our non-U.S. operations that could adversely affect our results of operations and may significantly affect the comparability of our results between financial periods.Approximately 22% of our net sales in fiscal 2012 were attributable to products sold outside of the United States, including approximately 18% that involved export sales from the United States. The majority of export sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. Sales outside the United States are typically made in the local currencies of those countries. Fluctuations in foreign currency can have an adverse impact on our sales and profits as amounts that are measured in foreign currency are translated back to U.S. dollars. We have sales of inventory denominated in U.S. dollars to certain of our subsidiaries that have functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The exchange rates between many of these currencies and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may fluctuate significantly in the future. Such fluctuations, in particular those with respect to the Euro, the Chinese Renminbi, the Canadian dollar, the Brazilian real and the Australian dollar, may have a material effect on our net sales, financial condition, profitability and/or cash flows and may significantly affect the comparability of our results between financial periods. Any appreciation in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the value of the local currency will adversely affect our revenues from our foreign operations when translated into U.S. dollars. Similarly, any appreciation in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the value of the local currency of those countries where our products are sold will increase our costs in our foreign operations, to the extent such costs are payable in foreign currency, when translated into U.S. dollars.22Table of ContentsChanges in regulations could adversely affect our business.Both our products and the operation of our manufacturing facilities are subject to statutory and regulatory requirements. These include environmental requirements applicable to manufacturing and vehicle emissions, government contracting regulations and domestic and international trade regulations. A significant change to these regulatory requirements could substantially increase manufacturing costs or impact the size or timing of demand for our products, all of which could make our business results more variable.In particular, climate change is receiving increasing attention worldwide. Many scientists, legislators and others attribute climate change to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. Congress has previously considered and may in the future implement restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions through a cap-and-trade system under which emitters would be required to buy allowances to offset emissions of greenhouse gas. In addition, several states, including states where we have manufacturing plants, are considering various greenhouse gas registration and reduction programs. Our manufacturing plants use energy, including electricity and natural gas, and certain of our plants emit amounts of greenhouse gas that may be affected by these legislative and regulatory efforts. Greenhouse gas regulation could increase the price of the electricity we purchase, increase costs for our use of natural gas, potentially restrict access to or the use of natural gas, require us to purchase allowances to offset our own emissions or result in an overall increase in our costs of raw materials, any one of which could increase our costs, reduce our competitiveness in a global economy or otherwise negatively affect our business, operations or financial results.Disruptions within our dealer network could adversely affect our business.Although we sell the majority of our products directly to the end user, we market, sell and service products through a network of independent dealers in the fire & emergency segment and in a limited number of markets for the access equipment and commercial segments. As a result, our business with respect to these products is influenced by our ability to establish and manage new and existing relationships with dealers. While we have relatively low turnover of dealers, from time to time, we or a dealer may choose to terminate the relationship as a result of difficulties that our independent dealers experience in operating their businesses due to economic conditions or other factors, or as a result of an alleged failure by us or an independent dealer to comply with the terms of our dealer agreement. We do not believe our business is dependent on any single dealer, the loss of which would have a sustained material adverse effect upon our business. However, disruption of dealer coverage within a specific state or other geographic market could cause difficulties in marketing, selling or servicing our products and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition.In addition, our ability to terminate our relationship with a dealer is limited due to state dealer laws, which generally provide that a manufacturer may not terminate or refuse to renew a dealer agreement unless it has first provided the dealer with required notices. Under many state laws, dealers may protest termination notices or petition for relief from termination actions. Responding to these protests and petitions may cause us to incur costs and, in some instances, could lead to litigation resulting in lost opportunities with other dealers or lost sales opportunities, which may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition.Our business could be negatively affected as a result of an unsolicited tender offer and threatened proxy contest.On October 17, 2012, Mr. Carl Icahn and related entities (the “Icahn Entities”) commenced an unsolicited tender offer for “any and all” issued and outstanding shares of our common stock for $32.50 per share in cash (the “Offer”). On October 26, 2012, the Icahn Entities also submitted to the Company a notice of intention to nominate a slate of candidates to replace the entire Board of Directors of the Company at the Company's 2013 annual meeting of shareholders. The Company's Board of Directors carefully reviewed the Offer, in consultation with the Company's financial and legal advisors, and unanimously determined that the Offer is inadequate, undervalues the Company and is not in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders and recommended that the Company's shareholders reject the Offer and not tender their shares into the Offer. These events may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition because, among other things:•Our review and consideration of the Offer, proxy contest and related actions by the Icahn Entities have been, and may continue to be, a significant distraction for our management and employees and have required, and may continue to require, our expenditure of significant time and resources. Costs associated with the Offer and related proxy contest may be substantial.23Table of Contents•Perceived uncertainties among current and potential customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies as to our future direction as a consequence of these events may result in lost sales, weaker execution of our MOVE strategy and the loss of potential business opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners.•Actions that our Board of Directors has taken, and may take in the future, in response to the Offer, proxy contest and related actions by the Icahn Entities or any other offer or proposal may result in litigation against us. These lawsuits may be a significant distraction for our management and employees and may require us to incur significant costs. Moreover, if determined adversely to us, these lawsuits could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.We believe the future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide price fluctuations based on uncertainty associated with the Offer and the related proxy contest. If the Icahn Entities consummate the Offer with the result that they become the owners of additional shares of our common stock or if Icahn Entities' nominees are elected such that they constitute a majority of our Board of Directors, then additional consequences are likely to follow that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition, the value of our shares of common stock or shareholders' interests in our company.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSThe Company has no unresolved staff comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding September 30, 2012.24Table of Contents