ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this report, the following risks may affect us. If any of these risks occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. Deterioration in economic conditions in the Bay Area could adversely affect our operations Our Bay Area business concentration exposes us to changes in Bay Area economic conditions. Our operations are located in Northern California and concentrated primarily in Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, Monterey, San Francisco, San Mateo, Santa Cruz, Santa Clara and Sonoma Counties, which include the area known as the “Silicon Valley.” As a result of this geographic concentration, our results are substantially affected by market, economic and business conditions in these areas. Overall Bay Area economic trends continue to be of concern with the recovery from the 2000-2003 downturn being protracted. While there has been improvement in employment, real estate occupancy rates, and rental rates, these indicators all remain at levels below the peak of the economic boom the region enjoyed in the late 1990’s and remain depressed below levels that we would expect in a healthier economic environment. A further extended recovery period or a decline in economic and business conditions in our market areas, particularly in the technology and real estate industries on which the Bay Area depends, could have a material impact on the quality of our loan portfolio or the demand for our products and services, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Current investigations of the insurance industry by regulators may result in changes in industry practices that could have an adverse affect on our financial results State attorneys general in several states are investigating insurance brokerage firms to obtain information about compensation agreements between insurance brokers and insurance companies. One of the areas of focus of these inquiries to date has been on contingency or override payments that insurance companies pay to brokers based on the overall relationship and services provided by the broker. Such payments are generally in accordance with longstanding industry practice and may be based upon a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, aggregate volume, profitability, and persistency of insurance policies placed by the broker. The New York Attorney General alleged that Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. engaged in illegal bid rigging and steering activities. The California Department of Insurance has also announced that, while it continues to review contingency arrangements, it is deferring any action on proposed broker compensation disclosure regulations in view of industry initiatives underway in this area. 17 Table of Contents ABD receives such commissions and override payments, which amounted to $14.5 million during 2005, or 9.3% of total ABD commissions and fees. ABD has received requests for information from several state insurance commissioners and subpoenas from the Office of the Attorney General of the State of New York and the Office of the Attorney General of the State of Connecticut about ABD’s marketing practices and compensation arrangements with insurance carriers. As a result of conversations with officials of both states, it is our understanding that ABD’s receipt of the subpoenas is part of a broad review of the insurance brokerage industry and that others in the industry have received subpoenas. We anticipate that officials from other jurisdictions may also seek information from ABD as part of the ongoing industry-wide investigations into contingent commissions and override payments. ABD intends to cooperate in these investigations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2005 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 