ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information contained in this report, the following risks may affect us. If any of these risks occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. Deterioration in economic conditions in the San Francisco Bay Area could adversely affect our operations Our San Francisco Bay Area business concentration disproportionately exposes us to changes in Bay Area economic conditions. Our Bank operations are concentrated in Northern California, primarily in Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, Monterey, San Francisco, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Santa Cruz, and Sonoma Counties, and includes the area known as the “Silicon Valley.” While the Bay Area has experienced improvement since 2003 in employment, real estate occupancy rates, and rental rates, these indicators all remain at levels below the peak of the economic boom the region enjoyed in the late 1990’s. A decline in economic and business conditions in our market areas, particularly in the technology and real estate industries on which the Bay Area depends, could have a material impact on the quality of our loan portfolio or the demand for our products and services, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Regulatory changes in the insurance industry may result in changes in industry practices that could have an adverse affect on our financial results ABD has received and responded to requests for information from several state insurance commissioners and subpoenas from the Office of the Attorney General of the State of New York and the Office of the Attorney General of the State of Connecticut about ABD’s marketing practices and compensation arrangements with insurance carriers. As a result of conversations with officials of both states, it is our understanding that ABD’s receipt of the subpoenas is part of a broad review of the insurance brokerage industry and that others in the industry have received subpoenas. We anticipate that officials from other jurisdictions may also seek information from ABD as part of the ongoing industry-wide investigations into contingent commissions and override payments. ABD has cooperated fully with these information requests. ABD’s commissions and override payments amounted to $14.3 million during 2006, or 8.5% of ABD’s total commissions and fees. As a result of changes in the insurance industry with respect to the payment of contingent commissions and override payments, it is possible that the amount of such commissions and override payments we receive in the future may decrease. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 