Item 1A. Risk Factors” on pages 12 through 19. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws. ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Perini Corporation and its subsidiaries (or “Perini,” “we,” “us,” and “our,” unless the context indicates otherwise) is a leading construction services company, based on revenues, as ranked by Engineering News-Record, or ENR, offering diversified general contracting, construction management and design-build services to private clients and public agencies throughout the world. We have provided construction services since 1894 and have established a strong reputation within our markets by executing large, complex projects on time and within budget while adhering to strict quality control measures. We offer general contracting, preconstruction planning and comprehensive project management services, including the planning and scheduling of the manpower, equipment, materials and subcontractors required for a project. We also offer self-performed construction services including site work, concrete forming and placement and steel erection. During 2005, we performed work on approximately 300 construction projects for over 180 federal, state and local government agencies or authorities and private customers. Our headquarters are in Framingham, Massachusetts, and we have twelve other principal offices throughout the United States. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “PCR”. Our $21.25 Preferred Stock is listed on the American Stock Exchange. Our business is conducted through three primary segments: building, civil, and management services. Our building segment, comprised of Perini Building Company, James A. Cummings, Inc., or Cummings, and the newly acquired Rudolph and Sletten, Inc., focuses on large, complex projects in the hospitality and gaming, sports and entertainment, educational, transportation, healthcare, biotech, pharmaceutical and high-tech markets. Our civil segment is comprised of Perini Civil Construction and the newly acquired Cherry Hill Construction, Inc., or Cherry Hill, and focuses on public works construction primarily in the eastern United States, including the repair, replacement and reconstruction of the public infrastructure such as highways, bridges, mass transit systems and wastewater treatment facilities. Our management services segment provides diversified construction, design-build and maintenance services to the U.S. military and government agencies as well as power producers, surety companies and multi-national corporations. 2 Business Segment Overview Building Segment Our building segment has significant experience providing services to a number of high growth, specialized building markets, including the hospitality and gaming, sports and entertainment, educational, transportation, healthcare, biotech, pharmaceutical and high-tech markets. We believe our success within the building segment results from our proven ability to manage and perform large, complex projects with aggressive fast-track schedules, elaborate designs and advanced systems while providing accurate budgeting and strict quality control. Although price is a key competitive factor, we believe our strong reputation, long-standing customer relationships and significant level of repeat and referral business have enabled us to achieve our leading position. We believe the hospitality and gaming market provides significant opportunities for growth. We are a recognized leader in this market, specializing in the construction of high-end destination resorts and casinos and Native American developments. We work with hotel operators, Native American tribal councils, developers and architectural firms to provide diversified construction services to meet the challenges of new construction and renovation of hotel and resort properties. We believe that our reputation for completing projects on time is a significant competitive advantage in this market, as any delay in project completion may result in significant loss of revenues for the customer. In its 2005 rankings based on revenue, ENR ranked us as the nation’s 13th largest contractor in the general building market, the largest builder in the hotel, motel and convention center market, the third largest builder in the entertainment market, and as one of the top 25 builders in the retail market. Had the ENR 2005 rankings taken into account our acquisition of Rudolph and Sletten, we believe that we would have ranked as the nation’s 8th largest contractor in the general building market, the largest builder in the hotel, motel and convention center market and as one of the top 25 builders in the entertainment, healthcare, education, and retail markets. As a result of our reputation and track record, we have constructed many marquee projects. These include hospitality and gaming projects such as the Paris Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas, NV; the Gaylord Palms Resort and Convention Center in Orlando, FL; and the Grand Resorts Hotel/Casino Expansion in Atlantic City, NJ. In our other end markets, we have constructed large, complex projects such as the Airport Parking Garage and Rental Car Facility in Ft. Lauderdale, FL; the Florida International University Health & Life Sciences Building in Miami, FL; and the South Shore Hospital expansion in Weymouth, MA. In January 2003, we acquired Cummings to expand our presence in the southeast region of the United States. Cummings specializes in the construction of schools, municipal buildings and commercial developments. In October 2005, we acquired Rudolph and Sletten to expand our presence on the west coast of the United States. Rudolph and Sletten specializes in the construction of corporate campuses and healthcare, biotech, pharmaceutical and high-tech projects. Civil Segment Our civil segment specializes in new public works construction and the repair, replacement and reconstruction of infrastructure, primarily in the eastern United States, often in metropolitan New York. Our civil contracting services include construction and rehabilitation of highways, bridges, mass transit systems and wastewater treatment facilities. Our customers primarily award contracts through one of two methods: the traditional public “competitive bid” method, in which price is the major determining factor, or through a request for proposals where contracts are awarded based on a combination of technical capability and price. Traditionally, our customers require each contractor to pre-qualify for construction business by meeting criteria that include technical capabilities and financial strength. We believe that our financial strength and outstanding record of performance on challenging civil works projects enables us to pre-qualify for projects in situations where smaller, less diversified contractors are unable to meet the qualification requirements. We believe this is a competitive advantage that makes us an attractive partner on the largest infrastructure projects and prestigious DBOM (design-build-operate-maintain) contracts, which combine the nation’s top contractors with engineering firms, equipment manufacturers and project development consultants in a competitive bid selection process to execute highly sophisticated public works projects. We have been active in civil construction since 1894 and believe we have developed a particular expertise in large, complex civil construction projects. ENR’s 2005 rankings based on revenue place us as the 14th largest builder in the 3 country in the mass transit and rail market. We have completed or are currently working on some of the most significant civil construction projects in the northeast including a portion of Boston’s “Big Dig” project, the Williamsburg Bridge reconstruction, New Jersey Light Rail Transit, the Triborough Bridge rehabilitation, Jamaica Station and a section of the Long Island Expressway. In January 2005, we acquired Cherry Hill to expand our presence in the Mid-Atlantic and southeast regions of the United States. Cherry Hill specializes in excavation, foundations, paving and construction of civil infrastructure. Management Services Segment Our management services segment provides diversified construction, design-build and maintenance services to the U.S. military and government agencies as well as power producers, surety companies and multi-national corporations in the United States and overseas. We believe customers choose our services based on our ability to plan and execute rapid response assignments and multi-year contracts through our diversified construction and design-build abilities. In addition, we believe we have demonstrated consistently superior performance on competitively bid or negotiated multi-year, multi-trade, task order and ID/IQ (Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity) construction programs. We have been chosen by the federal government for significant projects related to defense and reconstruction projects in Iraq and Afghanistan. For example, we are currently working on the reconstruction of electric power facilities in southern Iraq. In addition, we completed two projects to construct buildings and infrastructure at Afghan National Army bases near Kabul and have substantially completed two complete 6,000-person bases in northern and eastern Afghanistan. We believe we are well positioned to capture additional projects that involve long-term contracts and provide a recurring source of revenues as the level of government expenditures for defense and homeland security has increased in response to the global threat of terrorism. For example, we have recently completed all work on a multi-year contract with the U.S. Department of State, Office of Overseas Buildings Operations, to perform design-build security upgrades at U.S. embassies and consulates throughout the world including Argentina, Brazil, Czech Republic, Laos, Pakistan, the Philippines and Taiwan. We are currently completing a separate contract to consolidate facilities for increased security at the U.S. Embassy in Islamabad, Pakistan. In addition, our proven abilities with federal government projects have enabled us to win contracts from private defense contractors who are executing projects for the federal government. For example, we have been awarded design and construction contracts by Raytheon Integrated Defense Systems for upgrades to radar facilities at Beale Air Force Base in California, the Cobra Dane Facility on Shemya Island, Alaska, and at a Royal Air Force facility in Fylingdales, England to meet the requirements of a new early warning radar system. We also provide diversified management services to power producers, surety companies and multi-national corporations. Under a five-year contract expiring at the end of 2006, we provide planning, management, maintenance and modification services at 10 nuclear power generating stations, including 17 operating units. We are also under agreement with a major North American surety company to provide rapid response, contract completion services. Upon notification from the surety of a contractor bond default, we provide management or general contracting services to fulfill the contractual and financial obligations of the surety. Markets and Customers Information on lines of business and foreign business is included under the following captions of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005. Annual Report on Form 10-K Caption Page Number ---------------------- Selected Consolidated Financial Information 27 - 28 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 - 45 Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements entitled "Business Segments" 83 - 85 While the "Selected Consolidated Financial Information" presents certain business segment information for purposes of consistency of presentation for the five years ended December 31, 2005, additional business segment information required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, "Disclosures About Segments of an 4 Enterprise and Related Information", for the three years ended December 31, 2005 is included in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our construction services are targeted toward end markets that are diversified across project types, client characteristics and geographic locations. Revenues by business segment for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 are set forth below: Revenues by Segment Year Ended December 31, --------------------------------------------- 2005 2004 2003 ------------- ------------- ------------- (in thousands) Building $1,181,103 $ 1,298,771 $ 898,254 Civil 275,584 138,095 176,877 Management Services 276,790 405,449 298,972 ------------- ------------- ------------- Total $1,733,477 $ 1,842,315 $ 1,374,103 ============= ============= ============= Revenues by end market for the building segment for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 are set forth below: Building Segment Revenues by End Market -------------------------------------------------- 2005 2004 2003 ------------- -------------- ------------- (in thousands) Hospitality and Gaming $ 748,333 $ 1,042,671 $ 541,575 Sports and Entertainment 5,035 10,753 126,705 Education Facilities 107,444 111,296 98,730 Transportation Facilities 9,171 34,801 46,266 Healthcare Facilities 118,335 25,206 53,351 Condominiums 82,028 5,274 - Other 110,757 68,770 31,627 ------------- -------------- ------------- Total $ 1,181,103 $ 1,298,771 $ 898,254 ============= ============== ============= Revenues by end market for the civil segment for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 are set forth below: Civil Segment Revenues by End Market ----------------------------------------------- 2005 2004 2003 ------------ ------------ ------------- (in thousands) Highways $ 69,464 $ 17,394 $ 64,322 Bridges 53,102 39,868 16,519 Mass Transit 57,247 46,509 84,967 Sitework 53,321 - - Wastewater Treatment and Other 42,450 34,324 11,069 ------------ ------------ ------------- Total $ 275,584 $ 138,095 $ 176,877 ============ ============ ============= Revenues by end market for the management services segment for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 are set forth below: 5 Management Services Segment Revenues by End Market ----------------------------------------------- 2005 2004 2003 ------------- ------------ ------------ (in thousands) U.S. Government Services $188,147 $329,095 $218,688 Power Facilities Maintenance 69,320 59,945 51,724 Other 19,323 16,409 28,560 ------------- ------------ ------------ Total $276,790 $405,449 $298,972 ============= ============ ============ We provide our services to a broad range of private and public customers. The allocation of our revenues by client source for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 are set forth below: Revenues by Client Source Year Ended December 31, ----------------------------------- 2005 2004 2003 -------- ---------- --------- Private Owners 69% 67% 61% State and Local Governments 19 15 23 Federal Governmental Agencies 12 18 16 -------- ---------- --------- 100% 100% 100% ======== ========== ========= Private Owners. We derived approximately 69% of our revenues from private customers during 2005. Our private customers include major hospitality and gaming resort owners, Native American sovereign nations, public corporations, private developers, healthcare companies and a leading owner and operator of power facilities. We provide services to our private customers primarily through negotiated contract arrangements, as opposed to competitive bids. State and Local Governments. We derived approximately 19% of our revenues from state and local government customers during 2005. Our state and local government customers include state transportation departments, state and local correctional departments, metropolitan authorities, cities, municipal agencies, school districts and public universities. We provide services to our state and local customers primarily pursuant to contracts awarded through competitive bidding processes. Our civil contracting services are concentrated in the eastern United States, principally in the metropolitan New York market. Our building construction services for state and local government customers, which have included schools and dormitories, correctional and healthcare facilities, parking structures and municipal buildings, are in locations throughout the country. Since our acquisition of Cummings in January 2003, we have been active in providing construction services for local government customers in Florida. Federal Governmental Agencies. We derived approximately 12% of our revenues from federal governmental agencies during 2005. These agencies have included the U.S. State Department, the U.S. Navy and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. We provide services to federal agencies primarily pursuant to contracts for specific or multi-year assignments that involve new construction or infrastructure improvements. A substantial portion of our revenues from federal agencies is derived from projects in overseas locations. We expect this to continue for the foreseeable future as a result of our expanding base of experience and relationships with federal agencies, together with an anticipated favorable expenditure trend for defense, security and reconstruction work. Backlog We include a construction project in our backlog at such time as a contract is awarded or a firm letter of commitment is obtained and funding is in place. As a result, the backlog figures are firm, subject only to the cancellation provisions contained in the various contracts. Historically, these provisions have not had a material adverse effect on us. As of December 31, 2005, we had an all-time record construction backlog of $7.898 billion compared to $1.151 billion at December 31, 2004 and $1.666 billion at December 31, 2003. The backlog at December 31, 2005 includes $1.170 billion added due to our acquisitions of Rudolph and Sletten and Cherry Hill in 2005. Backlog is summarized 6 below by business segment as of December 31, 2005 and 2004: Backlog by Business Segment -------------------------------------------------- December 31, December 31, 2005 2004 ------------------------ ----------------------- (dollars in thousands) Building $ 7,180,369 91% $ 570,067 50% Civil 422,988 5 230,711 20 Management Services 294,427 4 350,697 30 -------------- ------- ------------- ------ Total $ 7,897,784 100% $ 1,151,475 100% ============== ======= ============= ====== We estimate that approximately $5.710 billion, or 72% of our backlog at December 31, 2005 will not be completed in 2006. Backlog by end market for the building segment as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 is set forth below: Building Segment Backlog by End Market ------------------------------------------------------- December 31, December 31, 2005 2004 -------------------------- ------------------------- (dollars in thousands) Hospitality and Gaming $ 5,577,482 78% $ 406,869 71% Sports and Entertainment 12,227 - 3,260 1 Education Facilities 104,646 1 99,221 17 Transportation Facilities 6,807 - 9,806 2 Healthcare Facilities 786,644 11 4,393 1 Condominiums 489,321 7 7,986 1 Other 203,242 3 38,532 7 --------------- ------- --------------- ------- Total $ 7,180,369 100% $ 570,067 100% =============== ======= =============== ======= Backlog by end market for the civil segment as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 is set forth below: Civil Segment Backlog by End Market ------------------------------------------------------------ December 31, December 31, 2005 2004 ---------------------------- ---------------------------- (dollars in thousands) Highways $193,162 46% $ 12,243 6% Bridges 106,956 25 76,984 33 Mass Transit 32,891 8 53,570 23 Sitework 37,666 9 - - Wastewater Treatment and Other 52,313 12 87,914 38 ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------ Total $422,988 100% $230,711 100% ============ ============ ============ ============ Backlog by end market for the management services segment as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 is set forth below: Management Services Segment Backlog by End Market ------------------------------------------------------------- December 31, December 31, 2005 2004 ----------------------------- ---------------------------- (dollars in thousands) U.S. Government Services $213,228 72% $231,145 66% Power Facilities Maintenance 72,856 25 113,239 32 Other 8,343 3 6,313 2 ------------- ------------ ------------ ------------ Total $294,427 100% $350,697 100% ============= ============ ============ ============ 7 Competition The construction industry is highly competitive and the markets in which we compete have numerous and often larger companies that provide similar services. In certain end markets of the building segment, such as hospitality and gaming, we are one of the largest providers of construction services in the United States, but within other end markets of the building segment, and within the civil and management services segments, there are competitors with significantly greater capabilities and resources. In our building segment, we compete with a variety of national and regional contractors. In the west, our primary competitors are Marnell-Carrao, Huntcor and McCarthy. In the northeast, our primary competitors are Suffolk, Gilbane and Turner and in the southeast our primary competitors include Centex-Rooney, James B. Pirtle and Whiting-Turner. In our management services segment, we compete principally with national engineering and construction firms such as Fluor, Washington Group International and Kellogg Brown & Root. In our civil segment, we compete principally with large civil construction firms that operate in the northeast, including Slattery/Skanska, Granite Construction/Halmar, Tully and Schiavone. We believe price, experience, reputation, responsiveness, customer relationships, project completion track record and quality of work are key factors in customers awarding contracts across our end markets. Types of Contracts and The Contract Process Type of Contracts The general contracting and management services we provide consist of planning and scheduling the manpower, equipment, materials and subcontractors required for the timely completion of a project in accordance with the terms, plans and specifications contained in a construction contract. We provide these services by entering into traditional general contracting arrangements, such as fixed price, guaranteed maximum price and cost plus award fee contracts and, to a lesser extent, construction management or design-build contracting arrangements. These contract types and the risks generally inherent therein are discussed below: Fixed price (FP) contracts, which include fixed unit price contracts, are generally used in competitively bid public civil construction projects and, to a lesser degree, building construction projects and generally commit the contractor to provide all of the resources required to complete a project for a fixed sum or at fixed unit prices. Usually FP contracts transfer more risk to the contractor but offer the opportunity, under favorable circumstances, for greater profits. FP contracts represent a significant portion of our publicly bid civil construction projects. Cost plus fee (Cost Plus) contracts provide for reimbursement of the costs required to complete a project plus a stipulated fee arrangement. Cost Plus contracts include cost plus fixed fee (CPFF) contracts and cost plus award fee (CPAF) contracts. CPFF contracts provide for reimbursement of the costs required to complete a project plus a fixed fee. CPAF contracts provide for reimbursement of the costs required to complete a project plus a base fee as well as an incentive fee based on cost and/or schedule performance. Cost Plus contracts serve to minimize the contractor's financial risk, but may also limit profits. Services provided by our management services segment to various U.S. government agencies often are performed under Cost Plus contracts which subject us to compliance with the Federal Acquisition Regulations, Cost Accounting Standards and to audits by the Defense Contract Audit Agency. Guaranteed maximum price (GMP) contracts provide for a cost plus fee arrangement up to a maximum agreed upon price. These contracts place risks on the contractor for amounts in excess of the GMP, but may permit an opportunity for greater profits than under Cost Plus contracts through sharing agreements with the owner on any cost savings that may be realized. Services provided by our building segment to various private customers often are performed under GMP contracts. Construction management (CM) contracts are those under which a contractor agrees to manage a project for the owner for an agreed-upon fee, which may be fixed or may vary based upon negotiated factors. CM contracts serve to minimize the contractor's financial risk, but may also limit profit relative to the overall scope of a project. 8 Design-build contracts are those under which a contractor provides both design and construction services for a customer. These contracts may be either fixed price contracts or cost plus fee contracts. Historically, a high percentage of our contracts have been of the fixed price and GMP type. A summary of revenues and backlog by type of contract for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 follows: Backlog as of December 31, ---------------------------- 2005 2004 2003 ------- ------- ------- Fixed Price 8% 32% 30% Cost Plus, GMP or CM 92 68 70 ------- ------- ------- 100% 100% 100% ======= ======= ======= Revenues for the Year Ended December 31, ---------------------------- 2005 2004 2003 ------- ------- ------- Fixed Price 25% 20% 18% Cost Plus, GMP or CM 75 80 82 ------- ------- ------- 100% 100% 100% ======= ======= ======= The Contract Process We identify potential projects from a variety of sources, including advertisements by federal, state and local governmental agencies, through the efforts of our business development personnel and through meetings with other participants in the construction industry such as architects and engineers. After determining which projects are available, we make a decision on which projects to pursue based on such factors as project size, duration, availability of personnel, current backlog, competitive advantages and disadvantages, prior experience, contracting agency or owner, source of project funding, geographic location and type of contract. After deciding which contracts to pursue, we generally have to complete a prequalification process with the applicable agency or customer. The prequalification process generally limits bidders to those companies with operational experience and financial capability to effectively complete the particular project(s) in accordance with the plans, specifications and construction schedule. The estimating process typically involves three phases. Initially, we perform a detailed review of the plans and specifications, summarize the various types of work involved and related estimated quantities, determine the project duration or schedule and highlight the unique and riskier aspects of the project. After the initial review, we decide whether or not to continue to pursue the project. If the answer is positive, we perform the second phase of the estimating process which consists of estimating the cost and availability of labor, material, equipment, subcontractors and the project team required to complete the project on time and in accordance with the plans and specifications. The final phase consists of a detailed review of the estimate by management including, among other things, assumptions regarding cost, approach, means and methods, productivity and risk. After the final review of the cost estimate, management adds an amount for profit to arrive at the total bid amount. Public bids to various governmental agencies are generally awarded to the lowest bidder. Requests for proposals or negotiated contracts with public or private customers are generally awarded based on a combination of technical capability and price, taking into consideration factors such as project schedule and prior experience. During the construction phase of a project, we monitor our progress by comparing actual costs incurred and quantities completed to date with budgeted amounts and the project schedule and periodically, at a minimum on a quarterly basis, prepare an updated estimate of total forecasted revenue, cost and profit for the project. 9 During the ordinary course of most projects, the customer, and sometimes the contractor, initiate modifications or changes to the original contract to reflect, among other things, changes in specifications or design, construction method or manner of performance, facilities, equipment, materials, site conditions and period for completion of the work. Generally the scope and price of these modifications are documented in a "change order" to the original contract and reviewed, approved and paid in accordance with the normal change order provisions of the contract. Often a contract requires us to perform extra or change order work as directed by the customer even if the customer has not agreed in advance on the scope or price of the work to be performed. This process may result in disputes over whether the work performed is beyond the scope of the work included in the original project plans and specifications or, if the customer agrees that the work performed qualifies as extra work, the price the customer is willing to pay for the extra work. Even when the customer agrees to pay for the extra work, we may be required to fund the cost of such work for a lengthy period of time until the change order is approved and funded by the customer. Also, unapproved change orders, contract disputes or claims result in costs being incurred by us that cannot be billed currently and, therefore, are reflected as "Unbilled Work" in our balance sheet. See Note 1(d) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, any delay caused by the extra work may adversely impact the timely scheduling of other project work and our ability to meet specified contract milestone dates. The process for resolving claims varies from one contract to another but, in general, we attempt to resolve claims at the project supervisory level through the normal change order process or with higher levels of management within our organization and the customer's organization. Depending upon the terms of the contract, claim resolution may involve a variety of other resolution methods, including mediation, binding or non-binding arbitration or litigation. Regardless of the process, when a potential claim arises on a project, we typically have the contractual obligation to perform the work and incur the related costs. We do not recoup the costs until the claim is resolved. It is not uncommon for the claim resolution process to last months or years, especially if it involves litigation. Our contracts generally involve work durations in excess of one year. Revenue from our contracts in process is generally recorded under the percentage of completion contract accounting method. For a more detailed discussion of our policy in these areas, see Note 1(d) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, entitled "Method of Accounting for Contracts". Construction Costs While our business may experience some adverse consequences if shortages develop or if prices for materials, labor or equipment increase excessively, provisions in certain types of contracts often shift all or a major portion of any adverse impact to the customer. On fixed price contracts, we attempt to insulate ourselves from the unfavorable effects of inflation by incorporating escalating wage and price assumptions, where appropriate, into our construction bids and by obtaining firm fixed price quotes from major subcontractors and material suppliers at the time of the bid period. Construction and other materials used in our construction activities are generally available locally from multiple sources and have been in adequate supply during recent years. Construction work in selected overseas areas primarily employs expatriate and local labor which can usually be obtained as required. Environmental Matters Our properties and operations are subject to federal, state and municipal laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including requirements for water discharges, air emissions, the use, management and disposal of solid or hazardous materials or wastes and the cleanup of contamination. For example, we must apply water or chemicals to reduce dust on road construction projects and to contain contaminants in storm run-off water at construction sites. In certain circumstances, we may also be required to hire subcontractors to dispose of hazardous materials encountered on a project in accordance with a plan approved in advance by the owner. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. However, future requirements or amendments to current laws or regulations imposing more stringent requirements could require us to incur additional costs to maintain or achieve compliance. In addition, some environmental laws, such as the U.S. federal "Superfund" law and similar state statutes, can 10 impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former owners or operators or upon parties who sent wastes to these sites, regardless of who owned the site at the time of the release or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity. Contaminants have been detected at some of the sites that we own, or where we worked as a contractor in the past, and we have incurred costs for investigation or remediation of hazardous substances. We also believe that our liability for these sites will not be material, either individually or in the aggregate, and have pollution legal liability insurance available for such matters. We believe that we have minimal exposure to environmental liability as a result of the activities of Perini Environmental Services, Inc., or Perini Environmental, a wholly owned subsidiary of Perini that was phased out during 1997. Perini Environmental provided hazardous waste engineering and construction services to both private clients and public agencies nationwide. Perini Environmental was responsible for compliance with applicable laws in connection with its activities; however, Perini and Perini Environmental generally carried insurance or received indemnification from customers to cover the risks associated with the remediation business. We own real estate in six states and, as an owner, are subject to laws governing environmental responsibility and liability based on ownership. We are not aware of any significant environmental liability associated with our ownership of real estate. Insurance and Bonding All of our properties and equipment, both directly owned or owned through joint ventures with others, are covered by insurance and management believes that such insurance is adequate. In addition, we maintain general liability, excess liability and workers' compensation insurance in amounts that we believe are consistent with our risk of loss and industry practice. Due to tight conditions in the insurance market, since the beginning of 2002 we have been purchasing workers' compensation and general liability policies at substantially higher premiums with a self-insured deductible limit of $250,000 per occurrence, with appropriate aggregate caps on losses retained. As a normal part of the construction business, we are often required to provide various types of surety bonds as an additional level of security of our performance. We have surety arrangements with several sureties, one of which we have dealt with for over 75 years, and another of which owned approximately 10.2% of our outstanding common stock prior to selling all of its shares of our common stock in December 2005. (See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Employees The total number of personnel employed by us is subject to seasonal fluctuations, the volume of construction in progress and the relative amount of work performed by subcontractors. During 2005, our average number of employees was approximately 4,900 with a maximum of approximately 6,500 and a minimum of approximately 3,900. We operate primarily as a union contractor. As such, we are signatory to numerous local and regional collective bargaining agreements, both directly and through trade associations, throughout the country. These agreements cover all necessary union crafts and are subject to various renewal dates. Estimated amounts for wage escalation related to the expiration of union contracts are included in our bids on various projects and, as a result, the expiration of any union contract in the next fiscal year is not expected to have any material impact on us. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 2,475 of our total of 3,900 employees were union employees. During the past several years, we have not experienced any work stoppages caused by our union employees. Available Information Our website address is www.perini.com. The information contained on our website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available, free of charge on our Internet website our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such materials with, or furnished it to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. You many read and copy any document we file at the SEC Headquarters at Office of Investor Education and Assistance, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Also available on our website are our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Corporate Governance Guidelines, the charters of the 11 Committees of our Board of Directors and reports under Section 16 of the Exchange Act of transactions in our stock by our directors and executive officers. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to a number of risks, including those summarized below. Such risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See our disclosure under "Forward-looking Statements" on page 2. Risks Relating to Our Business: We may not fully realize the revenue value reported in our backlog. As of December 31, 2005, our backlog of uncompleted construction work was approximately $7.9 billion which represents a 586% increase from our backlog of $1.15 billion as of December 31, 2004. We include a construction project in our backlog at such time as a contract is awarded or a firm letter of commitment is obtained and funding is in place. The revenue projected in our backlog may not be realized or, if realized, may not result in profits. For example, if a project reflected in our backlog is terminated, suspended or reduced in scope, it would result in a reduction to our backlog which would reduce, potentially to a material extent, the revenues and profits we actually received from contracts in backlog. If a customer cancels a project, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. Significant cancellations or delays of projects in our backlog could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, cash flows and profits. We will require substantial personnel resources to execute and perform on our contracts in backlog. Our ability to execute and perform on our contracts in backlog depends in large part upon our ability to hire and retain highly skilled personnel, including engineering, project management and senior management professionals. In addition, our construction projects require a significant amount of trade labor resources, such as carpenters, masons and other skilled workers. Given the recent increase in our contract backlog, we will require even more qualified personnel to perform construction projects on time and within budget. Recent growth in the construction industry, particularly in areas with significant building activity such as Las Vegas, Nevada, has led to a corresponding increase in the demand for personnel resources and, in some cases, has resulted in labor shortages for certain types of personnel. Competition for these employees is intense. In the event we are unable to attract, hire and retain the requisite personnel necessary to execute and perform on our contract backlog, we may experience delays in completing projects in accordance with project schedules, which may have an adverse effect on our financial results and harm our reputation. Further, the increased demand for personnel may result in higher labor costs which could cause us to exceed the budget on a project, which in turn may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and harm our relationships with our customers. In addition, if we lack the personnel necessary to perform on our current contract backlog, we may find it necessary to curtail our bidding on new projects. We are subject to significant legal proceedings, which, if determined adversely to us, could harm our reputation, preclude us from bidding on future projects and/or have a material adverse effect on us. We are involved in various lawsuits, including the legal proceedings described under Item 3 -- "Legal Proceedings." While some of these proceedings involve claims against us for significant amounts, we do not believe that these or any other pending litigation will ultimately result in a final judgment against us that would materially adversely affect us. Litigation is, however, inherently uncertain and it is not possible to predict what the final outcome will be of any legal proceeding. A final judgment against us would require us to record the related liability and fund the payment of the judgment and, if such adverse judgment is significant, it could have a material adverse effect on us. Legal proceedings resulting in judgments or findings against us may harm our reputation and prospects for future contract awards. 12 Our contracts require us to perform extra or change order work, which can result in disputes and adversely affect our working capital, profits and cash flows. Our contracts generally require us to perform extra or change order work as directed by the customer even if the customer has not agreed in advance on the scope or price of the work to be performed. This process can result in disputes over whether the work performed is beyond the scope of the work included in the original project plans and specifications or, if the customer agrees that the work performed qualifies as extra work, the price the customer is willing to pay for the extra work. Even when the customer agrees to pay for the extra work, we may be required to fund the cost of such work for a lengthy period of time until the change order is approved and funded by the customer. Also, unapproved change orders, contract disputes or claims cause us to incur costs that cannot be billed currently and therefore, are reflected as "unbilled work" in our balance sheet. See Note 1(d) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent our actual recoveries with respect to unapproved change orders, contract disputes or claims are lower than our estimates, the amount of any shortfall will reduce our revenues and the amount of unbilled work recorded on our balance sheet, and could have a material adverse effect on our working capital, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, any delay caused by the extra work may adversely impact the timely scheduling of other project work and our ability to meet specified contract milestone dates. For example, we are currently, along with our joint venture partners, pursuing a series of claims for additional contract time and compensation against the Massachusetts Highway Department for work performed by the joint venture on a portion of the Central Artery/Tunnel project in Boston, Massachusetts. During construction, the Massachusetts Highway Department ordered the joint venture to perform changes to the work and issued related direct cost changes with an estimated value, excluding time delay and inefficiency costs, in excess of $100 million. In addition, we encountered a number of unforeseen conditions during construction that greatly increased our cost of performance. See Item 3.-- "Legal Proceedings." Economic, political and other risks associated with our international operations involve risks not faced by our domestic competitors, which could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. We derived approximately 11% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 from our work on projects located outside of the United States, including projects in Iraq and Afghanistan. We expect non-U.S. projects to continue to contribute to our revenues and earnings for the foreseeable future. Our international operations expose us to risks inherent in doing business outside the United States, including: political risks, including risks of loss due to civil disturbances, acts of terrorism, acts of war, guerilla activities and insurrection; unstable economic, financial and market conditions; potential incompatibility with foreign joint venture partners; foreign currency controls and fluctuations; trade restrictions; variations in taxes; and changes in labor conditions, labor strikes and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. Any of these factors could harm our international operations and, consequently, our business and consolidated operating results. Specifically, failure to successfully manage international operations could result in higher operating costs than anticipated or could delay or preclude altogether our ability to generate revenues in key international markets. A decrease in U.S. government funding or change in government plans, particularly with respect to rebuilding Iraq, as well as the risks associated with undertaking projects in these countries, could adversely affect the continuation of existing projects or the number of projects available to us in the future. We have performed design-build security upgrades at United States embassies and consulates throughout the 13 world, and we are currently engaged in significant building and infrastructure reconstruction activities in Iraq. The United States federal government has approved various spending bills for the reconstruction and defense of Iraq and has allocated significant funds to the defense of United States interests around the world from the threat of terrorism. A decrease in government funding of these projects or a decision by the United States federal government to reduce or eliminate the use of outside contractors to perform this work would decrease the number of projects available to us and limit our ability to obtain new contracts in this area. Our projects in Iraq and other areas of political and economic instability carry with them specific security and operational risks. Intentional or unintentional acts in those countries could result in damage to our construction sites or harm to our employees and could result in our decision to withdraw our operations from the area. Also, as a result of these acts, the United States federal government could decide to cancel or suspend our operations in these areas. Increased regulation of the hospitality and gaming industry could reduce the number of future hospitality and gaming projects available, which, in turn, could adversely affect our future earnings. The hospitality and gaming industry is regulated extensively by federal and state regulatory bodies, including state gaming commissions, the National Indian Gaming Commission and state and federal taxing and law enforcement agencies. From time to time, legislation is proposed in the legislatures of some of these jurisdictions that, if enacted, could adversely affect the tax, regulatory, operational or other aspects of the hospitality and gaming industry. Legislation of this type may be enacted in the future. The United States federal government has also previously considered a federal tax on casino revenues and may consider such a tax in the future. In addition, companies that operate in the hospitality and gaming industry are currently subject to significant state and local taxes and fees in addition to normal federal and state corporate income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. For example, a new tax law enacted in Nevada in July, 2003 increased the taxes applicable to Nevada gaming operations. Similar legislation or new hospitality and gaming regulations could deter future hospitality and gaming construction projects in jurisdictions in which we derive significant revenues. As a result, the enactment of such legislation or regulations could adversely affect our future earnings. A decrease in government funding of infrastructure projects could reduce revenues within our civil construction business segment. Our civil construction markets are dependent on the amount of infrastructure work funded by various governmental agencies, which, in turn, depends on the condition of the existing infrastructure, the need for new or expanded infrastructure and federal, state or local government spending levels. A decrease in government funding of infrastructure projects could decrease the number of civil construction projects available and limit our ability to obtain new contracts, which could reduce revenues within our civil construction segment. If we are unable to accurately estimate the overall risks, revenues or costs on a contract, we may achieve a lower than anticipated profit or incur a loss on that contract. We generally enter into four principal types of contracts with our clients: fixed price contracts, cost plus fee contracts, guaranteed maximum price contracts, and, to a lesser extent, construction management or design-build contracts. We derive a significant portion of our revenues and backlog from fixed price contracts. For example, we derived approximately 25% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 from fixed price contracts. Fixed price contracts require us to perform the contract for a fixed price irrespective of our actual costs. As a result, we realize a profit on these contracts only if we successfully control our costs and avoid cost overruns. Cost plus fee contracts provide for reimbursement of the costs required to complete a project, but generally have a lower base fee and an incentive fee based on cost and/or schedule performance. If our costs exceed the revenues available under such a contract or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract, we may not receive reimbursement for these costs. Guaranteed maximum price contracts provide for a cost plus fee arrangement up to a maximum agreed-upon 14 price. These contracts also place the risk on us for cost overruns that exceed the guaranteed maximum price. Construction management contracts are those under which we agree to manage a project for a customer for an agreed upon fee, which may be fixed or may vary based upon negotiated factors. Profitability on these types of contracts is driven by changes in the scope of work or design issues, which could cause cost overruns beyond our control and limit profits on these contracts. Cost overruns, whether due to inefficiency, faulty estimates or other factors, result in lower profit or a loss on a project. A significant number of our contracts are based in part on cost estimates that are subject to a number of assumptions. If our estimates of the overall risks, revenues or costs prove inaccurate or circumstances change, we may incur a lower profit or a loss on that contract. The percentage-of-completion method of accounting for contract revenues may result in material adjustments, which could result in a charge against our earnings. We recognize contract revenues using the percentage-of-completion method. Under this method, estimated contract revenues are recognized by applying the percentage of completion of the project for the period to the total estimated revenues for the contract. Estimated contract losses are recognized in full when determined. Total contract revenues and cost estimates are reviewed and revised at a minimum on a quarterly basis as the work progresses and as change orders are approved. Adjustments based upon the percentage of completion are reflected in contract revenues in the period when these estimates are revised. To the extent that these adjustments result in an increase, a reduction or an elimination of previously reported contract profit, we recognize a credit or a charge against current earnings, which could be material. We are subject to a number of risks as a U.S. government contractor, which could either harm our reputation, result in fines or penalties against us and/or adversely impact our financial condition. We are a provider of services to U.S. government agencies and therefore are exposed to risks associated with government contracting. We must observe laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts which affect how we do business with our U.S. government customers and may impose added costs on our business. For example, the Federal Acquisition Regulation and the industrial security regulations of the U.S. Department of Defense and related laws include provisions that allow our U.S. government customers to terminate or not renew our contracts if we come under foreign ownership, control or influence and require us to disclose and certify cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations. Our failure to comply with these or other laws and regulations could result in contract terminations, suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. government, civil fines and damages and criminal prosecution and penalties, any of which could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. U.S. government agencies generally can terminate or modify their contract with us at their convenience and some government contracts must be renewed annually. If a government agency terminates or fails to renew a contract, our backlog may be reduced. If a government agency terminates a contract due to our unsatisfactory performance, it could result in liability to us and harm our ability to compete for future contracts. U.S. government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency, or DCAA, routinely audit and investigate U.S. government contracts and U.S. government contractors' administrative processes and systems. These agencies review our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. They also review our compliance with regulations and policies and the adequacy of our internal control systems and policies, including our purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and any such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. Moreover, if any of the administrative processes or systems is found not to comply with requirements, we may be subjected to increased government oversight and approval that could delay or otherwise adversely affect our ability to compete for or perform contracts. Therefore, an unfavorable outcome to an audit by the DCAA or another agency could cause our results to differ materially from those anticipated. If an investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, 15 including termination of contracts, forfeitures of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, we would suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Each of these results could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Our participation in construction joint ventures exposes us to liability and/or reputational harm for failures of our partners. We sometimes enter into joint venture arrangements with outside partners on a joint and several basis so that we can jointly bid on and execute a particular project, thereby reducing our financial or operational risk with respect to such projects. Success on these joint projects depends in large part on whether our joint venture partners satisfy their contractual obligations. If a joint venture partner fails to perform or is financially unable to bear its portion of required capital contributions, we could be required to make additional investments and provide additional services in order to make up for our partner's shortfall. Further, if we are unable to adequately address our partner's performance issues, the customer may terminate the project, which could result in legal liability to us, harm our reputation and reduce our profit on a project. For example, our joint venture partner, Mergentime, financially unable to fulfill its financial obligations to satisfy the liability to the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority resulting from the judgment described below under "Business - Legal Proceedings - Mergentime-Perini Joint Ventures vs. WMATA Matter." Our pension plan is underfunded and we may be required to make significant future contributions to the plan. Our defined benefit pension plan is a non-contributory pension plan covering substantially all of our employees. Benefits under our pension plan were frozen as of June 1, 2004. As of December 31, 2005, our pension plan was underfunded by approximately $22.0 million. We are required to make cash contributions to our pension plan to the extent necessary to comply with minimum funding requirements imposed by employee benefit and tax laws. The amount of any such required contributions is determined based on an annual actuarial valuation of the plan as performed by the plan's actuaries. During 2005, we voluntarily contributed $9.0 million in cash to our defined benefit pension plan. The amount of our future contributions will depend upon asset returns, then-current discount rates and a number of other factors, and, as a result, the amount we may elect or be required to contribute to our pension plan in the future may increase significantly. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Critical Accounting Policies--Defined Benefit Retirement Plan." The construction services industry is highly schedule driven, and our failure to meet schedule requirements of our contracts could adversely affect our reputation and/or expose us to financial liability. Many of our contracts are subject to specific completion schedule requirements and subject us to liquidated damages in the event the construction schedules are not achieved. Our failure to meet schedule requirements could subject us not only to liquidated damages, but could further subject us to liability for our customer's actual cost arising out of our delay and cause us to suffer damage to our reputation within our industry and customer base. Competition for new project awards is intense and our failure to compete effectively could reduce our market share and profits. New project awards are often determined through either a competitive bid basis or on a negotiated basis. Bid or negotiated contracts with public or private owners are generally awarded based upon price, but many times other factors, such as shorter project schedules or prior experience with the customer, influence the award of the contract. Within our industry, we compete with many national, regional and local construction firms. Some of these competitors have achieved greater market penetration than we have in the markets in which we compete, and some have greater financial and other resources than we do. As a result, we may need to accept lower contract margins or more fixed price or unit price contracts in order for us to compete against competitors that have the ability to accept awards at lower prices or have a pre-existing relationship with the customer. If we are unable to compete successfully in such markets, our relative market share and profits could be reduced. Economic downturns could reduce the level of consumer spending within the hospitality and gaming industry, which could adversely affect demand for our services. 16 Consumer spending in the hospitality and gaming industry is discretionary and may decline during economic downturns, when consumers have less disposable income. Even an uncertain economic outlook may adversely affect consumer spending in hospitality and gaming operations, as consumers may spend less in anticipation of a potential economic downturn. Decreased spending in the hospitality and gaming market could deter new projects within the industry and the expansion or renovation of existing hospitality and gaming facilities, which could impact our revenues and earnings. An inability to obtain bonding could limit the number of projects we are able to pursue. As is customary in the construction business, we often are required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance under construction contracts. Our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise and certain external factors, including the overall capacity of the surety market. Surety companies consider such factors in relationship to the amount of our backlog and their underwriting standards, which may change from time to time. Since 2001, the surety industry has undergone significant changes with several companies withdrawing completely from the industry or significantly reducing their bonding commitment. In addition, certain reinsurers of surety risk have limited their participation in this market. Therefore, we could be unable to obtain surety bonds, when required, which could adversely affect our future results of operations and revenues. Conflicts of interest may arise involving our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and certain of our directors. Certain of our directors serve or may serve as officers, directors or principals of our competitors. Ronald N. Tutor, our chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors, is the sole shareholder and chief executive officer of Tutor-Saliba Corporation, or Tutor-Saliba, a California corporation that beneficially owns approximately 15.2% of our common stock. Mr. Tutor also devotes a substantial amount of time to the business activities of Tutor-Saliba. Like us, Tutor-Saliba is engaged in the construction industry, and we have participated in joint ventures with Tutor-Saliba and expect to continue to do so. In addition, we have also participated in certain joint ventures with O&G Industries, Inc., whose Vice-Chairman is Raymond R. Oneglia, one or our directors. As in any joint venture, we could have disagreements with our joint venture partner over the operation of a joint venture or a joint venture could be involved in disputes with third parties, where we may or may not have an identity of interest with our joint venture partner. These relationships also may create conflicts of interest including new business and other corporate opportunities. We could incur significant costs as a result of liability under environmental laws. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, the discharge of pollutants into air and water, the handling, storage and disposal of solid or hazardous materials or wastes and the remediation of contamination. We own, lease, or have used in our construction, real estate and environmental remediation operations property upon which solid or hazardous wastes may have been disposed of or released. Any release of such materials or wastes by us or by third parties who operated on those properties may result in liability for investigation or remediation costs. In addition, violations of these environmental laws and regulations could subject us and our management to fines, civil and criminal penalties, clean-up costs and third party property damage or personal injury claims. Various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations may impose liability for the entire cost of investigation and clean-up of hazardous or toxic substances. These laws may impose liability without regard to ownership at the time of the contamination or whether or not we caused the presence of contaminants. Our reputation may be harmed and our future earnings may be negatively impacted if we are unable to retain key members of our management. Our business substantially depends on the continued service of key members of our management, particularly Ronald N. Tutor, Robert Band, Craig W. Shaw, Zohrab B. Marashlian and Michael E. Ciskey, who, collectively, have an average of 31 years in the construction industry and 25 years with us. Losing the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business until a suitable replacement can be found. We believe that they could not quickly be replaced with executives of equal experience and capabilities. None of these executives is bound by employment agreements with us and we do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of these executives. 17 Our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by work stoppages and other labor problems. We are a signatory to numerous local and regional collective bargaining agreements, both directly and through trade associations. Future agreements reached in collective bargaining could increase our operating costs and reduce our profits as a result of increased wages and benefits. If we or our trade associations are unable to negotiate with any of our unions, we might experience strikes, work stoppages or increased operating costs as a result of higher than anticipated wages or benefits. If our unionized workers engage in a strike or other work stoppage, or our non-unionized employees become unionized, we could experience a disruption of our operations and higher ongoing labor costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to restrictive covenants under our credit facility that could limit our flexibility in managing the business. Our credit facility imposes operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions include, among other things, limitations on our ability to: create liens or other encumbrances; enter into certain types of transactions with our affiliates; make certain capital expenditures; make investments, loans or other guarantees; sell or otherwise dispose of a portion of our assets; or merge or consolidate with another entity. In addition, our credit facility prohibits us from incurring debt, other than debt incurred for financing our corporate headquarters, insurance premiums and construction equipment, from other sources without the consent of our lenders. The amount available to us under our credit facility at December 31, 2005 was $42.8 million. Our credit facility contains financial covenants that require us to maintain minimum tangible net worth, fixed charge coverage and operating profit levels as well as a minimum working capital ratio. Our ability to borrow funds for any purpose will depend on our satisfying these tests. If we are unable to meet the terms of the financial covenants or fail to comply with any of the other restrictions contained in our credit facility, an event of default could occur. An event of default, if not waived by our lenders, could result in the acceleration of any outstanding indebtedness, causing such debt to become immediately due and payable. If such an acceleration occurs, we may not be able to repay such indebtedness on a timely basis. Since our credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets, acceleration of this debt could result in foreclosure of those assets. In the event of a foreclosure, we would be unable to conduct our business and may be forced to discontinue ongoing operations. We may have difficulty raising needed capital in the future, which could limit our available working capital and our ability to make acquisitions or future investments. We may require additional financing in order to make future investments and acquisitions or to provide needed additional working capital. Our ability to arrange such financing in the future will depend in part upon prevailing capital market conditions, as well as conditions in our business and our operating results; such factors may impact our efforts to arrange additional financing on terms satisfactory to us. We have pledged substantially all of our assets as collateral in connection with our credit facility. As a result, we may have difficulty obtaining additional financing in the future if such financing requires us to pledge our assets as collateral. If additional financing is obtained by the issuance of additional shares of common stock, we may experience a change of control. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to make future investments, take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities, or otherwise respond to competitive challenges. 18 Timing of the award and performance of contracts could adversely effect our operating results. At any point in time, we derive a substantial portion of our revenues directly or indirectly from a limited number of large construction projects. It is generally very difficult to predict whether and when we will receive such awards, as these contracts frequently involve a lengthy and complex bidding and selection process which is affected by a number of factors, such as market conditions, financing arrangements and governmental approvals. Because a significant portion of our revenues is generated from large projects, our results of operations and cash flows can fluctuate from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of our new contract awards. In addition, timing of the revenues, earnings and cash flows from our projects can be delayed by a number of factors, including weather conditions, delays in receiving material and equipment from vendors and changes in the scope of work to be performed. Such delays, if they occur, could have an adverse effect on our operating results for a particular period. Failure of our subcontractors to perform as anticipated could have a negative impact on our results. We subcontract a portion of many of our contracts to specialty subcontractors and we are ultimately responsible for the successful completion of their work. Although we seek to require bonding from our higher risk subcontractors, they are not always bondable and there is no guarantee that we will not incur a material loss due to subcontractor performance issues. Our acquisition strategy involves a number of risks, the realization of which could adversely impact our future revenues and the revenues of the businesses that we acquire. As a part of our growth strategy, we plan to pursue selective strategic acquisitions of businesses, and we may make additional acquisitions in the future. This strategy involves risks, including diversion of our management's attention, potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses and difficulties in integrating operations and systems. We cannot be certain that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition targets or consummate any such acquisition transactions on terms and conditions acceptable to us or that such acquisition transactions will be successful. An inability to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our operations could cause us to incur significant losses. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 