ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to a number of risks, including those summarized below. Such risks could have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not fully realize the revenue value reported in our backlog. As of December 31, 2012, our backlog of uncompleted construction work was approximately $5.6 billion. We include a construction project in our backlog at such time as a contract is awarded or a letter of commitment is obtained and adequate construction funding is in place. The revenue projected in our backlog may not be realized or, if realized, may not result in profits. For example, if a project reflected in our backlog is terminated, suspended or reduced in scope, it would result in a reduction to our backlog which could reduce, potentially to a material extent, the revenues and profits realized. If a customer cancels a project, we may be reimbursed for certain costs and profit thereon but typically have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. Significant cancellations or delays of projects in our backlog could have a material effect on future revenues, profits, and cash flows. Current economic conditions could adversely affect our operations. The deterioration of economic and financial market conditions in the United States and overseas throughout 2009-2012, including severe disruptions in the credit markets, could continue to adversely affect our results of operations in future periods. The continued instability in the financial markets has made it difficult for certain of our customers, including private owners and state and local governments, to access the credit markets to obtain financing or refinancing, as the case may be, to fund new construction projects on satisfactory terms or at all. State and local governments continue to face potentially significant budget shortfalls as a result of declining tax and other revenues, which may cause them to defer or cancel planned infrastructure projects. During 2012, we encountered increased levels of deferrals and delays related to new construction projects. Difficulty in obtaining adequate financing due to the unprecedented disruption in the credit markets may significantly increase the rate at which our customers defer, delay or cancel proposed new construction projects. Such deferrals, delays or cancellations could have an adverse impact on our future operating results. Instability in the financial markets may also impact a customer’s ability to pay us on a timely basis, or at all, for work on projects already under construction in accordance with the contract terms. Customer financing may be subject to periodic renewals and extensions of credit by the lender. As credit markets remain tight and difficult economic conditions persist, lenders may be unwilling to continue renewing or extending credit to a customer. Such deferral, delay or cancellation of credit by the lender could impact the customer’s ability to pay us, which could have an adverse impact on our future operating results. A significant portion of our operations are concentrated in California and New York. As a result, we are more susceptible to fluctuations caused by adverse economic or other conditions in these regions as opposed to others. Reductions in the level of consumer spending within the non-residential building industry and the level of federal, state and local government spending for infrastructure and other public projects could adversely affect the number of projects available to us in the future. With regard to the non-residential building industry, consumer spending is discretionary and may decline during economic downturns when consumers have less disposable income. Even an uncertain economic outlook may adversely affect consumer and private industry spending in various business operations, as consumers may spend less in anticipation of a potential economic downturn. Decreased spending in the non-residential building markets could deter new projects within the industry and the expansion or renovation of existing facilities. With regard to infrastructure and other public works spending, civil construction markets are dependent on the amount of infrastructure work funded by various government agencies which, in turn, depends on the condition of the existing infrastructure, the need for new or expanded infrastructure and federal, state or local government spending levels. A slowdown in economic activity in any of the markets that we serve may result in less spending on public works projects. In addition, a decrease or delay in government funding of infrastructure projects or delays in the implementation of voter-approved bond measures could decrease the number of civil construction projects available and limit our ability to obtain new contracts, which could reduce revenues within our Civil segment. In addition, budget shortfalls and credit rating downgrades in California and other states in which the Company is involved in significant infrastructure projects and any long-term impairment in the ability of state and local governments to finance construction projects by raising capital in the municipal bond market could curtail or delay the funding of future projects. Our Building segment is also involved in significant public works construction projects including healthcare facilities, educational facilities, and municipal and government facilities primarily in California and the southeastern United States. These projects also are dependent upon funding by various federal, state and local government agencies. A decrease in government funding of public healthcare and education facilities, particularly in those regions, could decrease the number and/or size of construction projects available and limit our ability to obtain new contracts in these markets, which could further reduce our revenues and earnings. 17 Table of Contents Economic, political and other risks and the level of U.S. government funding associated with our international operations could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. We derived approximately 5% or $185.7 million of revenues and approximately $18.7 million of income from construction operations for the year ended December 31, 2012 from our work on projects located outside of the United States, including projects in Iraq, Afghanistan and Guam. Our international operations expose us to risks inherent in doing business in certain hostile regions outside the United States, including: political risks, risks of loss due to civil disturbances, guerilla activities and insurrection; acts of terrorism and acts of war; unstable economic, financial and market conditions; potential incompatibility with foreign subcontractors and vendors; foreign currency controls and fluctuations; trade restrictions; variations in taxes; and changes in labor conditions, labor strikes and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. Failure to successfully manage risks associated with our international operations could result in higher operating costs than anticipated or could delay or limit our ability to generate revenues and income from construction operations in key international markets. With regard to the U.S. Government’s funding of construction projects in Iraq, Afghanistan and Guam, the United States federal government has approved various spending bills for the reconstruction and defense of Iraq and Afghanistan and has allocated significant funds to the defense of United States interests around the world from the threat of terrorism. The United States federal government has also approved funds for development in conjunction with the relocation of military personnel into Guam. A decrease in government funding of these projects or a decision by the United States federal government to accelerate the withdrawal of troops and support personnel from Afghanistan or reduce or eliminate the use of outside contractors to perform such work would decrease the number of projects available to us and limit our ability to obtain new contracts in this area. Competition for new project awards is intense and our failure to compete effectively could reduce our market share and profits. New project awards are often determined through either a competitive bid basis or on a negotiated basis. Bid or negotiated contracts with public or private owners are generally awarded based upon price, but many times take into account other factors, such as shorter project schedules or prior experience with the customer. Within our industry, we compete with many national, regional and local construction firms. Some of these competitors have achieved greater market penetration than we have in the markets in which we compete, and some have greater financial and other resources than we do. As a result, we may need to accept lower contract margins or more fixed price or unit price contracts in order for us to compete against competitors that have the ability to accept awards at lower prices or have a pre-existing relationship with the customer. If we are unable to compete successfully in such markets, our relative market share and profits could be reduced. The construction services industry is highly schedule driven, and our failure to meet schedule requirements of our contracts could adversely affect our reputation and/or expose us to financial liability. Many of our contracts are subject to specific completion schedule requirements and subject us to liquidated damages in the event the construction schedules are not achieved. Our failure to meet schedule requirements could subject us not only to liquidated damages, but could further subject us to liability for our customer’s actual cost arising out of our delay and cause us to suffer damage to our reputation within our industry and customer base. 18 Table of Contents We will require substantial personnel, including construction and project managers and specialty subcontractor resources to execute and perform on our contracts in backlog. The successful execution of our business strategies is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain key officers. Our ability to execute and perform on our contracts in backlog depends in large part upon our ability to hire and retain highly skilled personnel, including project and construction management. In addition, our construction projects require a significant amount of trade labor resources, such as carpenters, masons and other skilled workers, as well as certain specialty subcontractor skills. In the event we are unable to attract, hire and retain the requisite personnel and subcontractors necessary to execute and perform on our contract backlog, we may experience delays in completing projects in accordance with project schedules, which may have a material effect on our financial results and harm our reputation. Further, the increased demand for personnel and specialty subcontractors may result in higher costs which could cause us to exceed the budget on a project, which in turn may have a material effect on our results of operations and harm our relationships with our customers. In addition, if we lack the personnel and specialty subcontractors necessary to perform on our current contract backlog, we may find it necessary to curtail our pursuit of new projects. Although the risk has been mitigated with the specialty contracting capabilities that we acquired during 2011, we will still rely on significant external specialty subcontractors to perform our projects. The execution of our business strategies also substantially depends on our ability to retain the continued service of several key members of our management. Losing the services of these key officers could adversely affect our business until a suitable replacement can be found. The majority of these key officers are not bound by employment agreements with us nor do we maintain key person life insurance policies for them. An inability to obtain bonding could limit the number of projects we are able to pursue. As is customary in the construction business, we often are required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance under construction contracts. Our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise and certain external factors, including the overall capacity of the surety market. Surety companies consider such factors in relation to the amount of our backlog and their underwriting standards, which may change from time to time. The surety industry has undergone significant changes with several companies withdrawing completely from the industry or significantly reducing their bonding commitment. In addition, certain reinsurers of surety risk have limited their participation in this market. Therefore, we could be unable to obtain surety bonds, when required, which could adversely affect our future results of operations and revenues. Failure to maintain safe work sites could result in significant losses. Construction and maintenance sites are potentially dangerous workplaces and often put our employees and others in close proximity with mechanized equipment, moving vehicles, chemical and manufacturing processes, and highly regulated materials. On many sites, we are responsible for safety and, accordingly, must implement safety procedures. If we fail to implement these procedures or if the procedures we implement are ineffective, we may suffer the loss of, or injury to our employees, as well as expose ourselves to possible litigation. Despite having invested significant resources in safety programs, a serious accident may nonetheless occur on one of our worksites. As a result, our failure to maintain adequate safety standards could result in reduced profitability or the loss of projects or customers, and could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Our participation in construction joint ventures exposes us to liability and/or harm to our reputation for failures by our partners. As part of our business, we enter into joint venture arrangements typically to jointly bid on and execute particular projects, thereby reducing our financial or operational risk with respect to such projects. Success on these joint projects depends in large part on whether our joint venture partners satisfy their contractual obligations. We and our joint venture partners are generally jointly and severally liable for all liabilities and obligations of our joint ventures. If a joint venture partner fails to perform or is financially unable to bear its portion of required capital contributions or other obligations, including liabilities stemming from lawsuits, we could be required to make additional investments, provide additional services or pay more than our proportionate share of a liability to make up for our partner’s shortfall. Further, if we are unable to adequately address our partner’s performance issues, the customer may terminate the project, which could result in legal liability to us, harm our reputation, and reduce our profit on a projector, in some cases, result in a loss. 19 Table of Contents We are subject to significant legal proceedings which, if determined adversely to us, could harm our reputation, preclude us from bidding on future projects and/or have a material effect on us. We also may invest significant working capital on projects while legal proceedings are being settled. We are involved in various lawsuits, including the legal proceedings described under Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Litigation is inherently uncertain and it is not possible to accurately predict what the final outcome will be of any legal proceeding. We must make certain assumptions and rely on estimates regarding potential outcomes of legal proceedings in order to determine an appropriate charge to income and contingent liabilities. Estimating and recording future outcomes of litigation proceedings requires us to make significant judgments and assumptions about the future, which are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. If the final recovery turns out to be materially less favorable than our estimates, we would have to record the related liability, which may include losses from money owed pursuant to a disfavorable judgment as well as losses based on the failure to receive an anticipated judgment for sums in our favor, and fund the payment of the judgment and, if such adverse judgment is significant, it could have a material adverse effect on us. Legal proceedings resulting in judgments or findings against us may harm our reputation and prospects for future contract awards. We occasionally bring claims against project owners for additional cost exceeding the contract price or for amounts not included in the original contract price. When these types of events occur and unresolved claims are pending, we may invest significant working capital in projects to cover cost overruns pending the resolution of the relevant claims. A failure to promptly recover on these types of claims could have a material effect on our liquidity and financial results. Our contracts require us to perform extra or change order work, which can result in disputes and adversely affect our working capital, profits and cash flows. Our contracts generally require us to perform extra, or change order, work as directed by the customer even if the customer has not agreed in advance on the scope or price of the work to be performed. This process can result in disputes over whether the work performed is beyond the scope of the work included in the original project plans and specifications or, if the customer agrees that the work performed qualifies as extra work, over the price the customer is willing to pay for the extra work. Even when the customer agrees to pay for the extra work, we may be required to fund the cost of such work for a lengthy period of time until the change order is approved and funded by the customer. Also, unapproved change orders, contract disputes or claims cause us to incur costs that cannot be billed currently and therefore may be reflected as "costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings" in our balance sheet. See Note 1 – Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, under the section entitled Method of Accounting for Contracts of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. To the extent our actual recoveries with respect to unapproved change orders, contract disputes or claims are lower than our estimates, the amount of any shortfall will reduce our revenues and the amount of costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings recorded on our balance sheet, and could have a material effect on our working capital, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, as we include unapproved change orders in our estimates of revenues and costs to complete a project, our profitability may be diluted via the percentage-of-completion method of accounting for contract revenues. Any delay caused by the extra work may also adversely impact the timely scheduling of other project work and our ability to meet specified contract milestone dates. Increased regulation of the hospitality and gaming industry could reduce the number of future hospitality and gaming projects available, which, in turn, could adversely affect our future earnings. The hospitality and gaming industry is regulated extensively by federal and state regulatory bodies, including state gaming commissions, the National Indian Gaming Commission and federal and state taxing and law enforcement agencies. From time to time, legislation is proposed in the legislatures of some of these jurisdictions that, if enacted, could adversely affect the tax, regulatory, operational or other aspects of the hospitality and gaming industry. Legislation of this type may be enacted in the future. New legislation or hospitality and gaming regulations could deter future hospitality and gaming construction projects in jurisdictions in which we derive significant revenues. As a result, the enactment of any such new legislation or regulations could adversely affect our future earnings. 20 Table of Contents Completing the integration of recent acquisitions into our Company may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial, operational and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the operation, development and expansion of our existing business. During 2011 we completed an acquisition strategy, in which we acquired Superior Gunite, Fisk, Anderson, Frontier-Kemper, Lunda, WDF, FSE, Nagelbush and Becho over a period of 10 months. To the extent that we experience unforeseen difficulties in completing the integration of these acquisitions, we may also have difficulty achieving our operating, strategic and financial objectives. The percentage-of-completion method of accounting for contract revenues involved significant estimates which may result in material adjustments, which could result in a charge against our earnings. We recognize contract revenues using the percentage-of-completion method. Under this method, estimated contract revenues are recognized by applying the percentage of completion of the project for the period to the total estimated revenues for the contract. Estimated contract losses are recognized in full when determined. Total contract revenues and cost estimates are reviewed and revised at a minimum on a quarterly basis as the work progresses and as change orders are approved. Adjustments based upon the percentage of completion are reflected in contract revenues in the period when these estimates are revised. To the extent that these adjustments result in an increase or a reduction in or an elimination of previously reported contract profit, we recognize a credit or a charge against current earnings, as applicable. Such credits or charges could be material and could cause our results to fluctuate materially from period to period. Accounting for our contract related revenues and costs, as well as other expenses, require management to make a variety of significant estimates and assumptions. Although we believe we have the experience and processes to enable us to formulate appropriate assumptions and produce reasonably dependable estimates, these assumptions and estimates may change significantly in the future and could result in the reversal of previously recognized revenue and profit. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. If we are unable to accurately estimate the overall risks, revenues or costs on a contract, we may achieve a lower than anticipated profit or incur a loss on that contract. We generally enter into four principal types of contracts with our customers: fixed price contracts, cost plus fee contracts, guaranteed maximum price contracts, and construction management contracts. We derive a significant portion of our Civil, Specialty Contractors and Management Services segment revenues and backlog from fixed price contracts. · Fixed price and certain design-build contracts require us to perform the contract for a fixed price irrespective of our actual costs. As a result, we realize a profit on these contracts only if we successfully control our costs to avoid cost overruns and successfully negotiate change orders for out of scope work. · Cost plus fee contracts provide for reimbursement of the costs required to complete a project, but generally have a lower base fee and an incentive fee based on cost and/or schedule performance. If our costs exceed the revenues available under such a contract or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract, we may not receive reimbursement for these costs. · Guaranteed maximum price contracts provide for a cost plus fee arrangement up to a maximum agreed-upon price. These contracts also place the risk on us for cost overruns that exceed the guaranteed maximum price. · Construction management contracts are those under which we agree to manage a project for a customer for an agreed upon fee, which may be fixed or may vary based upon negotiated factors. Profitability on these types of contracts is impacted by changes in the scope of work or design issues, which could cause cost overruns beyond our control and limit profits on these contracts. Cost overruns, whether due to inefficiency, faulty estimates or other factors, result in lower profit or even a loss on a project. If our estimates of the overall risks, revenues or costs prove inaccurate or circumstances change, we may incur a lower profit or a loss on that contract. 21 Table of Contents We are subject to a number of risks as a U.S. government contractor, which could harm our reputation, result in fines or penalties against us and/or adversely impact our financial condition. We are a provider of services to U.S. government agencies and therefore are exposed to risks associated with government contracting. We must observe laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts which affect how we do business with our U.S. government customers and may impose added costs on our business. For example, the Federal Acquisition Regulations allow our U.S. government customers to terminate our contracts for the failure to comply with regulatory requirements not directly related to performance and in certain cases, require us to disclose and certify cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations. Our failure to comply with these or other laws and regulations could result in contract terminations, suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. government, civil fines and damages and criminal prosecution and penalties, any of which could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. U.S. government agencies generally can terminate or modify their contracts with us at their convenience and some government contracts must be renewed annually at the U.S. government’s sole discretion. If a government agency terminates or fails to renew a contract, our backlog may be reduced. If a government agency terminates a contract due to our unsatisfactory performance, it could result in liability to us and harm our ability to compete for future contracts. U.S. government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency, or DCAA, routinely audit our U.S. government contracts and contractors’ administration processes and systems. These agencies review our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. They also review the adequacy of our internal control systems and policies, including our purchasing, property, estimating, and information systems. Only costs allowable under federal regulations may be properly charged to our government contracts and any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and any such costs already reimbursed must be refunded or otherwise properly credited to the U.S. government in subsequent invoices. Moreover, if any of the administrative processes or systems is found not to comply with requirements, we may be subjected to increased government oversight and approval that could delay or otherwise adversely affect our ability to compete for or perform contracts. Therefore, an unfavorable outcome to an audit by the DCAA or another agency could cause our results to differ materially from those anticipated. If an investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeitures of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, we would suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Each of these results could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Our pension plan is underfunded and we may be required to make significant future contributions to the plan. Our defined benefit pension plan and our supplemental retirement plan are non-contributory pension plans covering many of our employees. Benefits under these plans were frozen as of June 1, 2004. As of December 31, 2012, these plans were underfunded by approximately $39.2 million. We are required to make cash contributions to our pension and supplemental retirement plans to the extent necessary to comply with minimum funding requirements imposed by employee benefit and tax laws. The amount of any such required contributions is determined based on an annual actuarial valuation of the plan as performed by the plans’ actuaries. During 2012, we contributed $5.8 million in cash to our defined benefit pension plan and supplemental retirement plan. The amount of our future contributions will depend upon asset returns, then-current discount rates and a number of other factors, and, as a result, the amount we may elect or be required to contribute to these plans in the future may vary significantly. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the section entitled Critical Accounting Policies. 22 Table of Contents In connection with mergers and acquisitions, we have recorded goodwill and other intangible assets that could become impaired and adversely affect our operating results. Assessing whether an impairment has occurred requires us to make significant judgments and assumptions about the future, which are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, and if actual events turn out to be materially less favorable than the judgments we make and the assumptions we use, we may be required to record additional impairments in the future. We had approximately $621.1 million of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2012. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations reduced by any impairments recorded subsequent to the date of acquisition. We test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment by applying a fair value test in the fourth quarter of each year and between annual tests if events or circumstances change which suggest that the goodwill or intangible assets should be evaluated. For example, if our market capitalization drops significantly below the amount of net equity recorded on our balance sheet, it might indicate a decline in the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets and would require us to further evaluate whether an impairment has occurred. If we determine that there has been an impairment (meaning that carrying value exceeds fair value), we would be required to write down the carrying value by the amount of the excess (which would represent the impaired portion of these assets). Impairment assessment inherently involves management judgments as to the assumptions used to project amounts included in the valuation process and as to anticipated future market conditions and their potential effect on future performance. Changes in assumptions or estimates can materially affect the determination of far value. If we determine, based on our assumptions, judgments, estimates and projections, that no impairment exists as of a specific date, and if future events turn out to be materially less favorable than what we assumed or estimated in assessing fair value when we tested for impairment, we may be required at a future date (either as part of a subsequent annual evaluation or on an interim basis) to re-evaluate fair value and to recognize an impairment at that time and write down the carrying value of our goodwill and/or indefinite-lived intangible assets. If we were required to write down all or a significant part of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets in future periods, our net earnings and equity could be materially and adversely affected. The forecasts utilized in the discounted cash flow analysis as part of our impairment test assume future revenue and profitability growth in each of our segments. If our operating segments cannot obtain, or we determine at a later date that we no longer expect them to obtain, the projected levels of profitability, future goodwill impairment tests may also result in an impairment charge. There can be no assurances that our operating segments will be able to achieve our estimated levels of profitability. A number of factors, many of which we have no ability to control, could affect our financial condition, operating results and business prospects and could cause our actual results to differ from the estimates and assumptions we employed in our goodwill impairment testing. These factors include, but are not limited to, (i) further weakening in the overall economy; (ii) a significant decline in our stock price and resulting market capitalization; (iii) changes in the discount rate; (iv) successful efforts by our competitors to gain market share in our markets; (v) adverse changes as a result of regulatory actions; (vi) a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the overall business climate; (vii) recognition of a goodwill impairment loss in the financial statements of a subsidiary that is a component of our reporting units; and (viii) the resolution of legal proceedings resulting in judgments less favorable than our estimates. Given these and other factors, we cannot be certain that goodwill impairment will not be required during future periods. In 2012, our interim review indicated that goodwill and other intangible assets were impaired, and we recorded a charge of $376.6 million in the second quarter of 2012 as discussed in Critical Accounting Policies in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below. As a result, we incurred a significant loss in 2012 and stockholders’ equity declined by $256.0 million to $1.1 billion at December 31, 2012. Based on our annual review of our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives, which we performed in the fourth quarter of 2012, we concluded that no additional impairment had occurred. The fair value of the Management Services segment exceeded its carrying value by 4.5% while the fair values of all other segments exceeded their carrying values by more than 10%. The carrying value of the goodwill of the Management Services segment was $44.2 million at December 31, 2012. Conflicts of interest may arise involving certain of our directors. We have engaged in joint ventures, primarily in civil construction, with O&G Industries, Inc., a Connecticut corporation, whose Vice Chairman is Raymond R. Oneglia, one of our directors. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had a 30% interest in a joint venture with O&G as the sponsor for a highway reconstruction project with an estimated total contract value of approximately $361 million and an estimated completion in 2017. In accordance with the Company’s policy, the terms of this joint venture and any of our joint ventures with any affiliate have been and will be subject to review and approval by our Audit Committee. As in any joint venture, we could have disagreements with our joint venture partner over the operation of a joint venture or a joint venture could be involved in disputes with third parties, where we may or may not have a conflict of interest with our joint venture partner. These relationships also may create conflicts of interest with respect to new business and other corporate opportunities. Ronald N. Tutor’s ownership interest in the Company, along with his management position and his right to designate nominees to serve as members of our Board of Directors, provides him with significant influence over corporate matters and may make a third party’s acquisition of the Company (or its stock or assets) more difficult. As of December 31, 2012, Mr. Tutor and two trusts controlled by Mr. Tutor (the “Tutor Group”) owned approximately 19.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. In addition, Mr. Tutor is the chairman and chief executive officer of the Company and has the right to designate one nominee for election as members of the Company’s Board of Directors so long as the Tutor Group owns at least 11.25% of the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock. As of the date of this Form 10-K, none of the current directors have been appointed by Mr. Tutor. Mr. Tutor has advised the Board that should he choose to designate a person for appointment to the Board at a time when the Board already includes eleven members, he would support a temporary expansion of the Board to twelve members to accommodate such additional member. Pursuant to the Shareholders Agreement dated April 2, 2008 and amended by Amendments No. 1, 2, and 3 dated September 17, 2010, June 2, 2011 and September 13, 2011, respectively, by and among Tutor Perini Corporation, Mr. Tutor and certain shareholders of Tutor-Saliba Corporation signatory thereto (the “Amended Shareholders Agreement”) such expansion would continue until the next meeting of shareholders at which directors are elected, at which time the size of the Board would be reduced back to eleven members and the slate of nominees for election adjusted accordingly. The Amended Shareholders Agreement also imposes significant limits on Mr. Tutor’s right to vote the shares of our common stock held by the Tutor Group or to take specified actions that may facilitate an unsolicited acquisition of control of the Company by Mr. Tutor or his affiliates. Mr. Tutor will nonetheless still be able to exert significant influence over the outcome of a range of corporate matters, including significant corporate transactions requiring a shareholder vote, such as a merger or a sale of the Company or its assets. This concentration of ownership and influence in management and Board decision-making also could harm the price of our common stock by, among other things, discouraging a potential acquirer from seeking to acquire shares of our common stock (whether by making a tender offer or otherwise) or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company. 23 Table of Contents Our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by work stoppages and other labor problems. We are a signatory to numerous local and regional collective bargaining agreements, both directly and through trade associations. If we or our trade associations are unable to negotiate with any of our unions, we might experience strikes, work stoppages or increased operating costs as a result of higher than anticipated wages or benefits. If our unionized workers engage in a strike or other work stoppage, or our non-unionized employees become unionized, we could experience a disruption of our operations and higher ongoing labor costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our debt agreements, in particular under our $300 million senior unsecured notes and our $200 million term loan under our revolving credit facility. We currently have and expect to continue to have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2012, we had a total debt of $737.1 million, consisting of $298.3 million of senior unsecured notes (net of unamortized debt discount of $1.7 million) (the “Senior Notes”), $120.0 million of outstanding borrowings on a revolving credit basis (the “Revolving Facility”), a $200 million term loan (the “Term Loan”) which has been paid down to $152.5 million at December 31, 2012, and $166.3 million of other debt. We may also incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness may: · make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on the Senior Notes, Term Loan and our other indebtedness; · limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; · limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; · require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; · limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and · increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. We are subject to restrictive covenants under our revolving credit facility and the indenture for our $300 million senior unsecured notes that could limit our flexibility in managing the business. Our revolving credit facility imposes operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions include, among other things, limitations on our ability to: · create liens or other encumbrances; · enter into certain types of transactions with our affiliates; · make certain capital expenditures; · make investments, loans or other guarantees; · sell or otherwise dispose of a portion of our assets; or · merge or consolidate with another entity. In addition, our revolving credit facility limits our ability to incur indebtedness from other sources without the consent of our lenders. Our revolving credit facility contains financial covenants that require us to maintain minimum net worth, minimum fixed charge coverage and maximum leverage ratios. Our ability to borrow funds for any purpose is dependent upon satisfying these tests. 24 Table of Contents Our Senior Notes also impose operating and financial restrictions on us including, among other things, the following limitations on our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred stock; · pay dividends on, or make distributions in respect of, our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock; · make certain investments or other restricted payments; · sell certain assets; · create liens or use assets as security in other transactions; · merge, consolidate or transfer or dispose of substantially all of their assets; or · engage in certain transactions with affiliates If we are unable to meet the terms of the financial covenants or fail to comply with any of the other restrictions contained in these agreements, an event of default could occur. An event of default, if not waived by our lenders, could result in an acceleration of any outstanding indebtedness, causing such debt to become immediately due and payable. If such an acceleration occurs, we may not be able to repay such indebtedness on a timely basis. Since indebtedness under our revolving credit facility and Senior Notes is secured by substantially all of our assets, acceleration of this debt could result in foreclosure of those assets. In the event of a foreclosure, we would be unable to conduct our business and may be forced to discontinue ongoing operations. Funds associated with auction rate securities may not be liquid or readily available. As discussed in Note 3 – Fair Value Measurements of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules, our investment securities primarily consist of auction rate securities which are not currently liquid or readily available to convert to cash. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, we held $46.3 million and $62.3 million in auction rate securities. In conjunction with our estimates of fair value at December 31, 2011 and 2010, we deemed our investment in auction rate securities to be impaired by $4.8 million and $5.7 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. These impairment charges were deemed to be other-than-temporary, thereby resulting in charges to income. In 2012, we did not deem any of our auction rate securities to be impaired, however, the settlement of three securities in 2012 resulted in a realized loss of $2.7 million. If the auction rate securities market continues to remain relatively illiquid, it is possible that we will be required to further adjust the fair value of our auction rate securities. If we determine that the decline in the fair value of our auction rate securities is other-than-temporary, it would result in additional impairment charges being recognized in our Consolidated Statements of Operations, which could be material and which could adversely affect our financial results. In addition, the lack of liquidity associated with these investments may require us to access our revolving credit facility until some or all of our auction rate securities are liquidated. We retain a certain level of self-insured risk for workers’ compensation, general liability, automobile liability and subcontractor default insurance. Therefore, large self-insured losses, associated with several insurable events, could adversely affect our operating results. We self-insure for a portion of our claims exposure resulting from workers' compensation, general liability, automobile liability and certain events of subcontractor default. We maintain insurance coverage with licensed insurance carriers which limits our aggregate exposure to excessive loss experience in a given policy year. In addition, we maintain insurance coverage above the amounts for which we self-insure. We accrue currently for estimated incurred losses and expenses, and periodically evaluate and adjust our claims accrued liability to reflect our experience. However, if excessive loss experience should occur in a policy year or years, ultimate results may differ materially from our estimates, which could adversely affect our operating results and cash flow. Although we believe the level of our insurance coverage should be sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed our aggregate coverage limits. Also, there are some types of losses such as from hurricanes, terrorism, wars, or earthquakes where insurance is limited and/or not economically justifiable. If an uninsured loss occurs, it could adversely affect our operating results and cash flow. Changes to our information systems as well as any loss, breach of security, disruption, unexpected data or our inability to implement new systems, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on third-party software to run critical accounting, project management and financial information systems. If software vendors decide to discontinue further development, integration or long-term software maintenance support for our information systems, or there is any system interruption, delay, breach of security, loss of data or loss of a vendor, we may need to migrate some or all of our accounting, project management and financial information to other systems. These disruptions could increase our operational expense as well as impact the management of our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. 25 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 