ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to a number of risks, including those summarized below. Such risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See our disclosure under “Forward-looking Statements” on page 2. We may not fully realize the revenue value reported in our backlog. As of December 31, 2008, our backlog of uncompleted construction work was approximately $6.7 billion. We include a construction project in our backlog at such time as a contract is awarded or a letter of commitment is obtained and adequate construction funding is in place. The revenue projected in our backlog may not be realized or, if realized, may not result in profits. For example, if a project reflected in our backlog is terminated, suspended or reduced in scope, it would result in a reduction to our backlog which would reduce, potentially to a material extent, the revenues and profits we actually received from contracts in backlog. If a customer cancels a project, we may be reimbursed for certain costs and profit thereon but typically have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. Significant cancellations or delays of projects in our backlog could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profits, and cash flows. Current economic conditions could adversely affect our operations. Current economic and financial market conditions in the United States and overseas, including severe disruptions in the credit markets, could adversely affect our results of operations in future periods, particularly if there is a prolonged economic recession or depression or if government efforts to stabilize and revitalize credit markets and financial institutions are not effective. The current instability in the financial markets has made it difficult for certain of our customers, including private owners and state and local governments, to access the credit markets to obtain financing or refinancing, as the case may be, to fund new construction projects on satisfactory terms or at all. State and local governments also are facing potentially significant budget shortfalls as a result of declining tax and other revenues, which may cause them to defer or cancel planned infrastructure projects. Our backlog has decreased in 2008 as we have encountered increased levels of deferrals and delays related to new construction projects. Difficulty in obtaining adequate financing due to the unprecedented disruption in the credit markets may significantly increase the rate at which our customers defer, delay or cancel proposed new construction projects. Such deferrals, delays or cancellations could have an adverse impact on our future operating results. Current instability in the financial markets may also impact a customers’ ability to pay us on a timely basis, or at all, for work on projects already under construction in accordance with the contract terms. Customer financing may be subject to periodic renewals and extensions of credit by the lender. As credit markets tighten and difficult economic conditions remain, lenders may be unwilling to continue renewing or extending credit to a customer. Such deferral, delay or cancellation of credit by the lender could impact the customer’s ability to pay us, which could have an adverse impact on our future operating results. 13 A significant portion of our operations are concentrated in California and Nevada. As a result, we are more susceptible to fluctuations caused by adverse economic or other conditions in this region than other regions. Economic downturns could reduce the level of consumer spending within the hospitality and gaming industry, which could adversely affect demand for our services. Consumer spending in the hospitality and gaming industry is discretionary and may decline during economic downturns when consumers have less disposable income. Even an uncertain economic outlook may adversely affect consumer spending in hospitality and gaming operations, as consumers may spend less in anticipation of a potential economic downturn. Decreased spending in the hospitality and gaming market could deter new projects within the industry and the expansion or renovation of existing hospitality and gaming facilities, which could negatively impact our revenues and earnings. A decrease in government funding of infrastructure and other public projects could reduce the revenues of the company. Approximately 8% (or $528.0 million) of our backlog as of December 31, 2008, is derived from construction projects involving civil construction contracts. Civil construction markets are dependent on the amount of infrastructure work funded by various governmental agencies which, in turn, depends on the condition of the existing infrastructure, the need for new or expanded infrastructure and federal, state or local government spending levels. A slowdown in economic activity in any of the markets that we will serve may result in less spending on public works projects. In addition, a decrease or delay in government funding of infrastructure projects or delays in the implementation of voter-approved bond measures could decrease the number of civil construction projects available and limit our ability to obtain new contracts, which could reduce revenues within our civil construction segment. In addition, budget shortfalls and credit rating downgrades in California and other states in which the Company is involved in significant infrastructure projects and any long-term impairment in the ability of state and local governments to finance construction projects by raising capital in the municipal bond market could curtail or delay the funding of future projects. Our building construction segment also is involved in significant construction projects for public works projects such as Terminal 3 at McCarran International Airport in Las Vegas, public healthcare facilities, primarily in California, and public education facilities, primarily in Florida and California. These projects also are dependent upon funding by various federal, state and local governmental agencies. A decrease in government funding of public healthcare and education facilities, particularly in California and Florida, could decrease the number and/or size of construction projects available and limit our ability to obtain new contracts in these markets, which could further reduce our revenues and earnings. A decrease in U.S. government funding or change in government plans, particularly with respect to construction projects in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as the risks associated with undertaking projects in these countries, could adversely affect the continuation of existing projects or the number of projects available to us in the future. We have performed design-build security upgrades at United States embassies and consulates throughout the world, and we are currently engaged in building activities in Iraq. The United States federal government has approved various spending bills for the reconstruction and defense of Iraq and Afghanistan and has allocated significant funds to the defense of United States interests around the world from the threat of terrorism. A decrease in government funding of these projects or a decision by the United States federal government to reduce or eliminate the use of outside contractors to perform this work would decrease the number of projects available to us and limit our ability to obtain new contracts in this area. Our projects in Iraq and Afghanistan and other areas of political and economic instability carry with them specific security and operational risks. Intentional or unintentional acts in those countries could result in damage to our construction sites or harm to our employees and could result in our decision to withdraw our operations from the area. Also, as a result of these acts, the United States federal government could decide to cancel or suspend our operations in these areas. 14 Economic, political and other risks associated with our international operations involve risks not faced by our domestic competitors, which could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. We derived approximately 4% (or $195.3 million) of our revenues and approximately $39.6 million of income from construction operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 from our work on projects located outside of the United States, including projects in Iraq and Afghanistan. We expect non-U.S. projects to continue to contribute to our revenues and earnings for the foreseeable future. Our international operations expose us to risks inherent in doing business in hostile regions outside the United States, including: § political risks, including risks of loss due to civil disturbances, guerilla activities and insurrection; § acts of terrorism and acts of war; § unstable economic, financial and market conditions; § potential incompatibility with foreign subcontractors and vendors; § foreign currency controls and fluctuations; § trade restrictions; § variations in taxes; and § changes in labor conditions, labor strikes and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. Any of these factors could harm our international operations and, consequently, our business and consolidated operating results. Specifically, failure to successfully manage risks associated with our international operations could result in higher operating costs than anticipated or could delay or limit our ability to generate revenues and income from construction operations in key international markets. We are subject to significant legal proceedings, which, if determined adversely to us, could harm our reputation, preclude us from bidding on future projects and/or have a material adverse effect on us. We are involved in various lawsuits, including the legal proceedings described under Item 3 -- “Legal Proceedings.” Litigation is inherently uncertain and it is not possible to predict what the final outcome will be of any legal proceeding. A final judgment against us would require us to record the related liability and fund the payment of the judgment and, if such adverse judgment is significant, it could have a material adverse effect on us. Legal proceedings resulting in judgments or findings against us may harm our reputation and prospects for future contract awards. Our contracts require us to perform extra or change order work, which can result in disputes and adversely affect our working capital, profits and cash flows. Our contracts generally require us to perform extra or change order work as directed by the customer even if the customer has not agreed in advance on the scope or price of the work to be performed. This process can result in disputes over whether the work performed is beyond the scope of the work included in the original project plans and specifications or, if the customer agrees that the work performed qualifies as extra work, the price the customer is willing to pay for the extra work. Even when the customer agrees to pay for the extra work, we may be required to fund the cost of such work for a lengthy period of time until the change order is approved and funded by the customer. Also, unapproved change orders, contract disputes or claims cause us to incur costs that cannot be billed currently and therefore may be reflected as "costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings" in our balance sheet. See Note 1(d) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. To the extent our actual recoveries with respect to unapproved change orders, contract disputes or claims are lower than our estimates, the amount of any shortfall will reduce our revenues and the amount of costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings recorded on our balance sheet, and could 15 have a material adverse effect on our working capital, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, any delay caused by the extra work may adversely impact the timely scheduling of other project work and our ability to meet specified contract milestone dates. Increased regulation of the hospitality and gaming industry could reduce the number of future hospitality and gaming projects available, which, in turn, could adversely affect our future earnings. The hospitality and gaming industry is regulated extensively by federal and state regulatory bodies, including state gaming commissions, the National Indian Gaming Commission and federal and state taxing and law enforcement agencies. From time to time, legislation is proposed in the legislatures of some of these jurisdictions that, if enacted, could adversely affect the tax, regulatory, operational or other aspects of the hospitality and gaming industry. Legislation of this type may be enacted in the future. The United States federal government has also previously considered a federal tax on casino revenues and may consider such a tax in the future. In addition, companies that operate in the hospitality and gaming industry are currently subject to significant state and local taxes and fees in addition to normal federal and state corporate income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. New legislation or hospitality and gaming regulations could deter future hospitality and gaming construction projects in jurisdictions in which we derive significant revenues. As a result, the enactment of any such new legislation or regulations could adversely affect our future earnings. If we are unable to accurately estimate the overall risks, revenues or costs on a contract, we may achieve a lower than anticipated profit or incur a loss on that contract. We generally enter into four principal types of contracts with our clients: fixed price contracts, cost plus fee contracts, guaranteed maximum price contracts, and, to a lesser extent, construction management or design-build contracts. We derive a significant portion of our civil construction segment and management services segment revenues and backlog from fixed price contracts. • Fixed price contracts require us to perform the contract for a fixed price irrespective of our actual costs. As a result, we realize a profit on these contracts only if we successfully control our costs and avoid cost overruns. • Cost plus fee contracts provide for reimbursement of the costs required to complete a project, but generally have a lower base fee and an incentive fee based on cost and/or schedule performance. If our costs exceed the revenues available under such a contract or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract, we may not receive reimbursement for these costs. • Guaranteed maximum price contracts provide for a cost plus fee arrangement up to a maximum agreed-upon price. These contracts also place the risk on us for cost overruns that exceed the guaranteed maximum price. • Construction management contracts are those under which we agree to manage a project for a customer for an agreed upon fee, which may be fixed or may vary based upon negotiated factors. Profitability on these types of contracts is impacted by changes in the scope of work or design issues, which could cause cost overruns beyond our control and limit profits on these contracts. Cost overruns, whether due to inefficiency, faulty estimates or other factors, result in lower profit or a loss on a project. A significant number of our contracts are based in part on cost estimates that are subject to a number of assumptions. If our estimates of the overall risks, revenues or costs prove inaccurate or circumstances change, we may incur a lower profit or a loss on that contract. 16 The percentage-of-completion method of accounting for contract revenues may result in material adjustments, which could result in a charge against our earnings. We recognize contract revenues using the percentage-of-completion method. Under this method, estimated contract revenues are recognized by applying the percentage of completion of the project for the period to the total estimated revenues for the contract. Estimated contract losses are recognized in full when determined. Total contract revenues and cost estimates are reviewed and revised at a minimum on a quarterly basis as the work progresses and as change orders are approved. Adjustments based upon the percentage of completion are reflected in contract revenues in the period when these estimates are revised. To the extent that these adjustments result in an increase, a reduction or an elimination of previously reported contract profit, we recognize a credit or a charge against current earnings, which could be material. We are subject to a number of risks as a U.S. government contractor, which could either harm our reputation, result in fines or penalties against us and/or adversely impact our financial condition. We are a provider of services to U.S. government agencies and therefore are exposed to risks associated with government contracting. We must observe laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts which affect how we do business with our U.S. government customers and may impose added costs on our business. For example, the Federal Acquisition Regulations and the industrial security regulations of the U.S. Department of Defense and related laws include provisions that allow our U.S. government customers to terminate or not renew our contracts if we come under foreign ownership, control or influence and require us to disclose and certify cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations. Our failure to comply with these or other laws and regulations could result in contract terminations, suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. government, civil fines and damages and criminal prosecution and penalties, any of which could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. U.S. government agencies generally can terminate or modify their contract with us at their convenience and some government contracts must be renewed annually. If a government agency terminates or fails to renew a contract, our backlog may be reduced. If a government agency terminates a contract due to our unsatisfactory performance, it could result in liability to us and harm our ability to compete for future contracts. U.S. government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency, or DCAA, routinely audit and investigate U.S. government contracts and U.S. government contractors’ administrative processes and systems. These agencies review our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. They also review our compliance with regulations and policies and the adequacy of our internal control systems and policies, including our purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and any such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. Moreover, if any of the administrative processes or systems is found not to comply with requirements, we may be subjected to increased government oversight and approval that could delay or otherwise adversely affect our ability to compete for or perform contracts. Therefore, an unfavorable outcome to an audit by the DCAA or another agency could cause our results to differ materially from those anticipated. If an investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeitures of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, we would suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Each of these results could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Our participation in construction joint ventures exposes us to liability and/or harm to our reputation for failures of our partners. As part of our business, we enter into joint venture arrangements typically to jointly bid on and execute particular projects, thereby reducing our financial or operational risk with respect to such projects. Success on these joint projects depends in large part on whether our joint venture partners satisfy their contractual obligations. We and our joint venture partners are generally jointly and severally liable for all liabilities and obligations of our joint ventures. 17 If a joint venture partner fails to perform or is financially unable to bear its portion of required capital contributions or other obligations, including liabilities stemming from lawsuits, we could be required to make additional investments, provide additional services or pay more than our proportionate share of a liability to make up for our partner’s shortfall. Further, if we are unable to adequately address our partner’s performance issues, the customer may terminate the project, which could result in legal liability to us, harm our reputation, and reduce our profit on a project. Our pension plan is underfunded and we may be required to make significant future contributions to the plan. Our defined benefit pension plan is a non-contributory pension plan covering many of our employees. Benefits under our pension plan were frozen as of June 1, 2004. As of December 31, 2008, our pension plan was underfunded by approximately $27.2 million. We are required to make cash contributions to our pension plan to the extent necessary to comply with minimum funding requirements imposed by employee benefit and tax laws. The amount of any such required contributions is determined based on an annual actuarial valuation of the plan as performed by the plan's actuaries. During 2008, we voluntarily contributed $3.1 million in cash to our defined benefit pension plan. The amount of our future contributions will depend upon asset returns, then-current discount rates and a number of other factors, and, as a result, the amount we may elect or be required to contribute to our pension plan in the future may vary significantly. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Critical Accounting Policies--Defined Benefit Retirement Plan." The construction services industry is highly schedule driven, and our failure to meet schedule requirements of our contracts could adversely affect our reputation and/or expose us to financial liability. Many of our contracts are subject to specific completion schedule requirements and subject us to liquidated damages in the event the construction schedules are not achieved. Our failure to meet schedule requirements could subject us not only to liquidated damages, but could further subject us to liability for our customer’s actual cost arising out of our delay and cause us to suffer damage to our reputation within our industry and customer base. Competition for new project awards is intense and our failure to compete effectively could reduce our market share and profits. New project awards are often determined through either a competitive bid basis or on a negotiated basis. Bid or negotiated contracts with public or private owners are generally awarded based upon price, but many times other factors, such as shorter project schedules or prior experience with the customer, influence the award of the contract. Within our industry, we compete with many national, regional and local construction firms. Some of these competitors have achieved greater market penetration than we have in the markets in which we compete, and some have greater financial and other resources than we do. As a result, we may need to accept lower contract margins or more fixed price or unit price contracts in order for us to compete against competitors that have the ability to accept awards at lower prices or have a pre-existing relationship with the customer. If we are unable to compete successfully in such markets, our relative market share and profits could be reduced. We will require substantial personnel and specialty subcontractor resources to execute and perform on our contracts in backlog. Our ability to execute and perform on our contracts in backlog depends in large part upon our ability to hire and retain highly skilled personnel, including engineering, project management and senior management professionals. In addition, our construction projects require a significant amount of trade labor resources, such as carpenters, masons and other skilled workers, as well as certain specialty subcontractor skills. The growth in the construction industry over the past few years, particularly in areas with significant building activity such as Las Vegas, Nevada, has led to a corresponding increase in the demand for personnel and specialty subcontractor resources and, in some cases, could result in shortages for certain types of personnel and subcontractors. Competition for these resources is intense. In the event we are unable to attract, hire and retain the requisite personnel and subcontractors necessary to execute and perform on our contract backlog, we may experience delays in completing projects in accordance with project schedules, which may have an adverse effect on our financial results and harm our reputation. Further, the increased demand for personnel and specialty subcontractors may result in higher costs which could cause us to exceed the budget on a project, which in turn may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and harm our relationships with our 18 customers. In addition, if we lack the personnel and specialty subcontractors necessary to perform on our current contract backlog, we may find it necessary to curtail our pursuit of new projects. An inability to obtain bonding could limit the number of projects we are able to pursue. As is customary in the construction business, we often are required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance under construction contracts. Our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise and certain external factors, including the overall capacity of the surety market. Surety companies consider such factors in relation to the amount of our backlog and their underwriting standards, which may change from time to time. Since 2001, the surety industry has undergone significant changes with several companies withdrawing completely from the industry or significantly reducing their bonding commitment. In addition, certain reinsurers of surety risk have limited their participation in this market. Therefore, we could be unable to obtain surety bonds, when required, which could adversely affect our future results of operations and revenues. Conflicts of interest may arise involving certain of our directors. We have engaged in joint ventures, primarily in civil construction, with O&G Industries, Inc., a Connecticut corporation, whose Vice Chairman is Raymond R. Oneglia, one of our directors. The terms of our joint ventures with any affiliate have been and will be subject to review and approval by our Audit Committee. As in any joint venture, we could have disagreements with our joint venture partner over the operation of a joint venture or a joint venture could be involved in disputes with third parties, where we may or may not have an identity of interest with our joint venture partner. These relationships also may create conflicts of interest with respect to new business and other corporate opportunities. Our reputation may be harmed and our future earnings may be negatively impacted if we are unable to retain key members of our management. Our business substantially depends on the continued service of key members of our management, particularly Ronald N. Tutor, Robert Band, Craig W. Shaw, Mark A. Caspers, Richard J. Rizzo, Claude K. Olsen, Jack Frost, Martin B. Sisemore, William R. Derrer and Kenneth R. Burk, who, collectively, have an average of more than 30 years in the construction industry. Losing the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business until a suitable replacement can be found. We believe that they could not quickly be replaced with executives of equal experience and capabilities. Generally these executives are not bound by employment agreements with us and we do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of these executives. Our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by work stoppages and other labor problems. We are a signatory to numerous local and regional collective bargaining agreements, both directly and through trade associations. Future agreements reached in collective bargaining could increase our operating costs and reduce our profits as a result of increased wages and benefits. If we or our trade associations are unable to negotiate with any of our unions, we might experience strikes, work stoppages or increased operating costs as a result of higher than anticipated wages or benefits. If our unionized workers engage in a strike or other work stoppage, or our non-unionized employees become unionized, we could experience a disruption of our operations and higher ongoing labor costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to restrictive covenants under our credit facility that could limit our flexibility in managing the business. Our credit facility imposes operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions include, among other things, limitations on our ability to: § create liens or other encumbrances; 19 § enter into certain types of transactions with our affiliates; § make certain capital expenditures; § make investments, loans or other guarantees; § sell or otherwise dispose of a portion of our assets; or § merge or consolidate with another entity. In addition, our credit facility prohibits us from incurring debt from other sources without the consent of our lenders. Our credit facility contains financial covenants that require us to maintain minimum net worth, fixed charge coverage and asset coverage levels as well as a maximum leverage ratio. Our ability to borrow funds for any purpose is dependent upon satisfying these tests. If we are unable to meet the terms of the financial covenants or fail to comply with any of the other restrictions contained in our credit facility, an event of default could occur. An event of default, if not waived by our lenders, could result in the acceleration of any outstanding indebtedness, causing such debt to become immediately due and payable. If such an acceleration occurs, we may not be able to repay such indebtedness on a timely basis. Since our credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets, acceleration of this debt could result in foreclosure of those assets. In the event of a foreclosure, we would be unable to conduct our business and may be forced to discontinue ongoing operations. Funds associated with auction rate securities that we have traditionally held as short-term investments may not be liquid or readily available. As discussed in Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report, our investment securities consist of auction rate securities which are not currently liquid or readily available to convert to cash. If the global credit crisis persists or intensifies, it is possible that we will be required to further adjust the fair value of our auction rate securities. If we determine that the decline in the fair value of our auction rate securities is other-than-temporary, it would result in additional impairment charges being recognized in our Consolidated Statement of Operations, which could be material and which could adversely affect our financial results. In addition, the lack of liquidity associated with these investments may require us to access our credit facility until some or all of our auction rate securities are liquidated. We could face risks associated with environmental laws. We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, governing activities and operations that may have environmental or health and safety effects, such as the discharge of pollutants into the environment, the handling, storage and disposal of solid or hazardous materials or wastes and the investigation and remediation of contamination. We may be responsible for the investigation and remediation of environmental conditions at currently and formerly owned, leased, operated or used sites. We may be subject to associated liabilities, including liabilities for natural resource damage, third party property damage or personal injury resulting from lawsuits brought by the government or private litigants, relating to our operations, the operations of our facilities, or the land on which our facilities are located. We may be subject to these liabilities regardless of whether we lease or own the facility, and regardless of whether such environmental conditions were created by us or by a prior owner or tenant, or by a third party or a neighboring facility whose operations may have affected such facility or land. This is because liability for contamination under certain environmental laws can be imposed on the current or past owners or operators of a site without regard to fault. Moreover, in the course of our operations, hazardous wastes may be generated at third party owned or operated sites, and hazardous wastes may be disposed of or treated at third party owned or operated disposal sites. If those sites become contaminated, we could also be held responsible for the cost of investigating and remediating those sites, for any associated natural resource damage, and for civil or criminal fines or penalties. 20 We intend to continue to pursue acquisition opportunities, which may be difficult to integrate into our business. We intend to continue to pursue acquisitions as part of our growth strategy. The process of managing and integrating new acquisitions into our Company may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial, operational and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the operation, development and expansion of our existing business. To the extent that we misjudge our ability to integrate and properly manage acquisitions, we may have difficulty achieving our operating, strategic and financial objectives. Acquisitions also may involve a number of special financial, business and operational risks, such as: • difficulties in integrating diverse corporate cultures and management styles; • additional or conflicting government regulation; • disparate company policies and practices; • client relationship issues; • diversion of our management’s time, attention and resources; • decreased utilization during the integration process; • loss of key existing or acquired personnel; • increased costs to improve or coordinate managerial, operational, financial and administrative systems; • dilutive issuances of equity securities, including convertible debt securities to finance acquisitions; • the assumption of legal liabilities; and • amortization of acquired intangible assets. In addition to the integration challenges mentioned above, acquisitions of non-U.S. companies offer distinct integration challenges relating to non-U.S. GAAP financial reporting, foreign laws and governmental regulations, including tax and employee benefit laws, and other factors relating to operating in countries other than the United States, which are discussed above in the discussion regarding the difficulties we may face operating outside of the United States. In connection with mergers and acquisitions, we have recorded goodwill and other intangible assets that could become impaired and adversely affect our operating results. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, our mergers and acquisitions have been accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. Under the purchase method of accounting, the total purchase price we pay is allocated to the acquired company’s tangible assets and liabilities and identifiable intangible assets based on their estimated fair values as of the date of completion of the merger or acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over those estimated fair values is recorded as goodwill. We test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually, in the fourth quarter of each year, and between tests if events occur or circumstances change which suggest that the goodwill or intangible assets should be evaluated. At December 31, 2008, the carrying value of the goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets recorded in mergers and acquisitions totaled $676.9 million and represents 22% of our total assets of $3.1 billion. To the extent the value of the goodwill or other intangible assets becomes impaired in the future, we will be required to incur non-cash charges to the Consolidated Statements of Operations relating to such impairment. If Black Construction’s opportunity to win significant business from the expansion of the United States military’s operations on the island of Guam does not develop as anticipated, our growth prospects, revenues and earnings could be adversely affected. A significant portion of the future revenues and growth prospects of Black Construction, one of our subsidiaries, over the next several years is expected to involve the construction of facilities for the expansion of the United States military’s base on the island of Guam. This construction is dependent upon the continued implementation of the United States military’s announced plan to relocate 8,000 Marines and other military personnel from Okinawa, Japan to the island of Guam by 2014. The continued implementation of the United States military’s plan, and the amount of work that Black Construction wins and performs in connection with the expansion of the United States military’s base on the island of Guam, depends upon a number of factors, including: 21 • competition from other construction companies operating on the island of Guam; • the political environment in the United States and Japan; • the financial and other terms agreed upon between the United States and Japan with respect to the relocation; • the United States military’s and the Japanese government’s availability of funds for the continued funding of the expansion and relocation in light of funding demands for other national priorities and commitments; • political, military and terrorist activities that affect the United States foreign policy; • the ability of the Company to invest sufficiently, and on favorable terms, in expanding Black Construction’s capabilities on the island of Guam, including hiring and relocating necessary personnel, acquiring land (including for warehousing and barracks) and acquiring and relocating equipment; and • economic, political and other risks relating to business outside of the United States (despite the fact that the island of Guam is a United States territory). Any of these factors could result in a delay or cancellation of some or all of the anticipated work on the island of Guam, which would have an adverse effect on our growth prospects, future revenues and future earnings of the combined company. As a result of the merger with Tutor-Saliba, we have added new lines of businesses. These acquisitions expose us to additional risks that, if realized, could adversely affect our future financial performance and operations. In 2007 and 2008, Tutor-Saliba acquired two businesses—Powerco Electric Corp., an electrical construction subcontractor, and Desert Plumbing & Heating Co., Inc., a plumbing and mechanical (including HVAC) subcontractor—and certain material mining contracts and material stockpiles in Nevada (which are referred to as the aggregates business). Although Tutor-Saliba has some experience managing and operating these types of businesses, the Company has not had any previous experience in these lines of business. Such new lines of business involve additional risks, such as those associated with entry into new markets, new operating activities, risks associated with integrating the operations of the acquired business into existing operations, managerial challenges and risks associated with marketing and delivering the goods and services provided by these new businesses. There is no assurance that these new businesses will be operated successfully, will be integrated into our operations or will produce the financial and operating benefits that Tutor-Saliba expected, in making these acquisitions, or that we anticipated in negotiating the terms of the merger and valuing Tutor-Saliba. If the acquired businesses do not perform as expected, or if they are not successfully integrated and managed, the financial performance of our business may be adversely affected. We may not realize some or all of the expected benefits of our merger with Tutor-Saliba that were considered in negotiating the terms of the merger. Our Company entered into the merger with Tutor-Saliba with the expectation that it would result in various benefits, including, among other things, synergies, cost savings and operating efficiencies. In negotiating the merger, we used what we believe to be a reasonable estimate of benefits we would start to realize from the merger in 2009. These estimates were based on assumptions and judgments, which are difficult to predict and which are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. As a result, we may not realize all of these benefits within the timeframes or in the amounts expected. If we do not realize the expected benefits from the merger within the timeframes or in the amounts expected, the trading price of our common stock may decline. Ronald N. Tutor’s ownership interest in the Company, along with his management position and his right to designate up to two nominees to serve as members of our board of directors, will provide him with significant influence over corporate matters and may make a third party’s acquisition of the Company (or its stock or assets) more difficult. As of December 31, 2008, two trusts controlled by Mr. Tutor owned approximately 46% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. In addition, Mr. Tutor is the chairman and chief executive officer of the Company and has the right to designate up to two nominees for election as members of the Company’s board of directors. As of the date of this Form 10-K, Mr. Tutor has appointed only one director, and together with himself controls 2 of 11 directors. If Mr. Tutor fully exercises his right to appoint two directors, he and his two designees would be 3 of 11 directors, as the size 22 of the board would not increase. Although the Shareholders Agreement imposes significant limits on Mr. Tutor’s right to vote the shares of our common stock held by Mr. Tutor, two trusts controlled by him and any other affiliates of Mr. Tutor or the trusts (the “Tutor Group”), or to take specified actions that may facilitate an unsolicited acquisition of control of the Company by Mr. Tutor or his affiliates, Mr. Tutor will nonetheless still be able to exert significant influence over the outcome of a range of corporate matters, including significant corporate transactions requiring a shareholder vote, such as a merger or a sale of the Company or its assets. This concentration of ownership and influence in management and board decision-making also could harm the price of our common stock by, among other things, discouraging a potential acquirer from seeking to acquire shares of our common stock (whether by making a tender offer or otherwise) or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company. We will incur significant compliance, restructuring and other integration costs following the merger with Tutor-Saliba. We will incur restructuring and integration costs following the merger with Tutor-Saliba. Based on the experience of other merged companies and initial management estimates, costs to integrate computer systems, facilities and insurance arrangements, as well as equipment sizing, employee relocation, retention and severance costs are expected to be incurred. The costs to be incurred are not readily quantifiable and depend on decisions to be made during integration. The costs will be recorded as an expense in the period incurred. In addition, it is expected that our costs related to legal and regulatory compliance may increase substantially, at least in the near term, because Tutor-Saliba has not previously been required to comply with the reporting, internal control, public disclosure and similar legal and regulatory compliance obligations and requirements applicable to publicly traded companies. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, may offset incremental compliance and restructuring costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term or at all. The public resale by former Tutor-Saliba shareholders of our common stock received in the Tutor-Saliba merger could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. In the Tutor-Saliba merger, we issued a total of approximately 22.1 million shares of our common stock to two trusts controlled by Mr. Tutor and approximately 900,000 shares to the other shareholders of Tutor-Saliba. None of these shares are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, and they will only be able to be resold pursuant to a separate registration statement or an applicable exemption from registration (under both federal and state securities laws). The shares are subject to contractual restrictions under the terms of the Shareholders Agreement. Under those restrictions, none of those shares are permitted to be resold for six months after completion of the merger (except with the consent of the Company’s board of directors or in a registered offering). Thereafter, the trusts will be permitted to sell, in the aggregate, a maximum of approximately 6.6 million shares of our common stock through the fifth anniversary of the completion of the merger (unless the Company’s board of directors allows otherwise). Mr. Tutor has indicated that he intends to cause the Tutor Group to sell a portion of the shares of our common stock received in the merger as soon as the initial six-month period lapses on March 8, 2009, subject to market conditions and the terms of the Shareholders Agreement. The Tutor Group has certain rights to require the Company to register their shares for public resale under the terms of the Shareholders Agreement. In addition, if we propose to register any of our shares in a registered public offering, the Tutor Group has a right to include its shares in such offering through a valid piggyback registration of shares, subject to the right of the underwriters of an offering to limit the number of shares included in such registration. If all or a substantial portion of these shares of our common stock issued in the Tutor-Saliba merger are resold into the public markets, such transactions may cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. We will have continuing contractual obligations with Mr. Tutor, which may create conflicts of interest or may not be practical to enforce on our behalf. The Company and the former Tutor-Saliba shareholders, including Mr. Tutor, continue to have obligations following completion of the Tutor-Saliba merger. These obligations include indemnification obligations, which may entitle the Company to seek recovery from the former Tutor-Saliba shareholders for losses related to pre-merger actions or omissions of Tutor-Saliba. In addition, the Employment Agreement, the Shareholders Agreement and the notes issued 23 by Tutor-Saliba also include obligations that are in effect, including the restrictions on competitive activities, several of which may be impacted by the operating performance of the Company or Tutor-Saliba or the activities of Mr. Tutor. In light of the important role Mr. Tutor serves for the Company, it may be more difficult, impractical or inadvisable for the Company to enforce or assert defenses with respect to these contractual obligations against Mr. Tutor than against an unaffiliated third party, which may create a conflict of interest for the Company or Mr. Tutor. Other former Tutor-Saliba shareholders are also expected to have continuing roles with the Company, and a similar conflict of interest may arise, although their interests in the Company will be significantly less than Mr. Tutor’s. If we determine that these contractual obligations should not be enforced even if there is a valid claim for enforcement or a valid defense to the enforcement of these obligations, we may not get the entire benefit for which it negotiated in these agreements, including recovery for certain losses related to Tutor-Saliba for which it otherwise would be entitled to indemnification. The Company, the Company’s directors and Tutor-Saliba are named parties to lawsuits relating to the merger that could cause us to incur substantial costs. A class-action complaint on behalf of a putative Perini stockholder class against the Company, the Company’s current directors and Tutor-Saliba relating to the merger is pending in Massachusetts state court. Depending on the outcome, the action and any future similar actions could result in substantial costs to us. In addition, the cost to us of defending the action and any future similar actions, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial and could divert the attention of our management and its resources in general. See Note 9(h)(1) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 24 