Item 1A. Risk Factors Some statements contained in, or incorporated by reference in, this report are forward-looking and are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties. Similarly, the press releases we issue and other public statements we make from time to time may contain language that is forward-looking. These forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as “forecast,” “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “should,” “plan,” “estimate,” and “potential,” among others. The forward-looking statements contained in this report are based on our current expectations, and those made at other times will be - 45 - Table of Contents based on our expectations when the statements are made. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statements will be realized. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a “safe harbor” for forward-looking statements. To comply with the terms of the safe harbor, we note that a variety of factors could cause actual results and experience to differ materially from anticipated results or other expectations expressed in forward-looking statements. We also note that achievement of anticipated results or expectations in forward-looking statements is subject to the possibility that assumptions underlying forward-looking statements will prove to be inaccurate. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance, development, and results of the Applied Biosystems and Celera businesses include, but are not limited to, those described below under the headings “Risks Relating to Applied Biosystems” and “Risks Relating to Celera. We note that our businesses could be affected by other factors that we have not disclosed because we think they are immaterial. Also, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that could affect our businesses but which are not currently known to us. Owners of Applera-Applied Biosystems stock and Applera-Celera stock are also subject to risks arising from their ownership of common stock of a corporation with two separate classes of common stock. The risks and uncertainties that arise from our capital structure, particularly our two separate classes of common stock, include, but are not limited to, those described below under the heading “Risks Relating to a Capital Structure with Two Separate Classes of Common Stock.” Risks Relating to Applied Biosystems Rapidly changing technology in life sciences could make Applied Biosystems’ product line obsolete unless it continues to develop and manufacture new and improved products and services, and pursue new market opportunities. A significant portion of the net revenues for Applied Biosystems each year is derived from products and services that did not exist in the prior year. We sell our products in several industries that are characterized by rapid and significant technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements, and evolving industry standards. Applied Biosystems’ future success depends on its ability to continually improve its current products and services, develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products and services that address the evolving needs of its customers, and pursue new market opportunities that develop as a result of technological and scientific advances in life sciences. These new market opportunities may be outside the scope of Applied Biosystems’ proven expertise or in areas which have unproven market demand, and the utility and value of new products and services developed by Applied Biosystems may not be accepted in the markets served by the new products. This includes, for example, new products under development for the clinical diagnostics market, which are described in the immediately following paragraph. The inability to gain market acceptance of new products and services could harm Applied Biosystems’ future operating results. Applied Biosystems’ future success also depends on its ability to manufacture these improved and new products to meet customer demand in a timely and cost-effective manner, including its ability to resolve in a timely manner manufacturing issues that may arise from time to time as Applied Biosystems commences production of these complex products. Unanticipated difficulties or delays in replacing existing products and services with new products and services or in manufacturing improved or new - 46 - Table of Contents products in sufficient quantities to meet customer demand could diminish future demand for Applied Biosystems’ products and services and its future operating results. Applied Biosystems may not successfully develop instruments for use in the clinical diagnostics market, and even if it does develop these products they may not receive needed regulatory clearances or approvals and Applied Biosystems may not be able to manufacture these products in accordance with regulatory requirements. Applied Biosystems intends to commit significant resources to the development of instruments for use in the clinical diagnostics market. Although Applied Biosystems has experience in developing and commercializing instrumentation for the life science research market, Applied Biosystems has only limited prior experience with products of any type for use in the regulated clinical diagnostics market. This is an emerging business area for Applied Biosystems, and Applied Biosystems may not have or be able to obtain the necessary expertise to successfully develop instruments for use in this market. In addition, in the U.S. and other countries, instruments cannot be marketed for clinical diagnostics use until they first receive regulatory clearance or approval. The regulatory review and clearance or approval process can be time consuming and require substantial expense and may not be successful. Even if Applied Biosystems obtains regulatory clearance or approval for an instrument for use in the clinical diagnostics market, the manufacture, sale, and distribution of that product may be subject to ongoing regulatory requirements. The inability to comply with these requirements could cause Applied Biosystems to suspend the manufacture or sale of these products and delay or prevent Applied Biosystems from generating revenues from the sale of these products. Applied Biosystems relies on other companies for the manufacture of some of its products and also for the supply of some components of the products it manufactures on its own. Although Applied Biosystems has contracts with most of these manufacturers and suppliers, their operations could be disrupted. These disruptions could be caused by conditions unrelated to Applied Biosystems’ business or operations, including the bankruptcy of the manufacturer or supplier. Although Applied Biosystems has its own manufacturing facilities, and generally believes it might be able to manufacture some of the products and components currently sourced from other companies, it also believes that it could take considerable time and resources to establish the capability to do so. Accordingly, if these other manufacturers or suppliers are unable or fail to fulfill their obligations to Applied Biosystems, Applied Biosystems might not be able to satisfy customer demand in a timely manner, and its business could be harmed. A significant portion of sales depends on customers’ capital spending policies that may be subject to significant and unexpected decreases. A significant portion of Applied Biosystems’ instrument product sales are capital purchases by its customers. Applied Biosystems’ customers include pharmaceutical, environmental, research, biotechnology, and chemical companies, and the capital spending policies of these companies can have a significant effect on the demand for Applied Biosystems’ products. These policies are based on a wide variety of factors, including the resources available to make purchases, the spending priorities among various types of research equipment, and policies regarding capital expenditures during recessionary periods. Any decrease in capital spending or change in spending policies of these companies could significantly reduce the demand for Applied Biosystems’ products. - 47 - Table of Contents A substantial portion of Applied Biosystems’ sales is to customers at universities or research laboratories whose funding is dependent on both the amount and timing of funding from government sources. As a result, the timing and amount of revenues from these sources may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast. Research funding for life science research has increased more slowly during the past several years compared to previous years and has declined in some countries, and some grants have been frozen for extended periods or otherwise become unavailable to various institutions, sometimes without advance notice. Budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations to government agencies that fund research and development activities. If government funding necessary to purchase Applied Biosystems’ products were to become unavailable to researchers for any extended period of time, or if overall research funding were to decrease, Applied Biosystems’ business could be harmed. Applied Biosystems is currently, and could in the future be, subject to lawsuits, arbitrations, investigations, and other legal actions with private parties and governmental entities, particularly involving claims for infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights, and it may need to obtain licenses to intellectual property from others. Applied Biosystems believes that it has meritorious defenses against the claims currently asserted against it and intends to defend them vigorously. However, the outcome of legal actions is inherently uncertain, and Applied Biosystems cannot be sure that it will prevail in any of these actions. An adverse determination in some of Applied Biosystems’ current legal actions, particularly the cases described below, could harm our business and financial condition. Applied Biosystems’ products are based on complex, rapidly developing technologies. These products could be developed without knowledge of previously filed patent applications that mature into patents that cover some aspect of these technologies. In addition, because patent litigation is complex and the outcome inherently uncertain, Applied Biosystems’ belief that its products do not infringe valid and enforceable patents owned by others could be successfully challenged. Applied Biosystems has from time to time been notified that it may be infringing patents and other intellectual property rights of others. Also, in the course of its business, Applied Biosystems may from time to time have access to confidential or proprietary information of others, and they could bring a claim against Applied Biosystems asserting that Applied Biosystems had misappropriated their technologies, which though not patented are protected as trade secrets, and had improperly incorporated those technologies into Applied Biosystems’ products. Due to these factors, there remains a constant risk of intellectual property litigation and other legal actions, which could include antitrust claims, affecting Applied Biosystems. Applied Biosystems has been made a party to litigation and has been subject to other legal actions regarding intellectual property matters, which have included claims of violations of antitrust laws. These actions currently include the legal proceedings described in the following paragraph, some of which, if determined adversely, could harm our business and financial condition. To avoid or settle legal claims, it may be necessary or desirable in the future to obtain licenses relating to one or more products or relating to current or future technologies, and Applied Biosystems may not be able to obtain these licenses or other rights on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In some situations settlement of claims may require an agreement to cease allegedly infringing activities. - 48 - Table of Contents Several legal actions have been filed against us that could affect the intellectual property rights of Applied Biosystems and its products and services, including the following: • Enzo Biochem, Inc., Enzo Life Sciences, Inc., and Yale University have filed a lawsuit against us alleging that we are infringing six patents due to the sale of sequencing reagent kits, TaqMan® genotyping and gene expression assays, and the gene expression microarrays used with Applied Biosystems’ Expression Array System. • Michigan Diagnostics LLC has filed a complaint against us seeking a declaratory judgment of non-infringement, invalidity, and unenforceability of approximately 60 patents related to chemiluminescent products and methods, and asserting antitrust claims based on our alleged misconduct in our alleged enforcement of those patents. • Molecular Diagnostics Laboratories has filed a class action complaint against us and Hoffmann-La Roche, Inc. alleging anticompetitive conduct in connection with the sale of Taq DNA polymerase. The anticompetitive conduct is alleged to arise from the prosecution and enforcement of U.S. Patent No 4,889,818. This patent is assigned to Hoffmann-La Roche, with whom we have a commercial relationship covering, among other things, this patent and the sale of Taq DNA polymerase. • In response to claims made by us against Solexa Inc. and a former chief patent counsel to our company, Solexa has filed counterclaims against us alleging that we infringe U.S. Patent Nos. 5,750,341, 5,969,119, 6,306,597 based on our making, using, selling, and offering for sale DNA sequencing products. • In response to patent infringement claims made by us against Stratagene Corporation, Stratagene has filed counterclaims seeking declaratory judgment that our U.S. Patent No. 6,814,934 in the field of real-time PCR is invalid and not infringed. • In response to a claim that we, MDS, Inc., and our Applied Biosystems/MDS SCIEX Instruments joint venture with MDS filed against Thermo Electron Corporation, Thermo Electron has filed a counterclaim seeking a declaratory judgment that our U.S. Patent No. 4,963,736 is invalid. After the filing of this action against Thermo Electron, its subsidiary Thermo Finnigan LLC filed a lawsuit against us alleging that we are infringing one of its patents as a result of, for example, Applied Biosystems’ commercialization of the ABI PRISM® 3700 Genetic Analyzer. Thermo Finnigan subsequently filed a second lawsuit against us, MDS, and the Applied Biosystems/MDS SCIEX Instruments joint venture alleging that we and the other defendants have infringed one of Thermo Finnigan’s patents as a result of, for example, our commercialization of the API 5000™ LC/MS/MS system. These cases are described in further detail below in Item 3 of this report under the heading “Legal Proceedings–Commercial Litigation.” The cost of litigation and the amount of management time associated with these cases is expected to be significant. These matters might not be resolved favorably. If they are not resolved favorably, we could be enjoined from selling the products or services in question or other products or services as a result, and monetary or other damages could be assessed against us. These outcomes could harm the business or financial condition of our company, Applied Biosystems, or Celera. - 49 - Table of Contents Some of the intellectual property that is important to our business is owned by other companies or institutions and licensed to us, and legal actions against them could harm Applied Biosystems’ business. Even if Applied Biosystems is not a party to these legal actions, an adverse outcome could harm our business because it might prevent these other companies or institutions from continuing to license intellectual property that we may need for our business. Furthermore, an adverse outcome could result in infringement or other legal actions being brought directly against us. For example, on November 8, 2006, a patent interference proceeding was declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office between Enzo Diagnostics, Inc. and the California Institute of Technology, or Caltech, concerning a patent application owned by Enzo and U.S. Patent No. 5,821,058, owned by Caltech. The ’058 patent is exclusively licensed to us and claims methods for DNA sequencing. The Patent Office has declared the interference in order to resolve competing claims to inventorship of the subject matter of the interference. Although we are not a party to this proceeding, as exclusive licensee we are involved in the prosecution of the interference, in cooperation with Caltech, and we are funding a substantial portion of the cost of the prosecution. If Enzo prevails in the interference, the Patent Office could revoke the claims of the ’058 patent from Caltech and award substantially similar claims to Enzo, which Enzo might then assert against our DNA sequencing products and possibly other products. Applied Biosystems may become involved in legal proceedings to enforce its intellectual property rights. The intellectual property rights of biotechnology companies, including Applied Biosystems, involve complex factual, scientific, and legal questions. Even though Applied Biosystems may believe that it has a valid patent on a particular technology, other companies have from time to time taken, and may in the future take, actions that Applied Biosystems believes violate its patent rights. Although Applied Biosystems has licensing programs to provide industry access to some of its patent rights, other companies have in the past refused to participate in these licensing programs and companies may refuse to participate in them in the future, resulting in a loss of potential licensing revenue. Legal actions to enforce these patent rights can be expensive and may involve the diversion of significant management time. In addition, these legal actions could be unsuccessful and could also result in the invalidation of some of Applied Biosystems’ intellectual property rights. Since Applied Biosystems’ business is dependent on foreign sales, fluctuating currencies will make revenues and operating results more volatile. Approximately 57% of Applied Biosystems’ net revenues for our 2007 fiscal year were derived from sales to customers outside of the U.S. The majority of these sales were based on the relevant customer’s local currency. A significant portion of the related costs for Applied Biosystems are based on the U.S. dollar. As a result, Applied Biosystems’ reported and anticipated operating results and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to material changes in foreign currency exchange rates that are beyond Applied Biosystems’ control. - 50 - Table of Contents The future growth of Applied Biosystems depends in part on its ability to acquire complementary technologies through acquisitions, investments, or other strategic relationships or alliances, which may absorb significant resources, may be unsuccessful, and could dilute holders of Applera-Applied Biosystems stock. Acquisitions, investments and other strategic relationships and alliances, if pursued, may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, and expenses that could have a material effect on Applied Biosystems’ financial condition and operating results. If these types of transactions are pursued, it may be difficult for Applied Biosystems to complete these transactions quickly and to integrate these acquired operations efficiently into its current business operations. Potential technological advances resulting from the integration of technologies may not be achieved as successfully or rapidly as anticipated, if at all. Any acquisitions, investments or other strategic relationships and alliances by Applied Biosystems may ultimately harm its business and financial condition. In addition, future acquisitions may not be as successful as originally anticipated and may result in impairment charges. We have incurred these charges in recent years in relation to acquisitions. For example, since fiscal 2002 we have incurred charges for impairment of goodwill, intangibles and other assets and other charges of $30.4 million related to Celera’s acquisition of Paracel, Inc. and $14.9 million related to Applied Biosystems’ acquisition of Boston Probes, Inc. Additionally, during our 2007 and 2006 fiscal years, we incurred charges totaling $28.8 million for severance and benefit costs and asset impairments relating to Celera’s acquisition of Axys Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and its subsequent decision to partner or sell its small molecule drug discovery and development programs, and the integration of Celera Diagnostics into Celera. In addition, acquisitions and other transactions may involve the issuance of a substantial amount of Applera-Applied Biosystems stock without the approval of the holders of Applera-Applied Biosystems stock. Any issuances of this nature could be dilutive to holders of Applera-Applied Biosystems stock. Applied Biosystems’ businesses, particularly those focused on developing and marketing information-based products and services, depend on the continuous, effective, reliable, and secure operation of its computer hardware, software, and Internet applications and related tools and functions. Applied Biosystems’ business requires manipulating and analyzing large amounts of data, and communicating the results of the analysis to its internal research personnel and to its customers via the Internet. Also, Applied Biosystems relies on a global enterprise software system to operate and manage its business. Applied Biosystems’ business therefore depends on the continuous, effective, reliable, and secure operation of its computer hardware, software, networks, Internet servers, and related infrastructure. To the extent that Applied Biosystems’ hardware or software malfunctions or access to Applied Biosystems’ data by internal research personnel or customers through the Internet is interrupted, Applied Biosystems’ business could suffer. Applied Biosystems’ computer and communications hardware is protected through physical and software safeguards. However, it is still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, earthquakes, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins, software viruses, and similar events. In addition, Applied Biosystems’ online products and services are complex and sophisticated, and as such, could contain data, design, or software errors that could be difficult to detect and correct. Software defects could be found in current or future products. If Applied Biosystems fails to maintain and further develop the necessary computer capacity and data to support its computational needs and its customers’ access to information-based product and service offerings, it could experience a loss of or delay in revenues or market acceptance. In - 51 - Table of Contents addition, any sustained disruption in Internet access provided by other companies could harm Applied Biosystems. Applied Biosystems’ operations involve the use, manufacture, sale, and distribution of hazardous materials, and the mishandling of these hazardous materials could result in substantial liabilities and harm to Applied Biosystems. Applied Biosystems’ research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of potentially hazardous materials, including biological materials, chemicals, and various radioactive compounds. Also, some of Applied Biosystems’ products are hazardous materials or include hazardous materials. Applied Biosystems cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental or other contamination or injury from these materials, and Applied Biosystems could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. Under some laws and regulations, a party can be subject to “strict liability” for damages caused by some hazardous materials, which means that a party can be liable without regard to fault or negligence. In addition, Applied Biosystems is subject to federal, state, local, and foreign laws, regulations, and permits governing the use, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous materials and specified waste products, as well as the shipment and labeling of materials and products containing hazardous materials. If Applied Biosystems fails to comply with any of these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be subject to substantial fine or penalty, payment of remediation costs, loss of permits, and/or other adverse governmental action. Any of these events could harm Applied Biosystems’ business and financial condition. Earthquakes could disrupt operations in California. The headquarters and principal operations of Applied Biosystems are located in the San Francisco Bay area, a region near major California earthquake faults. The ultimate impact of earthquakes on Applied Biosystems, its significant suppliers, and the general infrastructure is unknown, but operating results could be harmed if a major earthquake occurs. Applera-Applied Biosystems stock price may be volatile. The market price of Applera-Applied Biosystems stock has in the past been and may in the future be volatile due to the risks and uncertainties described in this section of this report, as well as other factors that may have affected or may in the future affect the market price, such as: • conditions and publicity regarding the genomics, biotechnology, pharmaceutical, or life sciences industries generally; • price and volume fluctuations in the stock market at large which do not relate to Applied Biosystems’ operating performance; and • comments by securities analysts or government officials, including with regard to the viability or profitability of the biotechnology sector generally or with regard to intellectual property rights of life science companies, or Applied Biosystems’ ability to meet market expectations. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In the past, companies - 52 - Table of Contents that have experienced volatility have sometimes been the subjects of securities class action litigation. If litigation was instituted on this basis, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Risks Relating to Celera Celera’s diagnostics business is substantially dependent on a strategic alliance agreement with Abbott Laboratories. Celera entered into this agreement with Abbott for the joint discovery, development, manufacturing, and commercialization of nucleic acid-based, or molecular, diagnostic products. Although this is a long-term alliance, the alliance agreement contains provisions that could result in early termination for reasons that include the following: breach by either company; a change in control of either company; or either company’s dissatisfaction with the financial performance of the alliance according to specifically-agreed parameters and a measurement period set forth in the alliance agreement. In addition, the amount and timing of resources to be devoted to research, development, eventual clinical trials and commercialization activities by Abbott are generally not within Celera’s control. Future strategic alliances, if any, with other companies are likely to be subject to similar terms and conditions. Celera’s diagnostic product business is dependent on entering into other collaborations, alliances, and similar arrangements with other companies. Celera’s strategy for the discovery, development, clinical testing, manufacturing and/or commercialization of most of its diagnostic product candidates includes entering into these types of arrangements with other companies, in addition to its strategic alliance with Abbott Laboratories. Although Celera has expended, and continues to expend, time and money on internal research and development programs, it may be unsuccessful in creating diagnostic product candidates that would enable it to form additional collaborations and alliances and, if applicable, receive milestone and/or royalty payments from collaborators. Other companies may not be interested in entering into these relationships with Celera, or may not be interested in doing so on terms that we consider acceptable. Celera lacks the capability to develop or commercialize therapeutic products. Although Celera continues to conduct therapeutic target discovery research, it lacks the personnel or other resources necessary to develop any potential therapeutic products for those targets, to conduct clinical trials, or to manufacture, market or sell therapeutic products. As a result, for the foreseeable future Celera expects that it will be able to develop, or participate in the development of, therapeutic products for targets that it discovers and validates only by collaborating with other companies or by licensing validated targets to other companies. Celera may be unsuccessful in discovering and validating therapeutic targets to enable it to form these collaborations or enter into these licenses and, if applicable, receive license, milestone and/or royalty payments from collaborators or licensees. Other companies may not be interested in entering into these relationships with Celera, or may not be interested in doing so on terms that we consider acceptable. - 53 - Table of Contents Celera’s diagnostics business, and its commercialization of discovered therapeutic targets, could be harmed if collaborators or licensees fail to perform under their agreements with Celera or if they terminate those agreements. Each of Celera’s existing collaboration, license, and similar agreements with other companies for the development and commercialization of products may be canceled under some circumstances. In addition, the amount and timing of resources to be devoted to research, development, clinical trials, and commercialization activities by Celera’s collaborators and licensees are generally not within Celera’s control. Celera expects that collaboration, license, and similar agreements entered into in the future, if any, will have similar terms and limitations. Furthermore, even if these agreements contain commitments regarding these activities, Celera’s collaborators or licensees may not perform their obligations as expected. If collaborators or licensees terminate their agreements or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative or licensed activities in a timely manner or at all, the development or commercialization of diagnostic or therapeutic products may be delayed or prevented. If Celera assumes responsibilities for continuing diagnostic programs on its own after termination of a collaboration, license, or similar agreement, Celera may be required to devote additional resources to product development and commercialization or Celera may need to cancel some development programs. If a collaboration, license, or other agreement for a therapeutic program is terminated, Celera would not be able to assume responsibility for the continued development of that program because it lacks the resources for therapeutic product development, and the only way it could continue that program would be to find another collaborator or licensee. Celera’s efforts to discover diagnostic markers and therapeutic targets depend, in part, on the use of novel and unproven discovery methods. It is therefore possible that Celera’s discovery efforts will not result in any new diagnostic markers or therapeutic targets that could be developed into commercial diagnostic or therapeutic products. Celera and its collaborators are seeking to identify diagnostic markers that can be used to develop new diagnostic products based on information derived from the study of the genetic material of organisms, or genomics. This method carries inherent risks, as only a limited number of diagnostic products based on genomic discoveries have been developed and commercialized to date. Also, Celera is seeking to identify novel targets for the development of new treatments for disease through the use of technology in the field of proteomics, the study of proteins, and using disease association findings arising from its genomics research. To our knowledge, neither of these approaches to target discovery has to date been effectively used to develop a therapeutic product that has been commercialized, and therefore the potential benefit to Celera of its use of proteomics technology and disease association study information to support therapeutic target discovery is unknown. For some of Celera’s diagnostic research and product development programs and therapeutic target discovery research programs, Celera needs access to human tissue and/or blood samples from diseased and healthy individuals, other biological materials, and related clinical and other information, which may be in limited supply. Celera may not be able to obtain or maintain access to these materials and information on acceptable terms, or may not be able to obtain needed consents from individuals providing tissue, blood, or other samples. In addition, government regulation in the U.S. and foreign countries could result in restricted access to, or use of, human tissue or blood samples or other biological materials. - 54 - Table of Contents If Celera loses access to sufficient numbers or sources of tissue or blood samples or other required biological materials, or if tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of related clinical or other information or information generated from tissue or blood samples or other biological materials, these research and development programs and Celera’s business could be harmed. Our diagnostic product candidates may never result in a commercialized product. Most of Celera’s diagnostic product candidates are in various stages of research and development and the ability to commercialize those product candidates, including through collaborators or licensees, is highly uncertain. Development of existing product candidates will require significant additional research and development efforts by Celera or its collaborators or licensees before they can be marketed. For potential diagnostic products, these efforts include extensive clinical testing to confirm the products are safe and effective and may require lengthy regulatory review and clearance or approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and comparable agencies in other countries. Furthermore, even if these products are found to be safe and effective and receive necessary regulatory clearances or approvals, they may never be developed into commercial products due to considerations such as: inability to obtain needed licenses to intellectual property owned by others; market and competitive conditions; and manufacturing difficulties or cost considerations. If Celera or its collaborators or licensees fail to satisfy regulatory requirements for any diagnostic product candidate, Celera or its collaborators or licensees may be unable to complete the development and commercialization of that product. Celera is currently developing its internal capability to move potential diagnostic products through clinical testing, manufacturing, and the approval processes of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and comparable agencies in other countries. In the U.S., either Celera or its collaborators or licensees must show through pre-clinical studies and clinical trials that each of Celera’s or its collaborators’ or licensees’ diagnostic product candidates is safe and effective for each indication before obtaining regulatory clearance or approval from the FDA for the commercial sale of that product as an in vitro diagnostic product with clinical claims. Outside of the U.S., the regulatory requirements for commercialization vary from country to country. If Celera or its collaborators or licensees fail to adequately show the safety and effectiveness of a diagnostic product candidate, regulatory clearance or approval could be delayed or denied. The results from pre-clinical studies may be different from the results that are obtained in clinical trials, and Celera’s collaborators or licensees may not be able to show sufficient safety and effectiveness in their clinical trials to allow them to obtain the needed regulatory clearance or approval. The regulatory review and approval process can take many years and require substantial expense and may not be successful. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has issued a draft interpretation of the regulations governing the sale of Analyte Specific Reagent products which could prevent or delay our or our collaborators’ or licensees’ sales of these products and harm our business. In September 2006, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, published “Draft Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff: Commercially Distributed Analyte Specific Reagents (ASRs): Frequently Asked Questions” clarifying the FDA’s interpretation of the regulations governing the sale of Analyte Specific Reagent, or ASR, products. ASRs are a class of products that do not require regulatory clearance or approval. The draft guidance document contains an - 55 - Table of Contents interpretation of the ASR regulations that is a departure from what we believe to be the existing FDA practice and policy regarding products that can be characterized as ASRs. If this draft guidance document becomes the final guidance document, and if the FDA begins enforcing this interpretation of the ASR regulations, Celera’s current ASR products may not meet the regulatory definition of an ASR. If this were to occur, Celera or its alliance partner Abbott Laboratories might have to stop selling these ASR products until the products receive, if possible, the applicable FDA approval or clearance. Furthermore, the enforcement of this new interpretation might prevent Celera or its collaborators or licensees from developing any new products that would qualify as ASRs. Even if Celera or its collaborators or licensees obtain regulatory clearance or approval for a particular diagnostic product, that product will remain subject to ongoing regulatory requirements, and our inability to meet these requirements could prevent or require us to suspend commercialization of a product. The manufacture of our and our collaborators’ and licensees’ diagnostic products is subject to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s Quality System Regulation. The occurrence of manufacturing problems for any product, including the inability to comply with this regulation, could result in withdrawal of regulatory clearance or approval for that product, and could also force us or our collaborators or licensees to suspend manufacturing of, reformulate, conduct additional testing for, and/or change the labeling for, that product. This could delay or prevent Celera from generating revenues from the sale of any affected diagnostic product. Clinical trials of diagnostic product candidates may not be successful. Potential clinical trials may not begin on time, may not be completed on schedule, or at all, or may not be sufficient for registration of the products or result in products that can receive necessary clearances or approvals. Numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, clinical testing could delay or prevent commercialization of Celera’s or its collaborators’ or licensees’ diagnostic product candidates. Diagnostic product candidates that appear to be promising at early stages of development or early clinical trials may later be found to be unsafe, ineffective, or to have limited medical value. Collaborators or licensees may never successfully develop and commercialize therapeutic product candidates. The development and commercialization of therapeutic products by collaborators or licensees is highly uncertain and subject to a number of significant risks. Therapeutic product candidates that appear to be promising at early stages of development may later be found to be unsafe, ineffective, or to have limited medical value. These product candidates must undergo expensive and time consuming clinical trials to determine whether they are safe and effective, and then they are subject to a lengthy regulatory review for approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and comparable agencies in other countries. Furthermore, even if these products are found to be safe and effective and receive regulatory approvals, they may never be developed into commercial products due to considerations such as: inability to obtain needed licenses to intellectual property owned by others; market and competitive conditions; and manufacturing difficulties or cost considerations. Accordingly, Celera may not receive any license, milestone, royalty, or other payments or any other benefit from collaboration, license, or similar agreements for the development of therapeutic products based on targets identified and validated by Celera. - 56 - Table of Contents Celera lacks sales capability in the clinical diagnostics market. Celera currently lacks a sales organization for its diagnostic products. Accordingly, its ability to successfully sell these products depends on its ability to develop a sales organization, work with Abbott Laboratories under the existing strategic alliance agreement that is described above, work with another distributor, or pursue a combination of these alternatives. In jurisdictions where Celera uses others as distributors for its diagnostic products, its success in marketing these products depends to a great extent on the efforts of the distributors. Celera has limited manufacturing experience and capability for its diagnostic products and may encounter difficulties expanding the operations of its diagnostic products business. If diagnostic product sales or clinical trial usage needs increase, Celera may have to increase the capacity of its diagnostic product manufacturing processes and facilities or rely on its collaborators, if any, in this field of business. Celera may encounter difficulties in scaling-up diagnostic product manufacturing processes and may be unsuccessful in overcoming these difficulties. In these circumstances, Celera’s ability to meet diagnostic product demand or clinical trial usage needs may be impaired or delayed. Celera’s diagnostic product manufacturing facilities are subject, on an ongoing basis, to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s Quality System Regulation, international quality standards and other regulatory requirements, including requirements for good manufacturing practices, and the State of California Department of Health Services Food and Drug Branch requirements. Celera may encounter difficulties expanding its diagnostic product manufacturing operations in accordance with these regulations and standards, which could result in a delay or termination of manufacturing or an inability to meet product demand or clinical trial usage needs. Celera’s diagnostic product manufacturing operations are located in a facility in Alameda, California. Celera expects to operate its diagnostic product manufacturing out of this facility for the foreseeable future, and it lacks alternative production plans in place or alternative facilities available should its existing manufacturing facility cease to function. Accordingly, Celera’s diagnostic product business could be harmed by unexpected interruptions in manufacturing caused by events such as labor problems, equipment failures, or other factors, and the resulting inability to meet customer orders or clinical trial usage needs on a timely basis. Single suppliers or a limited number of suppliers provide key components of Celera’s diagnostic products. If these suppliers fail to supply these components, Celera may be unable to satisfy product demand or clinical trial usage needs. Several key components of Celera’s products come from, or are manufactured for Celera by, a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. This applies in particular to components such as enzymes, fluorescent dyes, phosphoramadites, and oligonucleotides. Celera acquires some of these and other key components on a purchase-order basis, meaning that the supplier is not required to supply Celera with specified quantities over any set period of time or set aside part of its inventory for Celera’s forecasted requirements. Celera has not arranged for alternative supply sources for some of these components and it may be difficult to find alternative suppliers, especially to replace enzymes and oligonucleotides. Furthermore, to maintain compliance with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s Quality System Regulation, Celera must verify that its suppliers of key components are in compliance with all applicable U.S. FDA regulations. Celera - 57 - Table of Contents believes that compliance with these regulatory requirements would increase the difficulty in arranging for needed alternative supply sources, particularly for components that are from “single source” suppliers, which means that they are currently the only supplier of custom-ordered components. If Celera’s diagnostic product sales increase beyond forecasted levels, or if its suppliers are unable or unwilling to supply items on commercially acceptable terms or comply with regulations applicable to manufacturing of Celera’s diagnostic products, it may not have access to sufficient quantities of key components on a timely basis and may be unable to satisfy product demand or clinical trial usage needs. In addition, if any of the components of Celera’s products are no longer available in the marketplace, it may be forced to further develop its products or technology to incorporate alternative components. The incorporation of new components into its diagnostic products may require Celera to seek clearances or approvals from the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies before commercialization. Celera’s collaborations with outside experts may be subject to restriction and change. Celera collaborates with scientific and clinical experts at academic and other institutions that provide assistance and guidance to Celera’s research and development efforts. These advisors and collaborators are not employees of Celera and may have other commitments that limit their availability to Celera. Although they generally agree not to do competing work, if a conflict of interest arises between their work for Celera and their work for another company or institution, Celera may lose the services of these experts. In addition, although Celera’s advisors and collaborators sign agreements not to disclose Celera’s confidential information, it is possible that valuable proprietary knowledge may become publicly known or otherwise available to other parties, including Celera’s competitors, through them. The diagnostics industry is intensely competitive and evolving. There is intense competition among healthcare, diagnostic, and biotechnology companies attempting to discover candidates for potential new diagnostic products. Celera is aware of competitors who are engaged in research and development projects that address the diseases that Celera is targeting. These companies may: • develop new diagnostic products in advance of Celera or its collaborators or licensees; • develop products that are more effective diagnostic products, or more cost-effective, than those developed by Celera or its collaborators or licensees; • obtain regulatory clearances or approvals of their diagnostic products more rapidly than Celera or its collaborators or licensees; or • obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that would limit the ability of Celera or its collaborators or licensees to develop and commercialize diagnostic products, or that would limit the ability of customers to use those products. Celera’s diagnostic products business competes with companies in the U.S. and abroad that are engaged in the development and commercialization of products and services that provide genetic information. These companies may develop products or services that are competitive with - 58 - Table of Contents the diagnostic products offered by Celera or its collaborators or licensees, such as analyte specific reagents, diagnostic test kits, or diagnostic testing services that perform the same or similar purposes as Celera’s or its collaborators’ or licensees’ diagnostic products. Also, clinical laboratories may offer testing services that are competitive with the diagnostic products sold by Celera or its collaborators or licensees. For example, a clinical laboratory can use either reagents purchased from manufacturers other than Celera, or use their own internally developed reagents, to make diagnostic tests. If clinical laboratories make tests in this manner for a particular disease, they could offer testing services for that disease as an alternative to diagnostic products sold by Celera or its collaborators or licensees for use in the testing of the same disease. The testing services offered by clinical laboratories may be easier to develop and market than test kits developed by Celera or its collaborators or licensees because the testing services are not subject to the same clinical validation requirements that are applicable to U.S. Food and Drug Administration cleared or approved diagnostic test kits. The diagnostic testing services market is dominated by a small number of large clinical laboratories, including Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, Quest Diagnostics Inc., and Specialty Laboratories, Inc. Also, a substantial portion of all sales of diagnostic products are made to a small number of clinical reference laboratories, including those identified above, and therefore Celera expects to rely on these laboratories for a substantial portion of its diagnostics business sales. Celera’s inability to establish or maintain one or more of these laboratories as a customer could harm its business, financial condition, and operating results. Celera’s diagnostic products may not be fully accepted by physicians and laboratories. The growth and success of Celera’s diagnostics business depends on market acceptance by physicians and laboratories of its products as clinically useful and cost-effective. Celera expects that most of its diagnostic products will use genotyping and gene expression information to predict predisposition to diseases, disease progression or severity, or responsiveness to treatment. Market acceptance depends on the widespread acceptance and use by doctors and clinicians of genetic testing for these purposes. The use of genotyping and gene expression information by doctors and clinicians for these purposes is relatively new. Doctors and clinicians may not want to use Celera’s products designed for these purposes. Even if genetic testing is accepted as a method to manage healthcare, Celera’s diagnostic products may not be accepted in the clinical diagnostics market. If genetic testing becomes widely accepted in the clinical diagnostics market, Celera cannot predict the extent to which doctors and clinicians may be willing to use Celera’s diagnostic products in providing patient care. Doctors and clinicians may prefer competing technologies and products that can be used for the same purposes as Celera’s products. If insurance companies and other third-party payors do not reimburse doctors and patients for Celera’s diagnostic tests, its ability to sell its products to the clinical diagnostics market will be impaired. Sales of Celera’s diagnostic products will depend, in large part, on the availability of adequate reimbursement to users of those products from government insurance plans, including Medicare and Medicaid in the U.S., managed care organizations, and private insurance plans. Physicians’ recommendations to use diagnostic tests, as well as decisions by patients to pursue those tests, are likely to be influenced by the availability of reimbursement by insurance companies - 59 - Table of Contents and other third-party payors. Third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both the extent of coverage and the reimbursement rate for testing and treatment products and services. In particular, products and services that are determined to be investigational in nature or that are not considered “reasonably necessary” for diagnosis or treatment may be denied reimbursement coverage. In addition, third-party payors are increasingly limiting reimbursement coverage for medical diagnostic products and, in many instances, are exerting pressure on medical suppliers to reduce their prices. Thus, third-party reimbursement may not be consistently available or financially adequate to cover the cost of Celera’s diagnostic products. This could limit the ability of Celera to sell its diagnostic products, cause Celera to reduce the prices of its products, or otherwise harm Celera’s operating results. Because each third-party payor individually approves reimbursement, obtaining these approvals is a time-consuming and costly process. Celera must provide scientific and clinical support for the use of each of its diagnostic products to each payor separately with no assurance that they will provide their approval for reimbursement. This process can delay the broad market introduction of new products and could have a negative effect on Celera’s revenues and operating results. Introduction of new diagnostic and therapeutic products may expose Celera to product liability claims. New products developed by Celera or its collaborators or licensees could expose Celera to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of human diagnostic and therapeutic products. In addition, clinicians, patients, third-party payors, and others may at times seek damages based on testing or analysis errors caused by a technician’s misreading of results, mishandling of the patient samples, or similar claims. Product liability claims or product recalls, regardless of the ultimate outcome, could require Celera to spend significant time and money in litigation and to pay significant damages. Although Celera expects to seek and maintain product liability insurance to cover claims relating to the testing and use of diagnostic and therapeutic products, it may not be able to obtain the insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or it may not be able to obtain coverage in an amount that will be adequate to cover losses from any particular claim. Also, although Celera expects that it will be involved in the commercialization of therapeutic products only through other companies who develop and market those products under collaboration, license, or similar agreements, Celera could be indirectly exposed to product liability claims under applicable laws or regulations or due to the terms and conditions of those agreements. Celera’s operations involve the use, manufacture, sale, and distribution of hazardous materials, and the mishandling of these hazardous materials could result in substantial liabilities and harm to Celera. Celera’s diagnostic and therapeutic research and development activities, and diagnostic manufacturing activities, involve the controlled use of potentially hazardous materials, including biological materials, chemicals, and various radioactive compounds. Also, some of Celera’s diagnostic products, including products sold through its strategic alliance with Abbott Laboratories, are hazardous materials or include hazardous materials. Celera cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental or other contamination or injury from these materials, and Celera could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. Under some laws and regulations, a party can be subject to “strict liability” for damages caused by some hazardous materials, which means that a party can be liable without regard to fault or negligence. Furthermore, Celera could be held - 60 - Table of Contents indirectly responsible for contamination or injury arising from the conduct of Abbott Laboratories in manufacturing, selling, or distributing alliance diagnostic products. Celera could be held similarly responsible for the actions of its other collaborators or licensees. In addition, Celera is subject to federal, state, local, and foreign laws, regulations, and permits governing the use, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous materials and specified waste products, as well as the shipment and labeling of materials and products containing hazardous materials. If Celera fails to comply with any of these laws, regulations, or permits, or if Celera is held indirectly responsible for conduct of Abbott Laboratories or other collaborators or licensees found to be non-compliant, we could be subject to substantial fine or penalty, payment of remediation costs, loss of permits, and/or other adverse governmental action. Any of these events could harm Celera’s business and financial condition. Celera’s business depends on the continuous, effective, reliable, and secure operation of its computer hardware, software, and Internet applications and related tools and functions. Celera’s business requires manipulating and analyzing large amounts of data, and communicating the results of the analysis to its internal research personnel and its collaborators via the Internet. Also, Celera relies on a global enterprise software system to operate and manage its business. Celera’s business therefore depends on the continuous, effective, reliable, and secure operation of its computer hardware, software, networks, Internet servers, and related infrastructure. To the extent that Celera’s hardware or software malfunctions or access to Celera’s data by Celera’s internal research personnel or collaborators through the Internet is interrupted, Celera’s business could suffer. Celera’s computer and communications hardware is protected through physical and software safeguards. However, it is still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, earthquakes, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins, software viruses, and similar events. If Celera fails to maintain and further develop the necessary computer capacity and data to support its and its collaborators’ and licensees’ discovery, research, and development activities, including its associated computational needs, it could experience a loss of or delay in revenues. In addition, any sustained disruption in Internet access provided by other companies could harm Celera’s business. Celera’s competitive position depends on maintaining its intellectual property protection. Celera’s ability to compete and to achieve and maintain profitability depends, in part, on its ability to protect its proprietary discoveries and technologies through obtaining and enforcing patent rights, obtaining copyright protection, maintaining its trade secrets, and operating without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. Celera’s ability to obtain patent protection for the inventions it makes, including those relating to novel methods of diagnosing and/or treating diseases, is uncertain. The patentability of these and other types of biotechnology inventions involves complex factual, scientific, and legal questions. As a result, it is difficult to predict whether patents will issue or the breadth of claims that will be allowed in biotechnology patents. This may be particularly true with regard to the patenting of gene sequences, gene functions, and genetic variations. In this regard, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has adopted guidelines for use in the review of the utility of inventions, particularly biotechnology inventions. These guidelines increased the amount of evidence required to demonstrate utility to obtain a patent in the biotechnology field, making patent protection more difficult to obtain. Also, future changes in - 61 - Table of Contents policies or laws, or interpretations of these policies or laws, relevant to the patenting of biotechnology inventions could harm our patent position in the U.S. or other countries. Opposition to the protection of these inventions in the U.S. or other countries could result in stricter standards for obtaining or enforcing biotechnology patent rights. In some instances, patent applications in the U.S. are maintained in secrecy until a patent issues. In most instances, the content of U.S. and international patent applications is made available to the public approximately 18 months after the initial filing from which priority is claimed. As a result, Celera may not be aware that others have filed patent applications for inventions covered by Celera’s patent applications and may incorrectly believe that Celera inventors were the first to make the invention. Accordingly, Celera’s patent applications may be preempted or Celera may have to participate in interference proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. These proceedings determine the priority of invention and the right to a patent for the claimed invention in the U.S. Celera also relies on trade secret protection for its confidential and proprietary information and procedures, including procedures related to sequencing genes and to searching and identifying important regions of genetic information. Celera protects its trade secrets through recognized practices, including access control, confidentiality and non-use agreements with employees, consultants, collaborators and customers, and other security measures. These confidentiality and non-use agreements may be breached, however, and Celera may not have adequate remedies for a breach. In addition, Celera’s trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. Accordingly, it is uncertain whether Celera’s reliance on trade secret protection will be adequate to safeguard its confidential and proprietary information and procedures. Disputes may arise in the future with regard to the ownership of rights to any invention developed with collaborators. These and other possible disagreements with collaborators could lead to delays in the achievement of milestones or receipt of royalty payments or in research, development and commercialization of Celera’s or its collaborators’ diagnostic products. In addition, these disputes could require or result in lawsuits or arbitration. Lawsuits and arbitration are time-consuming and expensive. Even if Celera wins, the cost of these proceedings could harm its business, financial condition, and operating results. Celera may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, may become involved in expensive intellectual property legal proceedings, and may need to obtain licenses to intellectual property from others. There has been substantial litigation and other legal proceedings regarding patents and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology, pharmaceutical, and diagnostics industries. The intellectual property rights of biotechnology companies, including Celera, are generally uncertain and involve complex factual, scientific, and legal questions. Celera’s success in diagnostic product development and therapeutic target discovery may depend, in part, on its ability to operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others and to prevent others from infringing its intellectual property rights. Also, contractual disputes related to existing license rights to patents owned by others may affect Celera’s ability to develop, manufacture, and sell its products. Celera may initiate proceedings at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine its patent rights with respect to others, referred to as interference proceedings. Also, Celera may - 62 - Table of Contents initiate patent litigation to enforce its patent rights or invalidate patents held by others. These legal actions may similarly be initiated against Celera by others alleging that Celera is infringing their rights. The cost to Celera of any patent litigation or proceedings, even if Celera is successful, could be substantial, and these legal actions may absorb significant management time. If infringement claims against Celera are resolved unfavorably to Celera, Celera may be enjoined from manufacturing or selling its products or services without a license from a third party, and Celera may not be able to obtain a license on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. Also, Celera could become subject to significant liabilities to others if these claims are resolved unfavorably to Celera. Similarly, our business could be harmed and we could be subject to liabilities because of lawsuits brought by others against Abbott Laboratories, with whom we have a strategic alliance. For example, Abbott has been sued by Innogenetics N.V. for patent infringement due to Abbott’s sale of hepatitis C virus, or HCV, genotyping analyte specific reagents, or ASRs, manufactured by Celera for Abbott. In September 2006, a jury rendered a verdict against Abbott and awarded $7 million in monetary damages to Innogenetics. We have agreed to share the cost of this litigation, including these damages, and we are also subject to a permanent injunction that was issued by the court after the jury verdict, in January 2007, that prohibits us or Abbott from manufacturing or selling HCV genotyping products, including the ASRs. Abbott is appealing the verdict but it may not be successful, and the appeal process may take a year or more to conclude. The alliance therefore will not receive any revenues from the sale of the HCV genotyping ASRs or other HCV genotyping products for the foreseeable future because of the permanent injunction. Furthermore, even if Abbott succeeds in its appeal and the injunction is lifted in the future, we cannot predict whether and to what extent there may continue to be a market for these products at a time in the future. Ethical, legal, and social issues related to the use of genetic information and genetic testing may cause less demand for Celera’s diagnostic products. Genetic testing has raised issues regarding confidentiality and the appropriate uses of the resulting information. For example, concerns have been expressed regarding the use of genetic test results by insurance carriers or employers to discriminate on the basis of this information, resulting in barriers to the acceptance of genetic tests by consumers. This could lead to governmental authorities calling for limits on or regulation of the use of genetic testing or prohibiting testing for genetic predisposition to some diseases, particularly those that have no known cure. Any of these scenarios could reduce the potential markets for Celera’s products. Celera may pursue acquisitions, investments, or other strategic relationships or alliances, which may consume significant resources, may be unsuccessful, and could dilute the holders of Applera-Celera stock. Acquisitions, investments and other strategic relationships and alliances, if pursued, may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, additional operating losses, and expenses that could have a material effect on Celera’s financial condition and operating results. Acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: • diversion of management from daily operations; • difficulties integrating acquired technologies and personnel into Celera’s business; • inability to obtain required financing on favorable terms; - 63 - Table of Contents • entry into new markets in which Celera has little previous experience; • potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships, or key customers of acquired companies or of Celera; and • assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies. If these types of transactions are pursued, it may be difficult for Celera to complete these transactions quickly and to integrate these acquired operations efficiently into its current business operations. Any acquisitions, investments or other strategic relationships and alliances by Celera may ultimately harm its business and financial condition. In addition, future acquisitions may not be as successful as originally anticipated and may result in impairment charges. We have incurred these charges in recent years in relation to acquisitions. For example, since fiscal 2002 we have incurred charges for impairment of goodwill, intangibles and other assets and other charges of $30.4 million related to Celera’s acquisition of Paracel, Inc. and $14.9 million related to Applied Biosystems’ acquisition of Boston Probes, Inc. Additionally, during our 2007 and 2006 fiscal years, we incurred charges totaling $28.8 million for severance and benefit costs and asset impairments relating to Celera’s acquisition of Axys Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and its subsequent decision to partner or sell its small molecule drug discovery and development programs, and the integration of Celera Diagnostics into Celera. In addition, acquisitions and other transactions may involve the issuance of a substantial amount of Applera-Celera stock without the approval of the holders of Applera-Celera stock. Any issuances of this nature could be dilutive to holders of Applera-Celera stock. Earthquakes could disrupt operations in California. Celera has headquarters, research and development, manufacturing, and administrative facilities in Alameda, California. Alameda is located near major California earthquake faults. The ultimate impact of earthquakes on Celera, its significant suppliers, and the general infrastructure is unknown, but operating results could be harmed if a major earthquake occurs. Applera-Celera stock price may be volatile. The market price of Applera-Celera stock has in the past been and may in the future be volatile due to the risks and uncertainties described in this section of this report, as well as other factors that may have affected or may in the future affect the market price, such as: • conditions and publicity regarding the genomics, biotechnology, pharmaceutical, diagnostics, or life sciences industries generally; • price and volume fluctuations in the stock market at large which do not relate to Celera’s operating performance; and • comments by securities analysts or government officials, including with regard to the viability or profitability of the biotechnology sector generally or with regard to - 64 - Table of Contents intellectual property rights of life science companies, or Celera’s ability to meet market expectations. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility have sometimes been the subjects of securities class action litigation. If litigation was instituted on this basis, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Our company is subject to a class action lawsuit relating to its 2000 offering of shares of Applera-Celera stock that may be expensive and time consuming. Our company and some of our officers are defendants in a lawsuit brought on behalf of purchasers of Applera-Celera stock in our follow-on public offering of Applera-Celera stock completed on March 6, 2000. In the offering, we sold an aggregate of approximately 4.4 million shares of Applera-Celera stock at a public offering price of $225 per share. The lawsuit was commenced with the filing of several complaints in 2000, which have been consolidated into a single case which has been certified by the court as a class action. The consolidated complaint generally alleges that the prospectus used in connection with the offering was inaccurate or misleading because it failed to adequately disclose the alleged opposition of the Human Genome Project and two of its supporters, the governments of the U.S. and the U.K., to providing patent protection to our genomic-based products. Although Celera has never sought, or intended to seek, a patent on the basic human genome sequence data, the complaint also alleges that we did not adequately disclose the risk that Celera would not be able to patent this data. The consolidated complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages, rescission, costs and expenses, and other relief as the court deems proper. Although we believe the asserted claims are without merit and intend to defend the case vigorously, the outcome of this or any other litigation is inherently uncertain. The defense of this case will require management attention and resources. Risks Relating to a Capital Structure with Two Separate Classes of Common Stock Stockholders of Applera Corporation are stockholders of one company and, therefore, financial effects on one group could harm the other. Applied Biosystems and Celera are not separate legal entities. As a result, holders of either class of our common stock are subject to all of the risks of an investment in Applera Corporation, including Applied Biosystems and Celera, regardless of which class they own. Material risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance, development, and results of the businesses of Applied Biosystems and Celera are described above. The assets attributed to one group could be subject to the liabilities of the other group, even if these liabilities arise from lawsuits, contracts, or indebtedness that we attribute to the other group. If we are unable to satisfy one group’s liabilities out of the assets attributed to it, we may be required to satisfy those liabilities with assets attributed to the other group. Financial effects from one group that affect our consolidated results of operations or financial condition could, if significant, affect the results of operations or financial condition of the other group and the market price of the common stock relating to the other group. In addition, net losses of either group and dividends or distributions on, or repurchases of, either class of common stock or repurchases of preferred stock will reduce the funds we can pay as dividends on each class - 65 - Table of Contents of common stock under Delaware law. For these reasons, stockholders should read the consolidated financial information with the financial information we provide for each group. The market price of either class of our common stock may not reflect the separate performance of the group related to that common stock. The market price of Applera-Applied Biosystems stock and Applera-Celera stock may not reflect the separate performance of the business of the group relating to that class of common stock. The market price of either class of common stock could simply reflect our performance as a whole, or the market price of either class of common stock could move independently of the performance of the business of either group. Investors may discount the value of either class of common stock because it is part of a common enterprise rather than a stand-alone company. The market price of either class of our common stock may be affected by factors that do not affect traditional common stock. • The market price of one or both of our two classes of common stock may decrease or be discounted because of the complex nature of the terms of the two classes. Investors may discount the value of either class because, for example, our certificate of incorporation allows us to convert one class into the other class. Also, investors may discount the value of either class because they do not understand the terms as specified in our certificate of incorporation. • The market price of one or both of our two classes of common stock may decrease or be discounted because holders do not have the same legal interest in our Applied Biosystems and Celera businesses that they would have if the two businesses were separate companies that issued their own common stock . For example, as described in greater detail in the subsequent risk factors, holders of either class of common stock generally do not have separate class voting rights with respect to significant matters affecting either group. In addition, upon our liquidation or dissolution, holders of either class of common stock will not have specific rights to the assets of the group relating to the class of common stock held and will not be entitled to receive proceeds that are proportional to the relative performance of that group. • The market price of one or both of our two classes of common stock may decrease or be discounted because of events involving the group relating to the other class of common stock. For example, if one of the groups announces poor financial or operating performance, or other developments that the financial community considers to be negative news, the market price of the class of common stock relating to that group may decrease, and this may also cause the market price of the other class of common stock to decrease. Because both classes of common stock are common stock of Applera Corporation, a decrease in the market price of one class of common stock may, by association, cause a decrease in the market price of the other class of common stock. This reaction may occur even if the triggering event was not material to us as a whole. Limits exist on the voting power of group common stock. • Applera-Celera stock may not have any influence on the outcome of stockholder voting. Applera-Applied Biosystems stock currently has a substantial majority of the - 66 - Table of Contents voting power of our common stock and had approximately 85% of the voting power as of July 27, 2007. Except in limited circumstances where there is separate class voting, the relative voting power of the two classes of common stock fluctuates based on their relative market values. Therefore, except in cases of separate class voting, either class of common stock that is entitled to more than the number of votes required to approve any stockholder action could control the outcome of the vote even if the matter involves a divergence or conflict of the interests of the holders of Applera-Applied Biosystems stock and Applera-Celera stock. These matters may include mergers and other extraordinary transactions. • A class of group common stock with less than majority voting power can block action if a class vote is required. If Delaware law, stock exchange rules, or our Board of Directors requires a separate vote on a matter by the holders of either Applera-Applied Biosystems stock or Applera-Celera stock, those holders could prevent approval of the matter even if the holders of a majority of the total number of votes cast or entitled to be cast, voting together as a class, were to vote in favor of it. As a result, in cases where holders of Applera-Applied Biosystems stock or Applera-Celera stock vote as separate classes on a proposal, the affirmative vote of shares representing a majority of one class of common stock will not prevent the holders of the other class of common stock from defeating the proposal. • Holders of only one class of common stock cannot ensure that their voting power will be sufficient to protect their interests. Since the relative voting power per share of Applera-Applied Biosystems stock and Applera-Celera stock will fluctuate based on the market values of the two classes of common stock, the relative voting power of a class of common stock could decrease. As a result, holders of shares of only one of the two classes of common stock cannot ensure that their voting power will be sufficient to protect their interests. • Stockholders of either class of common stock do not have some of the stockholder rights traditionally associated with common stock. Neither Applied Biosystems nor Celera have a separate board of directors to represent solely the interests of either class of common stock as holders of that class. Consequently, there is no board of directors that owes any separate duties to holders of one class of common stock as holders of that class. Our Board of Directors acts in accordance with its good faith business judgment of our best interests, taking into consideration the interests of all common stockholders regardless of class or series, which may be harmful to holders of one class of common stock as holders of that class. Stockholders may not have any remedies for breach of fiduciary duties if any action by directors or officers has a disadvantageous effect on either class of common stock. Stockholders may not have any remedies if any action or decision of our Board of Directors or officers has a disadvantageous effect on Applera-Applied Biosystems stock or Applera-Celera stock compared to the other class of common stock. Cases in Delaware involving tracking stocks have established that decisions by directors or officers involving differing treatment of tracking stocks are judged under the principle known as the “business judgment rule” unless self-interest is shown. - 67 - Table of Contents In addition, principles of Delaware law established in cases involving differing treatment of two classes of common stock or two groups of holders of the same class of common stock provide that a board of directors owes an equal duty to all stockholders regardless of class or series. Absent abuse of discretion, a good faith business decision made by a disinterested and adequately informed Applera Corporation Board of Directors, Board of Directors’ committee, or officer with respect to any matter having different effects on holders of Applera-Applied Biosystems stock and holders of Applera-Celera stock would be a defense to any challenge to the determination made by or on behalf of the holders of either class of common stock. Stock ownership could cause directors and officers to favor one group over the other. As a policy, our Board of Directors periodically monitors the ownership of shares of Applera-Applied Biosystems stock and Applera-Celera stock by our directors and senior officers as well as their option holdings and other benefits so that their interests are not misaligned with the two classes of common stock and with their duty to act in the best interests of us and our stockholders as a whole. However, because the actual stock market value of their interests in Applera-Applied Biosystems stock and Applera-Celera stock could vary significantly with fluctuations in the market price of that stock, it is possible that they could favor one group over the other as a result of their common stock holdings, options and other benefits. The market capitalization of Applied Biosystems is substantially greater than that of Celera, and the market value of Applera-Applied Biosystems stock held by our directors and senior officers is currently significantly higher than the market value of Applera-Celera stock held by them. Numerous potential conflicts of interest exist between the classes of common stock that may be difficult to resolve by our Board of Directors or that our Board of Directors may resolve in a manner that is harmful to holders of one of the classes. • Allocation of corporate opportunities could favor one group over the other. Our Board of Directors may be required to allocate corporate opportunities between Applied Biosystems and Celera. In some cases, our directors could determine that a corporate opportunity, such as a business that we are acquiring or a new business, should be shared by the groups or be allocated to one group over the other. Any decisions could favor one group to the detriment of the other. • Applied Biosystems and Celera may compete with and harm each other. The existence of two separate classes of common stock will not prevent Applied Biosystems and Celera from competing with each other. Any competition between Applied Biosystems and Celera could harm the businesses of either or both of the groups. Under a Board of Directors’ policy, the groups will generally not engage in the principal businesses of the other, except for joint transactions with each other. However, our Chief Executive Officer or Board of Directors will permit indirect competition between the groups, such as one group doing business with a competitor of the other group, based on his or its good faith business judgment that the competition is in our best interests and the best interests of all of our stockholders as a whole. In addition, the groups may compete in a business that is not a principal business of the other group. • Our Board of Directors may pay more or less dividends on group common stock than if that group were a separate company. Subject to the limitations referred to below, our Board of Directors has the authority to declare and pay dividends on - 68 - Table of Contents Applera-Applied Biosystems stock and Applera-Celera stock in any amount and could, in its sole discretion, declare and pay dividends exclusively on Applera-Applied Biosystems stock, exclusively on Applera-Celera stock, or on both, in equal or unequal amounts. Our Board of Directors is not required to consider the amount of dividends previously declared on each class, the respective voting or liquidation rights of each class, or any other factor. The performance of one group may cause our Board of Directors to pay more or less dividends on the common stock relating to the other group than if that other group were a stand-alone company. In addition, Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation impose limitations on the amount of dividends that may be paid on each class of common stock. • Proceeds of mergers or consolidations may be allocated unfavorably. Our Board of Directors will determine how to allocate consideration to be received by holders of our two classes of common stock in connection with a merger or consolidation. The allocation to the holders of each class may differ materially depending on the chosen method of allocation. • Holders of either class of common stock may be harmed by a conversion of group common stock. Our Board of Directors could, in its sole discretion and without stockholder approval, determine to convert shares of Applera-Applied Biosystems stock into shares of Applera-Celera stock, or vice versa, at any time, including when either or both classes of common stock may be considered to be overvalued or undervalued. If our Board of Directors chose to issue Applera-Celera stock in exchange for Applera-Applied Biosystems stock, or vice versa, the conversion would dilute the interests in us of the holders of the class of common stock being issued in the conversion. If our Board of Directors were to choose to issue Applera-Celera stock in exchange for Applera-Applied Biosystems stock, or vice versa, the conversion could give holders of shares of the class of common stock being converted a greater or lesser premium than any premium that was paid or might be paid by a third-party buyer of all or substantially all of the assets of the group whose stock is converted. • Cash proceeds of newly issued Applera-Celera stock in the future could be allocated to Applied Biosystems. If and to the extent Applied Biosystems holds “Celera Designated Shares” at the time of any future sale of Applera-Celera stock, our Board of Directors could allocate some or all of the proceeds of that sale to Applied Biosystems in consideration of a reduction in the number of these shares. Celera Designated Shares are a type of authorized shares of Applera-Celera stock. Any decision could favor one group over the other group. For example, the decision to allocate the proceeds of that sale to Applied Biosystems could adversely affect Celera’s ability to obtain funds to finance its growth strategies. Applied Biosystems does not hold any Celera Designated Shares as of the date of this report. Celera Designated Shares could be issued in the future if our Board of Directors determines that Celera requires additional capital to finance its business and that Applied Biosystems should supply that capital. Our Board of Directors may change its management and allocation policies, without stockholder approval, in a manner that is harmful to either group. Our Board of Directors may modify or rescind our policies with respect to the allocation of corporate overhead, taxes, debt, interest, and other matters, or may adopt additional policies, in its - 69 - Table of Contents sole discretion without stockholder approval. A decision to modify or rescind these policies, or adopt additional policies, could have different effects on holders of Applera-Applied Biosystems stock and holders of Applera-Celera stock or could result in a benefit or harm to one class of stockholders as compared to the other class. Our Board of Directors will make any decision in accordance with its good faith business judgment that the decision is in our best interests and the best interests of all of our stockholders as a whole. Either Applied Biosystems or Celera may finance the other group on terms unfavorable to either group. From time to time, we anticipate that we may transfer cash and other property between groups to finance their business activities. When this occurs, the group providing the financing will be subject to the risks relating to the group receiving the financing. We will account for those transfers in one of the following ways: • as a reallocation of pooled debt or preferred stock; • as a short-term or long-term loan between groups or as a repayment of a previous borrowing; • as an increase or decrease in Celera Designated Shares; or • as a sale of assets between groups. Our Board of Directors has not adopted specific criteria for determining when it will account for the transfer of cash or other property as a reallocation of pooled debt or preferred stock, a loan or repayment, an increase or decrease in Celera Designated Shares, or a sale of assets. These determinations, including the terms of any transactions accounted for as debt, may be harmful to either the group transferring or receiving the cash or other property. Our Board of Directors expects to make these determinations, either in specific instances or by setting generally applicable policies, after considering the financing requirements and objectives of the receiving group, the investment objectives of the transferring group, and the availability, cost, and time associated with alternative financing sources, prevailing interest rates, and general economic conditions. We cannot assure stockholders that any terms that we fix for debt will approximate those that could have been obtained by the borrowing group if it were a stand-alone company. Celera could incur a higher tax liability than if it were a stand-alone taxpayer. Our tax allocation policy provides that some tax benefits that cannot be used by the group generating those benefits but can be used on a consolidated basis are to be transferred, without reimbursement, to the group that can use the benefits. Any tax benefits that are transferred from Celera to Applied Biosystems will not be carried forward to reduce Celera’s future tax liability. As a result of this policy, Celera generated tax benefits of $2.9 million in our 2007 fiscal year, $64.3 million in our 2006 fiscal year, and $51.1 million in our 2005 fiscal year that were used by Applied Biosystems with no reimbursement to Celera. This and future use by Applied Biosystems, without reimbursement, of tax benefits generated by Celera could result in Celera paying a greater portion of the total corporate tax liability over time than would have been the case if Celera were a stand-alone taxpayer. - 70 - Table of Contents Holders of group common stock may receive less consideration upon a sale of assets than if the group were a separate company. Our certificate of incorporation provides that if a disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of either group occurs, we must, subject to some exceptions: • distribute to holders of the class of common stock relating to that group an amount equal to the net proceeds of such disposition; or • convert at a 10% premium the common stock relating to that group into shares of the class of common stock relating to the other group. If the group subject to the disposition were a separate, independent company and its shares were acquired by another person, some of the costs of that disposition, including corporate level taxes, might not be payable in connection with that acquisition. As a result, if the group subject to the disposition were a stand-alone company, stockholders of that group might receive a greater amount than the net proceeds that would be received by those stockholders if the assets of that group were sold and the proceeds distributed to those stockholders. In addition, we cannot assure stockholders that the net proceeds per share of the common stock relating to that group will be equal to or more than the market value per share of that common stock before or after announcement of a disposition. Our capital structure and variable vote per share may discourage acquisitions of a group or a class of common stock. A potential acquirer could acquire control of us by acquiring shares of common stock having a majority of the voting power of all shares of common stock outstanding. This majority could be obtained by acquiring a sufficient number of shares of both classes of common stock or, if one class of common stock has a majority of the voting power, only shares of that class since the relative aggregate voting power of the two classes of common stock fluctuates based on their relative aggregate market values. Currently, Applera-Applied Biosystems stock has a substantial majority of the voting power. As a result, it might be possible for an acquirer to obtain control by purchasing only shares of Applera-Applied Biosystems stock. Decisions by our Board of Directors and officers that affect market values could harm voting and conversion rights. The relative voting power per share of each class of common stock and the number of shares of one class of common stock issuable upon the conversion of the other class of common stock will vary depending upon the relative market values of Applera-Applied Biosystems stock and Applera-Celera stock. The market value of either or both classes of common stock could decrease or be discounted because of market reaction to decisions by our Board of Directors or management that investors perceive as affecting differently one class of common stock compared to the other. These decisions could involve changes to our management and allocation policies, transfers of assets between groups, allocations of corporate opportunities and financing resources between groups, and changes in dividend policies. - 71 - Table of Contents Provisions governing common stock could discourage a change of control and the payment of a premium for stockholders’ shares. Our stockholder rights plan could delay or prevent other parties from seeking to acquire our company, which would prevent stockholders from profiting from an increase in the market value of their shares as a result of a change in control. Similarly, parties who might be interested in acquiring our company might be reluctant to pursue an acquisition, or may be hindered by financial or other obstacles, because of our complex corporate structure. In addition, provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may also deter hostile takeover attempts. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 