Item 1A. Risk Factors Some statements contained in, or incorporated by reference in, this report are forward-looking and are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties. Similarly, the press releases we issue and other public statements we make from time to time may contain language that is forward-looking. These forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as “forecast,” “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “should,” “plan,” “estimate,” and “potential,” among others. The forward-looking statements contained in this report, including statements regarding the pending merger with Invitrogen corporation, are based on our current expectations, and those made at other times will be based on our expectations when the statements are made. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statements will be realized. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a “safe harbor” for forward-looking statements. To comply with the terms of the safe harbor, we note that a variety of factors could cause actual results and experience to differ materially from anticipated results or other expectations expressed in forward-looking statements. We also note that achievement of anticipated results or expectations in forward-looking statements is subject to the possibility that assumptions underlying forward-looking statements will prove to be inaccurate. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance, development, and results of our business include, but are not limited to, those described below. We note that our business could be affected by other factors that we have not disclosed because we think they are immaterial. Also, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that could affect our business but which are not currently known to us. - 32 - Table of Contents Failure to complete our pending merger with Invitrogen will subject us to financial risks and could cause the price of Applied Biosystems stock to decline. On June 11, 2008, we entered into a merger agreement with Invitrogen Corporation and Atom Acquisition, LLC, a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Invitrogen. The proposed merger is subject to review by regulatory agencies in the EU and some other foreign jurisdictions, and we cannot provide assurances as to whether we will obtain the necessary clearances or approvals from these agencies or whether those clearances or approvals will impose any conditions on the company resulting from the merger. Also, we cannot assure our stockholders that the merger agreement will be approved and adopted by our stockholders or that the other conditions to the completion of the merger set forth in the merger agreement will be satisfied. We are subject to a number of other risks associated with the pending merger, including the following: • the current market price of Applied Biosystems stock may reflect a market assumption that the merger will occur, and a failure to complete the merger could result in a decline in the market price of Applied Biosystems stock; • the announcement of the merger and our planning for integration of our business with Invitrogen could: disrupt our business plans and operations; adversely affect our ability to retain key employees; and divert the attention of our management from opportunities that could be beneficial to our business; • the announcement of the merger could adversely affect our relationships with customers, suppliers and other parties; • the occurrence of some events, changes, or other circumstances described in the merger agreement could cause a termination of the merger agreement; • under the merger agreement, we could be required to pay Invitrogen a termination fee of $150 million if the merger agreement is terminated in some circumstance involving an alternative transaction proposal by another company or a change in our board’s recommendation of the Invitrogen merger to our stockholders in a manner that is adverse to Invitrogen; • the benefits we expect our stockholders to realize from the merger may not be realized, including as a result of the difficulties or delays in Invitrogen’s ability to successfully integrate its businesses with our business following the merger; • we expect to incur significant legal, accounting, financial advisory, and other costs, fees, expenses and charges related to the merger; and • The Invitrogen merger agreement contains restrictions on activities that are not in the ordinary course of our business, subject to limited exceptions specified in the merger agreement, and these restrictions could prevent us from pursuing important business opportunities, such as business or technology acquisitions, while the merger is pending. - 33 - Table of Contents Because the market price of Invitrogen’s common stock will fluctuate prior to completion of the Invitrogen merger, we cannot assure our stockholders as to the market value of the shares of Invitrogen common stock that they will receive upon completion of the merger. The market price of Invitrogen common stock at the time of completion of the merger may vary significantly from the price when we signed the merger agreement, the price when the per share merger consideration was determined, or the price when we and Invitrogen conduct our special stockholder meetings to seek approval of the merger. Pursuant to the merger agreement, if the arithmetic average of the volume-weighted average price of Invitrogen’s common stock on each trading day during the 20 consecutive trading days immediately preceding the third business day prior to the effective time of the merger, or the 20-day VWAP, is less than $46.00 per share, then holders of Applied Biosystems stock who receive all or a portion of their consideration in shares of Invitrogen stock will also receive an additional cash amount of up to $2.31 per share of Invitrogen common stock which they receive in the merger. If, however, the 20-day VWAP is less than $43.69 per share, there will not be any cash paid in addition to the amount described above. Because the date when the merger is completed may be later than the date of the special meetings, our stockholders may not know the exact value of the Invitrogen common stock that will be issued in the merger at the time they vote on the merger proposal. As a result, if the market price of Invitrogen common stock at the completion of the merger is less than $43.69, the value of the per share merger consideration received by our stockholders who receive a portion of the merger consideration in Invitrogen common stock will be lower than $38.00, the value of the per share merger consideration for stockholders, if any, who receive only cash. Rapidly changing technology in life sciences could make our product line obsolete unless we continue to develop and manufacture new and improved products and services, and pursue new market opportunities. A significant portion of the net revenues for us each year is derived from products and services that did not exist in the prior year. We sell our products in several industries that are characterized by rapid and significant technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements, and evolving industry standards. Our future success depends on our ability to continually improve our current products and services, develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products and services that address the evolving needs of its customers, and pursue new market opportunities that develop as a result of technological and scientific advances in life sciences. These new market opportunities may be outside the scope of our proven expertise or in areas which have unproven market demand, and the utility and value of new products and services developed by us may not be accepted in the markets served by the new products. This includes, for example, new products under development for the clinical diagnostics market, which are described in the immediately following paragraph. The inability to gain market acceptance of new products and services could harm our future operating results. Our future success also depends on our ability to manufacture these improved and new products to meet customer demand in a timely and cost-effective manner, including our ability to resolve in a timely manner manufacturing issues that may arise from time to time as we commence production of these complex products. Unanticipated difficulties or delays in replacing existing products and services with new products and services or in manufacturing improved or new products in sufficient quantities to meet customer demand could diminish future demand for our products and services and our future operating results. - 34 - Table of Contents We may not successfully develop instruments for use in the clinical diagnostics market, and even if we do develop these products, they may not receive needed regulatory clearances or approvals and we may not be able to manufacture these products in accordance with regulatory requirements. We intend to commit significant resources to the development of instruments for use in the clinical diagnostics market. Although we have experience in developing and commercializing instrumentation for the life science research market, we have only limited prior experience with products of any type for use in the regulated clinical diagnostics market. This is an emerging business area for us, and we may not have or be able to obtain the necessary expertise to successfully develop instruments for use in this market. In addition, in the U.S. and other countries, instruments cannot be marketed for clinical diagnostics use until they first receive regulatory clearance or approval. The regulatory review and clearance or approval process can be time consuming and require substantial expense and may not be successful. Even if we obtain regulatory clearance or approval for an instrument for use in the clinical diagnostics market, the manufacture, sale, and distribution of that product may be subject to ongoing regulatory requirements. The inability to comply with these requirements could cause us to suspend the manufacture or sale of these products and delay or prevent us from generating revenues from the sale of these products. We rely on other companies for the manufacture of some of our products and also for the supply of some components of the products we manufacture on our own. Although we have contracts with most of these manufacturers and suppliers, their operations could be disrupted. These disruptions could be caused by conditions unrelated to our business or operations, including the bankruptcy of the manufacturer or supplier. Although we have our own manufacturing facilities, and generally believe we might be able to manufacture some of the products and components currently sourced from other companies, we also believe that it could take considerable time and resources for us to establish the capability to do so. Accordingly, if these other manufacturers or suppliers are unable or fail to fulfill their obligations to us, we might not be able to satisfy customer demand in a timely manner, and our business could be harmed. A significant portion of our sales depends on customers’ capital spending policies that may be subject to significant and unexpected decreases. A significant portion of our instrument product sales are capital purchases by our customers. Our customers include pharmaceutical, environmental, research, biotechnology, and chemical companies, and the capital spending policies of these companies can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. These policies are based on a wide variety of factors, including the resources available to make purchases, the spending priorities among various types of research equipment, and policies regarding capital expenditures during recessionary periods. Any decrease in capital spending or change in spending policies of these companies could significantly reduce the demand for our products. - 35 - Table of Contents A substantial portion of our sales is to customers at universities or research laboratories whose funding is dependent on both the amount and timing of funding from government sources. As a result, the timing and amount of revenues from these sources may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast. Research funding for life science research has increased more slowly during the past several years compared to previous years and has declined in some countries, and some grants have been frozen for extended periods or otherwise become unavailable to various institutions, sometimes without advance notice. Budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations to government agencies that fund research and development activities. If government funding necessary to purchase our products were to become unavailable to researchers for any extended period of time, or if overall research funding were to decrease, our business could be harmed. We may become involved in legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights. The intellectual property rights of biotechnology companies, including us, involve complex factual, scientific, and legal questions. Even though we may believe that we have a valid patent on a particular technology, other companies have from time to time taken, and may in the future take, actions that we believe violate our patent rights. Although we have licensing programs to provide industry access to some of our patent rights, other companies have in the past refused to participate in these licensing programs and companies may refuse to participate in them in the future, resulting in a loss of potential licensing revenue. Legal actions to enforce these patent rights can be expensive and may involve the diversion of significant management time. Our enforcement actions may not be successful, and furthermore they could give rise to legal claims against us and could result in the invalidation of some of our intellectual property rights or legal determination that they are not enforceable. Also, other companies may seek to invalidate our intellectual property rights through other proceedings, such as by challenging the validity and scope of a patent with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, or foreign patent offices. For example, U.S. Patent No. 6,814,934, which relates to instruments for real-time PCR detection, is the subject of a reexamination proceeding in the USPTO and EP 872562, the European counterpart of the ’934 patent, is the subject of an opposition proceeding in the European Patent Office. These proceedings, which have resulted from requests made by other companies to these patent authorities, could result in amendments to or rejection of the patents. We are currently, and could in the future be, subject to lawsuits, arbitrations, investigations, and other legal actions with private parties and governmental entities, particularly involving claims for infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights, and we may need to obtain licenses to intellectual property from others. We believe that we have meritorious defenses against the claims currently asserted against us and intend to defend them vigorously. However, the outcome of legal actions is inherently uncertain, and we cannot be sure that we will prevail in any of these actions. An adverse determination in some of our current legal actions, particularly the cases described below, could harm our business and financial condition. Our products are based on complex, rapidly developing technologies. These products could be developed without knowledge of previously filed patent applications that mature into - 36 - Table of Contents patents that cover some aspect of these technologies. In addition, because patent litigation is complex and the outcome inherently uncertain, our belief that our products do not infringe valid and enforceable patents owned by others could be successfully challenged. We have from time to time been notified that we may be infringing patents and other intellectual property rights of others. Also, in the course of our business, we may from time to time have access to confidential or proprietary information of others, and they could bring a claim against us asserting that we had misappropriated their technologies, which though not patented are protected as trade secrets, and had improperly incorporated those technologies into our products. Due to these factors, there remains a constant risk of intellectual property litigation and other legal actions affecting us, which could include antitrust claims. We have been made a party to litigation and have been subject to other legal actions regarding intellectual property matters, which have included claims of violations of antitrust laws. These actions currently include the legal proceedings described in the following paragraph, some of which, if determined adversely, could harm our business and financial condition. To avoid or settle legal claims, it may be necessary or desirable in the future to obtain licenses relating to one or more products or relating to current or future technologies, and we may not be able to obtain these licenses or other rights on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In some situations settlement of claims may require an agreement to cease allegedly infringing activities. We are involved in several legal actions that could affect our intellectual property rights and our products and services, including the following: • Enzo Biochem, Inc., Enzo Life Sciences, Inc., and Yale University have filed a lawsuit against us alleging that we are infringing six patents due to the sale of sequencing reagent kits, TaqMan® genotyping and gene expression assays, and the gene expression microarrays used with our Expression Array System. • Michigan Diagnostics LLC has filed claims against us seeking a declaratory judgment of non-infringement, invalidity, and unenforceability of approximately 60 patents related to chemiluminescent products and methods, and asserting antitrust claims based on our alleged misconduct in our alleged enforcement of those patents. • Molecular Diagnostics Laboratories has filed a class action complaint against us, Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., and Roche Molecular Systems, Inc. alleging anticompetitive conduct in connection with the sale of Taq DNA polymerase. The anticompetitive conduct is alleged to arise from the prosecution and enforcement of U.S. Patent No 4,889,818. This patent is assigned to Roche Molecular Systems, with whom we have a commercial relationship covering, among other things, this patent and the sale of Taq DNA polymerase. • In response to claims made by us against Solexa, Inc., Illumina, Inc., and a former chief patent counsel to our company, Solexa has filed counterclaims against us alleging that we infringe U.S. Patent Nos. 5,750,341, 5,969,119, 6,306,597 based on our making, using, selling, and offering for sale DNA sequencing products. • In response to a claim that we, MDS, Inc., and our Applied Biosystems/MDS Analytical Technologies Instruments joint venture with MDS filed against Thermo Electron Corporation, Thermo Electron has filed a counterclaim seeking a declaratory judgment that our U.S. Patent No. 4,963,736 is invalid. After the filing of this action - 37 - Table of Contents against Thermo Electron, its subsidiary Thermo Finnigan LLC filed a lawsuit against us alleging that we are infringing one of its patents as a result of, for example, our commercialization of the ABI PRISM® 3700 Genetic Analyzer. Thermo Finnigan subsequently filed a second lawsuit against us, MDS, and the Applied Biosystems/MDS Analytical Technologies Instruments joint venture alleging that we and the other defendants have infringed one of Thermo Finnigan’s patents as a result of, for example, our commercialization of the API 5000™ LC/MS/MS system. • Fluidigm Corporation and Corbett Life Science, Corbett Robotics Inc., and Corbett Research Pty Ltd. have filed complaints against us seeking declaratory judgments of non-infringement and invalidity of our U.S. Patent No. 6,814,934, which relates to instruments for real-time PCR detection. The complaint filed by the Corbett parties also seeks a declaratory judgment that this patent is unenforceable. These cases are described in further detail below in Item 3 of this report under the heading “Legal Proceedings–Commercial Litigation.” The cost of litigation and the amount of management time associated with these cases is expected to be significant. These matters might not be resolved favorably. If they are not resolved favorably, we could be enjoined from selling the products or services in question or other products or services as a result, and monetary or other damages could be assessed against us. These outcomes could harm our business or financial condition. Some of the intellectual property that is important to our business is owned by other companies or institutions and licensed to us, and legal actions against them could harm our business. Even if we are not a party to these legal actions, an adverse outcome could harm our business because it might prevent these other companies or institutions from continuing to license intellectual property that we may need for our business. Furthermore, an adverse outcome could result in infringement or other legal actions being brought directly against us. For example, on November 8, 2006, a patent interference proceeding was declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office between Enzo Diagnostics, Inc. and the California Institute of Technology, or Caltech, concerning a patent application owned by Enzo and U.S. Patent No. 5,821,058, owned by Caltech. The ’058 patent is exclusively licensed to us and claims methods for DNA sequencing. The Patent Office has declared the interference in order to resolve competing claims to inventorship of the subject matter of the interference. Although we are not a party to this proceeding, as exclusive licensee we are involved in the prosecution of the interference, in cooperation with Caltech, and we are funding a substantial portion of the cost of the prosecution. If Enzo prevails in the interference, the Patent Office could revoke the claims of the ’058 patent from Caltech and award substantially similar claims to Enzo, which Enzo might then assert against our DNA sequencing products and possibly other products. Since our business is dependent on foreign sales, fluctuating currencies will make revenues and operating results more volatile. Approximately 57% of our net revenues for our 2008 fiscal year were derived from sales to customers outside of the U.S. The majority of these sales were based on the relevant customer’s local currency. A significant portion of our related costs are based on the U.S. dollar. As a result, our reported and anticipated operating results and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to material changes in foreign currency exchange rates that are beyond our control. - 38 - Table of Contents Our future growth depends in part on our ability to acquire complementary technologies through acquisitions, investments, or other strategic relationships or alliances, which may absorb significant resources, may be unsuccessful, and could dilute holders of Applied Biosystems stock. Acquisitions, investments and other strategic relationships and alliances, if pursued, may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, and expenses that could have a material effect on our financial condition and operating results. If we pursue these types of transactions, it may be difficult for us to complete these transactions quickly and to integrate these acquired operations efficiently into our current business operations. Potential technological advances resulting from the integration of technologies may not be achieved as successfully or rapidly as anticipated, if at all. Any acquisitions, investments or other strategic relationships and alliances by us may ultimately harm our business and financial condition. In addition, future acquisitions may not be as successful as we originally anticipated and may result in impairment charges. We have incurred these charges in recent years in relation to acquisitions. For example, we have incurred charges for impairment of goodwill, intangibles and other assets and other charges of $14.9 million related to our acquisition of Boston Probes, Inc. In addition, acquisitions and other transactions may involve the issuance of a substantial amount of Applied Biosystems stock without the approval of our stockholders. Any issuances of this nature could be dilutive to our stockholders. Our business, particularly the development and marketing of information-based products and services, depends on the continuous, effective, reliable, and secure operation of our computer hardware, software, and Internet applications and related tools and functions. Our business requires manipulating and analyzing large amounts of data, and communicating the results of the analysis to our internal research personnel and to our customers via the Internet. Also, we rely on a global enterprise software system to operate and manage our business. Our business therefore depends on the continuous, effective, reliable, and secure operation of our computer hardware, software, networks, Internet servers, and related infrastructure. To the extent that our hardware or software malfunctions or access to our data by internal research personnel or customers through the Internet is interrupted, our business could suffer. Our computer and communications hardware is protected through physical and software safeguards. However, it is still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, earthquakes, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins, software viruses, and similar events. In addition, our online products and services are complex and sophisticated, and as such, could contain data, design, or software errors that could be difficult to detect and correct. Software defects could be found in current or future products. If we fail to maintain and further develop the necessary computer capacity and data to support our computational needs and our customers’ access to information-based product and service offerings, we could experience a loss of or delay in revenues or market acceptance. In addition, any sustained disruption in Internet access provided by other companies could harm our business. - 39 - Table of Contents Our operations involve the use, manufacture, sale, and distribution of hazardous materials, and the mishandling of these hazardous materials could result in substantial liabilities and harm to our business. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of potentially hazardous materials, including biological materials, chemicals, and various radioactive compounds. Also, some of our products are hazardous materials or include hazardous materials. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental or other contamination or injury from these materials, and we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. Under some laws and regulations, a party can be subject to “strict liability” for damages caused by some hazardous materials, which means that a party can be liable without regard to fault or negligence. In addition, we are subject to federal, state, local, and foreign laws, regulations, and permits governing the use, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous materials and specified waste products, as well as the shipment and labeling of materials and products containing hazardous materials. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be subject to substantial fine or penalty, payment of remediation costs, loss of permits, and/or other adverse governmental action. Any of these events could harm our business and financial condition. Earthquakes could disrupt operations in California. Our management and principal operations are located in the San Francisco Bay area, a region near major California earthquake faults. The ultimate impact of earthquakes on our business, our significant suppliers, and the general infrastructure is unknown, but our business and operating results could be harmed if a major earthquake occurs. The price of Applied Biosystems stock may be volatile. The market price of Applied Biosystems stock has in the past been, and may in the future continue to be, volatile due to the risks and uncertainties described in this risk factors section of this report, as well as other factors that may have affected or may in the future affect the market price, such as: • conditions and publicity regarding the genomics, biotechnology, pharmaceutical, or life sciences industries generally; • price and volume fluctuations in the stock market at large which do not relate to our operating performance; and • comments by securities analysts or government officials, including with regard to the viability or profitability of the biotechnology sector generally or with regard to intellectual property rights of life science companies, or our ability to meet market expectations. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies or the industries in which they compete. In addition, our ability to achieve previously-announced financial targets is subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors affecting our business and the genomics, biotechnology, pharmaceutical, and life sciences industries generally, many of which are beyond our control. These factors may cause actual results to differ materially. We describe a number of - 40 - Table of Contents these factors throughout this document, including in these risk factors. We cannot assure you that we will meet these targets. If we are not able to meet these targets, it could harm the market price of Applied Biosystems stock. Our stockholder rights plan could discourage a change of control and the payment of a premium for stockholders’ shares. Our stockholder rights plan could delay or prevent other parties from seeking to acquire our company, which would prevent stockholders from profiting from an increase in the market value of their shares as a result of a change in control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 