Item 1A. Risk Factors Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the "EESA") which, among other measures, authorizes Treasury to purchase from financial institutions and their holding companies up to $700 billion in mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities and certain other financial instruments, including debt and equity securities issued by financial institutions and their holding companies, under a troubled asset relief program, or "TARP." The purpose of TARP is to restore confidence and stability to the U.S. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. Under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, Treasury is purchasing equity securities from participating institutions. 12 Table of Contents EESA also increased federal deposit insurance on most deposit accounts from $100,000 to $250,000. This increase is in place until the end of 2009 and is not covered by deposit insurance premiums paid by the banking industry. EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the U.S. Congress, Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. On October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced the establishment of a temporary liquidity guarantee program to provide full deposit insurance for all non-interest bearing transaction accounts and guarantees of certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by FDIC-insured institutions and their holding companies. Insured institutions were automatically covered by this program from October 14, 2008 until December 5, 2008, unless they opted out prior to that date. Under the program, the FDIC will guarantee timely payment of newly issued senior unsecured debt issued on or before June 30, 2009. The debt includes all newly issued unsecured senor debt including promissory notes, commercial paper and inter-bank funding. The aggregate coverage for an institution may not exceed 125% of its debt outstanding on September 30, 2008 that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009, or, for certain insured institutions, 2% of liabilities as of September 30, 2008. The guarantee will extend to June 30, 2012 even if the maturity of the debt is after that date. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. banking system. EESA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business. We are particularly exposed to downturns in the U. S. housing market. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, may have a negative impact on the credit performance of mortgage, consumer, commercial and construction loan portfolios resulting in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment may negatively impact the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Competition among depository institutions for deposits has increased significantly. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits or borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We do not expect that the difficult market conditions will improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these 13 Table of Contents difficult market conditions on us and others in the industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: •We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. •Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. •We also may be required to pay even higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums than the recently increased level, because financial institution failures resulting from the depressed market conditions have depleted and may continue to deplete the deposit insurance fund and reduce its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. •Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or the Federal Home Loan Bank on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events. •We may experience a prolonged decrease in dividend income from our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock. •We may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The market value of our securities portfolio may continue to be impacted by the level of interest rates and the credit quality and strength of the underlying issuers. If a decline in market value of a security is determined to be other than temporary, under generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to write these securities down to their estimated fair value. As of December 31, 2008, we owned single issue and pooled trust preferred securities and private label collateralized mortgage obligations whose aggregate historical cost basis is greater than their estimated fair value (see note 4 of the consolidated financial statements). We have reviewed these securities and determined that the decreases in estimated fair value are temporary. We perform an ongoing analysis of these securities utilizing both readily available market data and third party analytical models. Future changes in interest rates or the credit quality and strength of the underlying issuers may reduce the market value of these and other securities. If such decline is determined to be other than temporary, we will write them down through a charge to earnings to their then current fair value. The Company's banking subsidiary, VIST Bank, is a member of the FHLB and is required to purchase and maintain stock in the FHLB in an amount equal to the greater of 1% of its aggregate unpaid residential mortgage loans, home purchase contracts or similar obligations at the beginning of each year or 5% of its outstanding advances from the FHLB. At December 31, 2008, the Bank had $5.7 million in stock of the FHLB which was in compliance with this requirement. These equity securities are "restricted" in that they can only be sold back to the respective institutions or another member institution at par. Therefore, they are less liquid than other tradable equity securities, their fair value is equal to amortized cost, and no impairment write-downs have been recorded on these securities during 2008, 2007, or 2006. At December 31, 2008, the Bank had $53.4 million in short-term FHLB advances outstanding and $50.0 million in longer-term FHLB advances outstanding. 14 Table of Contents The FHLB of Pittsburgh announced in December 2008 that it voluntarily suspended the payment of dividends and the repurchase of excess capital stock from member banks. The FHLB cited a significant reduction in the level of core earnings resulting from lower short-term interest rates, the increased cost of maintaining liquidity and constrained access to the debt markets at attractive rates and maturities as the main reasons for the decision to suspend dividends and the repurchase excess capital stock. The FHLB last paid a dividend in the third quarter of 2008. Accounting guidance indicates that an investor in FHLB Pittsburgh capital stock should recognize impairment if it concludes that it is not probable that it will ultimately recover the par value of its shares. The decision of whether impairment exists is a matter of judgment that should reflect the investor's view of FHLB Pittsburgh's long-term performance, which includes factors such as its operating performance, the severity and duration of declines in the market value of its net assets related to its capital stock amount, its commitment to make payments required by law or regulation and the level of such payments in relation to its operating performance, the impact of legislation and regulatory changes on FHLB Pittsburgh, and accordingly, on the members of FHLB Pittsburgh and its liquidity and funding position. After evaluating all of these considerations, the Company believes the par value of its shares will be recovered. Future evaluations of the above mentioned factors could result in the Company recognizing an impairment charge. Changes in interest rates could reduce our income, cash flows and asset values. Our income and cash flows and the value of our assets depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates we earn on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates we pay on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence not only the interest we receive on our loans and investment securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings but will also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits and the value of our investment portfolio. If the rate of interest we pay on our deposits and other borrowings increases more or decreases less than the rate of interest we earn on our loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could be adversely affected. Our earnings also could be adversely affected if the rates on our loans and other investments fall more quickly than those on our deposits and other borrowings. Our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb actual losses or if we are required to increase our allowance. Despite our underwriting criteria, we may experience loan delinquencies and losses. In order to absorb losses associated with nonperforming loans, we maintain an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions, and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Determination of the allowance inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. At any time there are likely to be loans in our portfolio that will result in losses but that have not been identified as nonperforming or potential problem credits. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify deteriorating credits before they become nonperforming assets or that we will be able to limit losses on those loans that are identified. We may be required to increase our allowance for loan losses for any of several reasons. State and federal regulators, in reviewing our loan portfolio as part of a regulatory examination, may request that we increase our allowance for loan losses. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in our allowance. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed our allowance for loan losses, we will need additional increases in our 15 Table of Contents allowance for loan losses. Any increases in our allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in our net income and, possibly, our capital, and may materially affect our results of operations in the period in which the allowance is increased. Competition may decrease our growth or profits. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors, including commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, credit unions, consumer finance companies, factoring companies, leasing companies, insurance companies and money market mutual funds. There is very strong competition among financial services providers in our principal service area. Our competitors may have greater resources, higher lending limits or larger branch systems than we do. Accordingly, they may be able to offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. In addition, some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on federally insured financial institutions. As a result, those non-bank competitors may be able to access funding and provide various services more easily or at less cost than we can, adversely affecting our ability to compete effectively. We may be adversely affected by government regulation. The banking industry is heavily regulated. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect the federal deposit insurance funds and depositors, not shareholders. Changes in the laws, regulations, and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may increase our costs of doing business or otherwise adversely affect us and create competitive advantages for others. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, and we cannot predict the ultimate effect of these changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition. We rely on our management and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them may adversely affect our operations. We are and will continue to be dependent upon the services of our executive management team. In addition, we will continue to depend on our ability to retain and recruit key commercial loan officers. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel or commercial loan officers could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Environmental liability associated with lending activities could result in losses. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing our loans. If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, we could be liable to governmental entities or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially limit use of properties we acquire through foreclosure, reduce their value or limit our ability to sell them in the event of a default on the loans they secure. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. 16 Table of Contents Failure to implement new technologies in our operations may adversely affect our growth or profits. The market for financial services, including banking services and consumer finance services, is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in telecommunications, data processing, computers, automation, Internet-based banking and telebanking. Our ability to compete successfully in our markets may depend on the extent to which we are able to exploit such technological changes. However, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to properly or timely anticipate or implement such technologies or properly train our staff to use such technologies. Any failure to adapt to new technologies could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, commonly referred to as the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by law and federal banking regulation. Our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders largely depends on our receipt of dividends from VIST Bank. The amount of dividends that VIST Bank may pay to us is limited by federal laws and regulations. We also may decide to limit the payment of dividends even when we have the legal ability to pay them in order to retain earnings for use in our business. Federal and state banking laws, our articles of incorporation and our by-laws may have an anti-takeover effect. Federal law imposes restrictions, including regulatory approval requirements, on persons seeking to acquire control over us. Pennsylvania law also has provisions that may have an anti-takeover effect. In addition, our articles of incorporation and bylaws permit our board of directors to issue, without shareholder approval, preferred stock and additional shares of common stock that could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of existing common shareholders. These provisions may serve to entrench management or discourage a takeover attempt that shareholders consider to be in their best interest or in which they would receive a substantial premium over the current market price. We plan to continue to grow rapidly and there are risks associated with rapid growth. We intend to continue to expand our business and operations to increase deposits and loans. Continued growth may present operating and other problems that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth may place a strain on our administrative and operational, personnel, and financial resources and increase demands on our systems and controls. Our ability to manage growth successfully will depend on our ability to attract qualified personnel and maintain cost controls and asset quality while attracting additional loans and deposits on favorable terms, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as economic conditions and interest rate trends. If we grow too quickly and are not able to attract qualified personnel, control costs and maintain asset quality, this continued rapid growth could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Our legal lending limits are relatively low and restrict our ability to compete for larger customers. At December 31, 2008, our lending limit per borrower was approximately $14.5 million, or approximately 12% of our capital. Accordingly, the size of loans that we can offer to potential borrowers (without participation by other lenders) is less than the size of loans that many of our competitors with larger capitalization are able to offer. Our legal lending limit also impacts the 17 Table of Contents efficiency of our lending operation because it tends to lower our average loan size, which means we have to generate a higher number of transactions to achieve the same portfolio volume. We may engage in loan participations with other banks for loans in excess of our legal lending limits. However, there can be no assurance that such participations will be available at all or on terms which are favorable to us and to our customers. If we are unable to identify and acquire other financial institutions and successfully integrate their acquired businesses, our business and earnings may be negatively affected. Acquisition of other financial institutions is a component of our growth strategy. The market for acquisitions remains highly competitive, and we may be unable to find acquisition candidates in the future that fit our acquisition and growth strategy. Acquisitions of financial institutions involve operational risks and uncertainties, and acquired companies may have unforeseen liabilities, exposure to asset quality problems, key employee and customer retention problems and other problems that could negatively affect our organization. We may not be able to complete future acquisitions and, if completed, we may not be able to successfully integrate the operations, management, products and services of the entities that we acquire and eliminate redundancies. The integration process may also require significant time and attention from our management that they would otherwise direct at servicing existing business and developing new business. Our failure to successfully integrate the entities we acquire into our existing operations may increase our operating costs significantly and adversely affect our business and earnings. The market price for our common stock may be volatile. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated, ranging between $18.43 and $7.73 per share during the 12 months ended December 31, 2008. The overall market and the price of our common stock may continue to be volatile. There may be a significant impact on the market price for our common stock due to, among other things, developments in our business, variations in our anticipated or actual operating results, changes in investors' or analysts' perceptions of the risks and conditions of our business and the size of the public float of our common stock. The average daily trading volume for our common stock as reported on NASDAQ was 2,984 shares during the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, with daily volume ranging from a low of zero shares to a high of 85,700 shares. There can be no assurance that a more active or consistent trading market in our common stock will develop. As a result, relatively small trades could have a significant impact on the price of our common stock. Market conditions may adversely affect our fee based investment and insurance business. The revenues of our fee based insurance business are derived primarily from commissions from the sale of insurance policies, which commissions are generally calculated as a percentage of the policy premium. These insurance policy commissions can fluctuate as insurance carriers from time to time increase or decrease the premiums on the insurance products we sell. Similarly, we receive fee based revenues from commissions from the sale of securities and investment advisory fees. In the event of decreased stock market activity, the volume of trading facilitated by VIST Capital Management, LLC will in all likelihood decrease resulting in decreased commission revenue on purchases and sales of securities. In addition, investment advisory fees, which are generally based on a percentage of the total value of an investment portfolio, will decrease in the event of decreases in the values of the investment portfolios, for example, as a result of overall market declines. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 18 Table of Contents 