Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The factors listed below represent our principal risks. These factors may or may not occur and we are not in a position to express a view on the likelihood of any such factor occurring. Other factors may exist that we do not consider significant based on information that is currently available or that we are not currently able to anticipate. General economic conditions and the cyclical nature of our suppliers’ and customers’ businesses could adversely affect our sales, profitability, operating results and cash flows during economic downturns. General economic conditions and business conditions of our suppliers’ and customers’ industries affect the supply and demand for our products. The businesses of most of our suppliers and customers can be cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in general economic conditions. In addition, political instability may lead to financial and economic instability, which could lead to deterioration in general global economic conditions. Continued downturns in the businesses that use our products, including North American automobile manufacturers, would adversely affect our sales. Currently, the North American automobile industry is characterized by significant overcapacity, fierce competition and declining sales. Continued downturns in general economic conditions may result in diminished product demand, excess manufacturing capacity and lower profit margins and could adversely affect our sales, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Additionally, the loss of several significant customers could adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. We are subject to a number of restrictive covenants in our credit facilities; breaches of these covenants are events of default under our credit facilities and cause the acceleration of the majority of debt beyond our ability to pay. Our credit facilities contain a number of restrictive covenants, as described in more detail in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. These covenants require us to, among other matters, restrict the incurrence of additional indebtedness, satisfy certain ratios and net worth levels, limit the amount of our capital expenditures and dividends, and limit the sale of assets and merger transactions. If breached, these restrictive covenants would force us to negotiate with our bankers to waive the covenants and, if denied, could significantly impact our ability to operate our business. In addition, those covenants could limit our flexibility in making investments and acquisitions. Access to funding through capital markets is an important part of our business plan, and if we are unable to maintain such access, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our ability to invest in our businesses, make strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing debt obligations requires access to the capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support short-term borrowing needs. The capital markets are currently experiencing a period of dislocation and instability as evidenced by a lack of liquidity in the debt capital markets, significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk in the broadly syndicated credit market and the failure of certain major financial institutions. Despite actions of the U.S. federal government, these events have contributed to worsening general economic conditions that are materially and adversely impacting the broader financial and credit markets and reducing the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole. Reflecting the concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases ceased to provide, funding to borrowers. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to obtain and manage our liquidity. Price increases in raw materials and energy costs could adversely affect operating results and financial condition. In 2008, raw material costs represented 74% of total costs of sales. We purchase various raw material resins derived from crude oil or natural gas to produce our products. The cost of these resins has been highly volatile in the last few years with significant price increases. This volatility of resin costs is expected to continue and may be affected by a number of factors including the base cost of oil and natural gas, political instability or hostilities in oil-producing countries, vendor consolidations, exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies and changes in supply and demand. The direction and degree of future resin cost changes and our ability to manage such changes is uncertain. As a result, quick changes is prices and ultimate higher crude oil and natural gas costs could lead to declining margins, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. 5 Table of Contents We may incur significant charges or be adversely impacted by the closure of all or part of a manufacturing facility. We periodically assess the cost structure of our manufacturing facilities to manufacture and sell our products in the most efficient manner. Based on our assessments, we may make capital investments to move, discontinue manufacturing capabilities, or close all or part of a manufacturing facility. These changes could result in significant future charges or disruptions in our operations, and we may not achieve the expected benefits from these investments which could result in an adverse impact on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive marketplace, which could adversely affect our sales and financial condition. We compete on the basis of quality, price, product availability and security of supply, product development and customer service. Some competitors are larger than we are in certain markets and may have greater financial resources that allow them to be better positioned to withstand changes in our industry. Our competitors may introduce new products based on alternative technologies that may be more competitive causing us to lose customers which would result in a decline in our sales volume and earnings. Our customers demand high quality and low cost products and services. The cost and availability of energy and strategic raw materials may continue to deteriorate domestically while improving in the international market. Given the global marketplace in which we compete, competition could cause us to lose market share, exit certain lines of business, increase expenditures or reduce pricing, each of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We have a significant amount of goodwill, other intangibles, and fixed assets and any future asset impairment charges could adversely impact our results of operations. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded $254 million of goodwill, other intangible and fixed asset impairments in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (“SFAS 142”) and SFAS 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets (“SFAS 144”). In addition to our annual goodwill impairment test, the occurrence of a potential indicator of impairment, such as a significant adverse change in business climate, unanticipated competition, loss of key personnel, or a more-likely-than-not expectation that an asset or reporting unit may be sold or disposed of, would require us to perform future impairment analyses as required under SFAS 142 and SFAS 144. These types of events and the resulting analysis could result in additional impairments of goodwill, other intangibles and fixed assets which could adversely impact our results of operations. We are in the process of implementing a new Oracle/Business Process Improvement enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) computer system which could cause substantial business interruption that could adversely impact our operating results. We are implementing a new ERP system and investing significant financial and personnel resources into this project. However, there is no assurance that the design will meet our current and future business needs or that it will operate as designed. We are heavily dependent on such computer systems, and any significant failure or delay in the system implementation, if encountered, would cause a substantial interruption to our business and additional expense which could result in an adverse impact on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. We may encounter difficulties in integrating businesses we have acquired, and therefore we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. In the past several years, we have made strategic acquisitions intended to complement or expand our business, and may continue to do so in the future. The success of these transactions will depend on our ability to integrate assets and personnel acquired in these transactions. We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations, and in managing strategic investments. Furthermore, we may not realize the degree or timing of benefits we anticipated when we first enter into a transaction. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our foreign operations subject us to economic risk as our results of operations may be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations and changes in local government regulations and policies. We sell, manufacture and purchase products in foreign markets as well as hold assets and liabilities in these jurisdictions. Changes in the relative value of foreign currencies to U.S. dollars to which we are exposed, specifically the Euro, Canadian dollar and Mexican peso, occur from time to time and could have an adverse impact on our operating results and the book value of our net assets within these jurisdictions. We are part of an environmental investigation initiated by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection and the USEPA in 2003, and if our liability is materially different from the amount accrued, it could impact our results of operations. We operate under various laws and regulations governing employee safety and the quantities of specified substances that may be emitted into the air, discharged into waterways, or otherwise disposed of on and off our properties. In September 2003, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection issued a directive and the United States Environmental Protection 6 Table of Contents Agency (“USEPA”) initiated an investigation related to over 70 companies, including one of our subsidiaries, regarding the Lower Passaic River. The subsidiary subsequently agreed to participate in a group of over 40 companies in funding an environmental study by the USEPA to determine the extent and source of contamination at this site. In 2006, the USEPA asked the group to assume the responsibility for completing the study. As of November 1, 2008, we had $0.5 million accrued related to our share of the funding and related legal expenses of the study. We expect the group’s commitment to continue over the next five years, the expected timeframe of the study. Due to uncertainties inherent in this matter, we are unable to estimate our potential exposure, including possible remediation or other environmental responsibilities that may result from this matter which is not expected to occur for a number of years. These uncertainties primarily include the completion and outcome of the environmental study and the percentage of contamination attributable to the subsidiary and other parties. It is possible that our ultimate liability resulting from this issue could materially differ from the November 1, 2008 accrual balance. In the event of one or more adverse determinations related to this issue, the impact on our results of operations could be material to any specific period. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 