ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSIN EVALUATING THE COMPANY, CAREFUL CONSIDERATION SHOULD BE GIVEN TO THE RISK FACTORS SET FORTH BELOW, AS WELL AS THE OTHER INFORMATION SET FORTH IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K. ALTHOUGH THESE RISK FACTORS ARE MANY, THESE FACTORS SHOULD NOT BE REGARDED AS CONSTITUTING THE ONLY RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESSES. EACH OF THESE RISK FACTORS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, OPERATING RESULTS, CASH FLOWS AND/OR FINANCIAL CONDITION. IN ADDITION TO THE FOLLOWING DISCLOSURES, PLEASE REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT INCLUDING THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE RELATED NOTES. UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED, ALL RISK FACTORS LISTED BELOW SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ATTRIBUTABLE TO ALL OUR OPERATIONS INCLUDING ALL OPERATIONS CLASSIFIED AS DISCONTINUED. Recessions, adverse market conditions or downturns in the end markets served by the Company may negatively impact the Company's sales, profitability, operating results and cash flows. The Company's sales, profitability, operating results and cash flows may be negatively impacted in the future due to changes in general economic conditions, recessions or adverse conditions. Continued uncertainty regarding the recovery of the global economy, especially in North America, including continued low levels of job recovery and business and consumer spending, have resulted in challenges to the Company's business and the end markets the Company serves, including the transportation, building and construction and recreation and leisure end markets, which represented approximately 20%, 17%, and 8%, respectively of the Company's sales during the year ended October 29, 2011. If economic conditions worsen, the Company could experience potential declines in revenues, profitability and cash flow due to reduced orders, payment delays, supply chain disruptions or other factors caused by economic challenges faced by customers, prospective customers and suppliers. The Company's credit facility and senior notes contain a number of restrictive covenants; breaches of these covenants are events of default and could cause the acceleration of debt beyond the Company's ability to fund such debt.The Company's credit facility and senior notes contain a number of restrictive covenants as described in more detail in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The terms of the Company's senior notes also require certain prepayments of principal beginning in September 2012 and continuing each following year until their full repayment in September 2016. If one or more of these covenants is breached or liquidity is restricted due to the required repayments, the Company could be required to negotiate with its debt-holders to waive or revise the covenant or seek to refinance the debt. If the Company is not successful in an effort to negotiate with existing debt-holders or refinance the debt, the Company may not have the ability to fund the debt, which could adversely impact cash flows, liquidity and the Company's financial condition. The Company's business is highly competitive and increased competition could adversely affect its sales and financial condition.The Company competes on the basis of quality, price, product availability and security of supply, product development, and customer service. Some competitors in certain markets are larger than Spartech and may have greater financial resources or lower debt levels that allow them to be better positioned to withstand changes in such industries. The Company's competitors may introduce new products based on alternative technologies that may be more competitive, which would result in a decline in sales volume and earnings. The greater financial resources or the lower debt levels of certain of the Company's competitors may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions. These competitive factors could cause the Company to lose market share, exit certain lines of business, increase expenditures or reduce pricing, each of which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.6Table of ContentsThe cost and availability of raw materials, energy costs and freight costs could adversely impact the Company's operating results and financial condition.Material, energy and freight costs represent a significant portion of the Company's cost structure. The Company purchases various raw material resins derived from crude oil or natural gas to produce its products. The Company also uses a significant amount of energy in its operations and incurs significant freight costs. The cost of these resins, energy and freight have been highly volatile in the last few years and on occasion supply of certain raw materials has been limited. Volatility of resin, energy and freight costs is expected to continue and may be affected by a number of factors, including the base cost of oil and natural gas, political instability or hostilities in oil-producing countries, vendor consolidations, exchange rates between the US dollar and other currencies and changes in supply and demand. The direction and degree of future resin, energy and freight cost changes; changes in resin availability; and the Company's ability to manage and pass through such changes timely is uncertain and large, rapid increases in resin, energy or freight costs could lead to declining margins, operating results, cash flows and financial condition.A limited number of customers account for a significant percentage of the Company's revenues and the loss of several significant customers could adversely impact the Company's sales, operating results and cash flows. Although no single customer represented more than 10% of the Company's consolidated sales in fiscal 2011, the Company's top five (5) and twenty-five (25) customers represented approximately 16% and 38%, respectively of fiscal 2011 sales dollars. The Company's financial results may continue to depend in part upon a small number of large customers. If a significant customer is lost, becomes unable to pay timely, is unable to continue its operations, or if changes in the business of a significant customer occur, the Company's results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely impacted. The Company is subject to litigation and environmental regulations that could adversely impact the Company.The Company is subject to various claims, lawsuits and administrative proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business with respect to environmental, commercial, product liability, employment and other matters, several of which claim substantial amounts of damages. The Company has recorded reserves for potential liabilities where we believe the liability to be probable and reasonably estimable. It is possible that the Company's ultimate liability could materially differ from the Company's estimated liability. The Company is also subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment, and could incur substantial costs as a result of the non-compliance with or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental laws. In the event of one or more adverse determinations, the impact on the Company's results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition could be material to any specific period. See Part 1 - Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” and “Note 14 - Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on specific material cases. A major failure to the Company's information systems could harm its business.Over the past few years, the Company has implemented a company-wide Oracle information system and business intelligence reporting capabilities. Most of the Company is integrated into these information systems, which are required to process orders; respond to customer inquiries; schedule production, manage inventory; purchase, sell; and ship product on a timely basis; and provide daily, weekly, and monthly key performance indicators to decision-makers. The Company may experience operating problems with its information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer hackers, or other causes. Any significant disruption or slowdown of the Company's information systems could cause orders to be lost, delayed or cancelled or data to become unavailable, which could adversely impact the Company's business. The Company's foreign operations subject it to economic risk because results of operations are affected by foreign currency fluctuations, changes in local government regulations and other political, economic and social conditions.The Company sells, manufactures, and purchases products in foreign markets as well as holds assets and liabilities in these jurisdictions. Changes in the relative value of foreign currencies to US dollars to which the Company is exposed, specifically the Canadian dollar, euro and Mexican peso, occur from time to time and could have an adverse impact on the Company's operating results and the book values of net assets within these jurisdictions. Exposure to changes in local political or economic conditions, other potential domestic and foreign governmental practices or policies affecting US companies doing business abroad, or social unrest, including acts of violence, in the foreign countries in which the Company operates could have an adverse effect on the results of operations in those countries.A major failure at certain of the Company's facilities that produce product lines that the Company cannot produce at alternate facilities, could result in customer loss, revenue loss and asset impairment.Certain of the Company's product lines are currently produced at a single manufacturing facility with no ability to produce the product line at a second facility. Our manufacturing facilities and operations could be disrupted by a natural disaster, labor strife, terrorist activity, public health concerns or other events. Our manufacturing facilities may also be susceptible to changes 7Table of Contentsin laws and policies of local governments and states which could cause disruptions. Any such disruption could cause delays in shipments of products and the loss of sales and customers, particularly with respect to product lines that the Company currently only produces at a single location. Although the Company has plans in place, including insurance, to mitigate the effects of any such disruption, there can be no assurance that mitigation efforts will be successful or that insurance proceeds will adequately compensate us for any resulting losses. Labor matters could divert the attention of our management or disrupt our operations, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Various labor unions represent approximately 30% of our hourly-paid employees under collective bargaining agreements, which terminate at various times between April 2012 and October 2015. Labor organizing activities could result in additional employees becoming unionized. Although we believe our relations with our employees and their various representatives are generally satisfactory, we cannot assure that we can successfully negotiate future collective bargaining agreements or any other labor agreements without work stoppages and cannot assure that any work stoppages will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Labor negotiations and disputes could also require significant management resources to resolve, which could have a negative impact on our business.Access to funding through capital markets is essential to execution of the Company's future business plans. An inability to maintain such access could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and financial results.The ability to invest in the Company's businesses and refinance maturing debt obligations requires access to the capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support short-term borrowing needs. The capital markets have been volatile and credit markets have been more restrictive with the availability of credit. A lack of available credit or volatility in the financial markets could reduce business activity and the Company's ability to obtain and manage liquidity. The extent of this impact will depend on several factors, including the Company's operating cash flows, the duration of restrictive credit conditions and volatile equity markets, the Company's credit rating and credit capacity, the cost of financing, and other general economic and business conditions.ITEM 1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.