Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The factors listed below represent the Company’s principal risks. These factors may or may not occur and we are not in a position to express a view on the likelihood of any such factor occurring. Other factors may exist that we do not consider significant based on information that is currently available or that we are not currently able to anticipate. Price increases in raw materials and energy costs could adversely affect operating results and financial condition. In 2006, raw material costs represented 74% of total costs of sales. We purchase various raw material resins derived from crude oil or natural gas to produce our products. The cost of these resins has been highly volatile in the last few years with significant price increases. This volatility of resin costs is expected to continue and may be affected by a number of factors including political instability or hostilities in oil-producing countries and changes in supply and demand. We have historically been successful at managing the impact of this volatility on our margins by passing through price changes to customers, negotiating competitive prices with suppliers, increasing production efficiencies and controlling inventory levels. While we will continue to try to manage these costs, the direction and degree of future resin cost changes and our ability to manage such changes is uncertain. As a result, higher crude oil and natural gas costs could lead to declining margins, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. The cyclical nature of our suppliers and customers businesses could adversely affect our sales, profitability, operating results and cash flows during economic downturns. General economic conditions and business conditions of our suppliers’ and customers’ industries affect the supply and demand for our products. The businesses of most of our suppliers and customers can be cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in general economic conditions. Political instability may lead to financial and economic instability, which could lead to deterioration in general global economic conditions. Downturns in the businesses that use our products would adversely affect our sales. Downturns in general economic conditions may result in diminished product demand, excess manufacturing capacity and lower average selling prices. In addition, downturns in our customers’ industries, even during periods of strong general economic conditions, could adversely affect our sales, profitability, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive marketplace, which could adversely affect our sales and financial condition. We compete on the basis of product performance, quality, price, availability, security of supply, product development and customer service. Some competitors are larger than we are in certain markets and may have greater financial resources that allow them to be better positioned to withstand changes in our industry. Our competitors may introduce new products based on alternative technologies that may be more competitive causing us to lose customers which would result in a decline in our sales volume and earnings. Our customers demand high quality and low cost products and services. The cost and availability of energy and strategic raw materials may continue to deteriorate domestically while improving in the international market. Given the global competitive marketplace in which we compete, any such change could adversely impact the demand for our products. Competition could cause us to lose market share, exit certain lines of business, increase expenditures or reduce pricing, each of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We may incur significant charges or be adversely impacted by the closure of all or part of a manufacturing facility. We periodically assess the cost structure of our manufacturing facilities in order to manufacture and sell our products in the most efficient manner. Based on our assessments, we may make capital investments to modernize facilities, move or discontinue manufacturing capabilities, or close all or part of a manufacturing facility. These changes could result in significant future charges or disruptions in our operations, and we may not achieve the expected benefits from these investments which could result in an adverse impact on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. We are in the process of implementing a new Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) computer system which could cause substantial business interruption that could adversely impact our operating results. We are implementing a new ERP system and investing significant financial and personnel resources into this project. We are using a controlled project plan and believe we have assigned adequate staffing and other resources to the project to ensure its successful implementation. However, there is no assurance that the design will meet our current and future business needs or that it will operate as designed. We are heavily dependent on such computer systems, and any significant failure or delay in the system implementation, if encountered, would cause a substantial interruption to our business and additional expense which could result in an adverse impact on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. We may encounter difficulties in integrating businesses we have acquired, and therefore we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. In the past several years, we have made strategic acquisitions intended to complement or expand our business, and may continue to do so in the future. The success of these transactions will depend on our ability to integrate assets and personnel acquired in these transactions. We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations, and in managing strategic investments. Furthermore, we may not realize the degree, or timing, of benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 5 Table of Contents We have a significant amount of goodwill, and any future goodwill impairment charges could adversely impact our results of operations. As of October 28, 2006, we had goodwill of $350.4 million, which is 34% of our total assets. We completed our annual impairment review required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (“SFAS 142”) during the fourth quarter of 2006, and recognized a $3.2 million impairment charge in our Engineered Products group. In addition, the occurrence of a potential indicator of impairment, such as a significant adverse change in business climate, unanticipated competition, loss of key personnel or a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of, would require us to perform another valuation analysis, as required under SFAS 142, for some or all of our reporting units prior to the next required annual assessment. These types of events and the resulting analysis could result in additional charges for goodwill which could adversely impact our results of operations. We are part of an environmental investigation initiated by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection in 2003 and if our liability is materially different from the amount accrued, it could impact our results of operations. We operate under various laws and regulations governing employee safety and the quantities of specified substances that may be emitted into the air, discharged into waterways, or otherwise disposed of on and off our properties. In September 2003, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection issued a directive and the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“USEPA”) initiated an investigation related to over 70 companies, including one of our subsidiaries, regarding the Lower Passaic River. Our subsidiary subsequently agreed to participate in a group of over 40 companies in funding $10 million of an estimated $20 million environmental study by the USEPA to determine the extent and source of contamination at this site, and as of the end of 2005, it had paid its total commitment of $0.3 million towards this study. In 2006, the group’s technical consultant advised the group of its belief that completion of the environmental study would significantly exceed the USEPA’s original cost estimate. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we recorded a $0.6 million charge in selling, general and administrative expense for our subsidiary’s expected funding to complete the study to be funded over five years, the expected timeframe of the study. As of October 28, 2006, we had $0.7 million accrued related to this issue. Due to uncertainties inherent in this matter, management is unable to estimate our potential exposure, including possible remediation or other environmental responsibilities that may result from this matter which is not expected to occur for a number of years. These uncertainties primarily include the completion and outcome of the environmental study and the percentage of contamination attributable to the subsidiary and other parties. We believe that it is possible that our ultimate liability resulting from this issue could materially differ from our October 28, 2006 accrual balance. In the event of one or more adverse determinations related to this issue, the impact on our results of operations could be material to any specific period. However, it is our opinion that future expenditures for compliance with these laws and regulations, as they relate to the Lower Passaic River issue and other potential issues, will not have a material effect on our capital expenditures, financial position, or competitive position. We are subject to other litigation and environmental regulations that could adversely impact our operating results. The Company is, and in the future may be, subject to various claims, lawsuits, and administrative proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business with respect to commercial, product liability, employment, and other matters, several of which claim substantial amounts of damages. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we can offer no assurance that existing litigation or a future adverse development will not have a material adverse impact on the Company. We also are subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment, and we could incur substantial costs as a result of any noncompliance with or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental laws. Access to funding through capital markets is an important part of our business plan and if we are unable to maintain such access we could experience a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our ability to invest in our businesses, make strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing debt obligations requires access to the capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support short-term borrowings. If we are unable to continue to access the capital markets, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. The Company is subject to a number of restrictive covenants in its credit facilities and breaches of these covenants could become events of default under the Company’s credit facilities and cause the acceleration of the majority of debt beyond the Company’s ability to pay. The Company’s credit facilities contain a number of restrictive covenants as described in more detail in Note 10 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. These covenants require the Company to, among other matters, restrict the incurrence of additional indebtedness, satisfy certain ratios and net worth levels, and limit both the sale of assets and merger transactions. If breached, these restrictive covenants would force the Company to negotiate with its bankers to waive the covenants and could significantly impact the Company’s ability to manage its business. In addition, those covenants could affect the Company’s flexibility in making investments and acquisitions. 6 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 