Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The factors listed below represent the Company’s principal risks. These factors may or may not occur and the Company is not in a position to express a view on the likelihood of any such factor occurring. Other factors may exist that the Company does not consider significant based on information that is currently available. Additional risks may exist that the Company is not currently able to anticipate. Recessions, adverse market conditions or downturns in the end markets served by the Company may negatively impact the Company’s sales, profitability, operating results and cash flows. The Company’s sales profitability, operating results and cash flows may be exposed to significant volatility in the future due to changes in general economic conditions, recessions or adverse conditions in the end markets the Company serves. These changes in turn could also trigger impairment of goodwill or other long-lived assets due to the fair value of such assets falling below the Company’s carrying value. In addition, during economic downturns the Company may undertake more extensive restructuring actions and therefore incur higher restructuring and exit costs during such periods. If the Company’s restructuring actions are not adequate or if it incurs more restructuring and exit costs than anticipated, the Company may not be able to achieve its anticipated operating results. Price increases in raw materials and energy costs could adversely affect the Company’s operating results and financial condition. In 2009, material costs represented 63% of net sales. The Company purchases various raw material resins derived from crude oil or natural gas to produce its products. The cost of these resins has been highly volatile in the last few years. This volatility of resin costs is expected to continue and may be affected by a number of factors including the base cost of oil and natural gas, political instability or hostilities in oil-producing countries, vendor consolidations, exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies and changes in supply and demand. The direction and degree of future resin cost changes and the Company’s ability to manage such changes is uncertain and large rapid increases in resin costs could lead to declining margins, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. The Company’s credit facility, senior notes and term loan agreements contain a number of restrictive covenants; breaches of these covenants are events of default and cause the acceleration of debt beyond the Company’s ability to fund such debt. The Company’s credit facility, senior notes and term loan agreements contain a number of restrictive covenants as described in more detail in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. If one of these covenants is breached, the Company would be required to negotiate with our debt holders to waive the covenant and, if denied, the Company may not have the ability to fund the debt which would adversely impact management’s ability to operate the business. Access to funding through capital markets is essential to execution of the Company’s future business plans. If the Company is unable to maintain such access, it could have a material adverse effect on its business and financial results. The ability to invest in the Company’s businesses and refinance maturing debt obligations requires access to the capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support short-term borrowing needs. The capital markets have been volatile and credit markets have been disrupted, which has reduced the availability of investment capital and credit. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and its ability to obtain and manage liquidity. The extent of this impact will depend on several factors, including the Company’s operating cash flows, the duration of tight credit conditions and volatile equity markets, the Company’s credit rating and credit capacity, the cost of financing, and other general economic and business conditions. The Company operates in a highly competitive marketplace, which could adversely affect its sales and financial condition. The Company competes on the basis of quality, price, product availability and security of supply, product development and customer service. Some competitors in certain markets are larger than Spartech and may have greater financial resources that allow them to be better positioned to withstand changes in such industries. The Company’s competitors may introduce new products based on alternative technologies that may be more competitive which would result in a decline in sales volume and earnings. The Company’s customers demand high quality and low cost products and services. The cost and availability of energy and strategic raw materials may continue to deteriorate domestically while improving in the international market. Given the global marketplace in which the Company competes, competition could cause the Company to lose market share, exit certain lines of business, increase expenditures or reduce pricing, each of which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A limited number of customers account for a significant percentage of the Company’s revenues and the loss of several significant customers could adversely impact the Company’s sales, operating results and cash flows. In 2009, the Company’s five largest customers represented 24% of sales dollars and its financial results may continue to depend in part upon a small number of large customers. Changes in the business of several significant customers or changes in the relationship between several significant customers and the Company could adversely impact the Company’s sales, operating results and cash flows. 5 Table of Contents A major failure to the Company’s information systems could harm its business. Over the past few years, the Company has invested in a company-wide Oracle information system and business intelligence reporting capabilities. Most of the Company is integrated into these information systems which are required to process orders, respond to customer inquiries, manage inventory, purchase, sell and ship product on a timely basis, and provide daily, weekly and monthly key performance indicators to decision makers. The Company may experience operating problems with its information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer hackers or other causes. Any significant disruption or slowdown of the Company’s information systems could cause orders to be lost, delayed or cancelled or data to become temporarily unavailable, which could adversely impact the Company’s business. The Company’s foreign operations subject it to economic risk because results of operations are affected by foreign currency fluctuations, changes in local government regulations and other political, economic and social conditions. The Company sells, manufactures and purchases products in foreign markets as well as holds assets and liabilities in these jurisdictions. Changes in the relative value of foreign currencies to U.S. dollars to which the Company is exposed, specifically the Canadian dollar, euro and Mexican peso, occur from time to time and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s operating results and the book values of net assets within these jurisdictions. Exposures to local social unrest, including acts of violence, in the foreign countries in which the Company operates could have an adverse effect on the results of operations in those countries. The Company is part of an environmental investigation initiated by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (“NJDEP”) and the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“USEPA”) as well as associated litigation initiated by the NJDEP, and if the Company’s liability is materially different from the amount accrued, it could impact the Company’s results of operations. The Company operates under various laws and regulations governing employee safety and the quantities of specified substances that may be emitted into the air, discharged into waterways, or otherwise disposed of on and off the Company’s properties. In September 2003, the NJDEP issued a directive and the USEPA initiated an investigation related to over 70 companies, including one of the Company’s subsidiaries, regarding the Lower Passaic River. The subsidiary subsequently agreed to participate in a group of over 40 companies in funding an environmental study by the USEPA to determine the extent and source of contamination at this site. In 2006, the USEPA asked the group to assume the responsibility for completing the study. In 2005, the NJDEP initiated civil litigation in the Superior Court of New Jersey, Law Division — Essex County against Occidental Chemical Corporation and affiliated entities, including Tierra Solutions, Inc. (“Tierra”), regarding environmental degradation of the Lower Passaic River and other areas. In 2009, Tierra filed a third party complaint against other companies doing business in the Lower Passaic River area, including a former owner of the Company’s Kearny, New Jersey facility. The Company assumed certain environmental liability of such former owner when it acquired the facility. The litigation is in the early stages with respect to the third party defendants. As of October 31, 2009, the Company had approximately $0.9 million accrued related to its share of the funding and related legal expenses of the study and litigation. Due to uncertainties inherent in this matter, the Company is unable to estimate its potential exposure, including possible remediation or other environmental responsibilities that may result from this matter. These uncertainties primarily include the completion and outcome of the environmental study, the percentage of contamination attributable to the subsidiary and other parties and the outcome of the litigation. It is possible that the Company’s ultimate liability resulting from this matter could materially differ from the October 31, 2009 accrual balance. In the event of one or more adverse determinations related to this matter, the impact on the Company’s results of operations could be material to any specific period. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 