ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSIN EVALUATING THE COMPANY, CAREFUL CONSIDERATION SHOULD BE GIVEN TO THE RISK FACTORS SET FORTH BELOW, AS WELL AS THE OTHER INFORMATION SET FORTH IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K. ALTHOUGH THESE RISK FACTORS ARE MANY, THESE FACTORS SHOULD NOT BE REGARDED AS CONSTITUTING THE ONLY RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESSES. EACH OF THESE RISK FACTORS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, OPERATING RESULTS, CASH FLOWS AND/OR FINANCIAL CONDITION. IN ADDITION TO THE FOLLOWING DISCLOSURES, PLEASE REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT INCLUDING THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE RELATED NOTES. UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED, ALL RISK FACTORS LISTED BELOW SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ATTRIBUTABLE TO ALL OUR OPERATIONS INCLUDING ALL OPERATIONS CLASSIFIED AS DISCONTINUED. We may be unable to obtain satisfaction of all conditions to complete our merger with PolyOne, including the approval of our stockholders, in the anticipated timeframe.On October 23, 2012, PolyOne Merger Sub, Merger LLC, and Spartech entered into a Merger Agreement pursuant to which Spartech will be merged with and into Merger Sub, with Spartech to be the surviving corporation in the Merger and a wholly owned subsidiary of PolyOne. The merger will happen only if stated conditions are met, including the approval of the merger proposal by Spartech's stockholders, the receipt of regulatory approvals, and the absence of any material adverse effect in the business of Spartech or PolyOne. Many of the conditions are outside the control of Spartech and PolyOne, and both parties also have stated rights to terminate the merger agreement. Accordingly, there may be uncertainty regarding the completion of the merger. This uncertainty may cause customers, suppliers or strategic partners to delay or defer decisions concerning Spartech or PolyOne, which could negatively affect their respective businesses. Any delay or deferral of those decisions or changes in existing agreements could have a material adverse effect on the respective businesses of Spartech and PolyOne or retention of key employees, regardless of whether the merger is ultimately completed. Uncertainty regarding the merger may cause customers, suppliers or strategic partners to delay or defer decisions concerning PolyOne and Spartech and adversely affect each company's ability to effectively manage their respective businesses.Failure to complete the Merger could negatively impact our stock price, future business and financial results.The conditions to the completion of the Merger may not be satisfied as noted above. If the Merger is not completed for any reason, we will be subject to several risks, including the following:•being required to pay certain costs relating to the Merger, including certain investment banking, financing, legal and accounting fees and expenses, whether or not the Merger is completed;•having had the focus of Spartech management directed towards the Merger and integration planning instead of our core business and other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us;•a decrease in the price of Spartech common stock to the extent that the current market price of the stock reflects a market assumption that the Merger will be completed or as a result of the market's perceptions that the Merger was not consummated due to an adverse change in our business; and•a lack of alternative business combination transactions that would create stockholder value comparable to the value perceived to be created by the Merger in the event Spartech Board of Directors determines to seek an alternative transaction.In addition, Spartech would not realize any of the expected benefits of having completed the Merger and would continue to have risks that we currently face as an independent company. For example, our business may be harmed, and the price of our stock may decline as a result, to the extent that employees, customers, suppliers, and others believe that we cannot compete in the marketplace as effectively without the Merger or otherwise remain uncertain about our future prospects in the absence of the Merger. The Merger Agreement restricts the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the Merger and limits our ability to pursue an alternative acquisition proposal to the Merger.Under the Merger Agreement, we are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to completing the Merger which may adversely affect our ability to exercise certain of our business strategies. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business prior to completion of the Merger or termination of the Merger Agreement.In addition, the Merger Agreement prohibits Spartech from initiating, soliciting or knowingly encouraging the submission of, participating or engaging in any negotiations or discussions with respect to certain alternative acquisition proposals with third parties, subject to exceptions set forth in the Merger Agreement. The Merger Agreement also provides that we are required to 7Table of Contentspay a termination fee of $8.8 million if the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, including if we terminate to accept an alternative acquisition proposal. These provisions limit our ability to pursue offers from third parties that could result in greater value to our stockholders than the value resulting from the Merger. The termination fee may also discourage third parties from pursuing an acquisition proposal with respect to Spartech.Because the market price of shares of PolyOne common stock will fluctuate and the exchange ratio that forms a part of the Merger Consideration in the Merger will not be adjusted to reflect such fluctuations, Spartech stockholders cannot be sure of the value of the stock portion of the Merger Consideration they will receive in the Merger.Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Merger, each issued and outstanding share of Spartech common stock will be canceled and converted into the right to receive consideration equal to $2.67 in cash and 0.3167 PolyOne common shares. In the aggregate, PolyOne will issue approximately 9.9 million of its common shares and pay approximately $84,000,000 in cash to Spartech shareholders. The number of shares of PolyOne common stock to be issued pursuant to the Merger Agreement for each share of Spartech common stock will not change to reflect changes in the market price of PolyOne or Spartech common stock. The market price of PolyOne common stock at the time of completion of the Merger may vary significantly from the market prices of PolyOne common stock on the date the Merger Agreement was executed or at other later dates, including the date on which Spartech stockholders vote on the adoption of the Merger Agreement. Because we will not adjust the exchange ratio to reflect any changes in the market value of PolyOne common stock or Spartech common stock, the market value of the PolyOne common stock issued in connection with the merger and the Spartech common stock surrendered in connection with the merger may be higher or lower than the values of those shares on earlier dates. Stock price changes may result from market reaction to the announcement of the merger and market assessment of the likelihood that the merger will be completed, changes in the business, operations or prospects of PolyOne or Spartech prior to or following the merger, regulatory considerations, general business, market, industry or economic conditions and other factors both within and beyond the control of PolyOne and Spartech.If the Merger is completed, the combined company may not be able to successfully integrate the business of Spartech and PolyOne and therefore may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger.Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Merger, each issued and outstanding share of Spartech common stock will be canceled and converted into the right to receive consideration equal to $2.67 in cash and 0.3167 PolyOne common shares. In the aggregate, PolyOne will issue approximately 9.9 million of its common shares and pay approximately $84,000,000 in cash to Spartech shareholders. Because a portion of the Merger Consideration consists of PolyOne common stock, realization of the anticipated benefits in the Merger will depend, in part, on the combined company's ability to successfully integrate the businesses and operations of PolyOne and Spartech. The combined company will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating its business practices, operations, and support functions.The process of integrating PolyOne's and Spartech operations could cause an interruption of or loss of momentum in, the combined company's business and financial performance. The diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the Merger and the integration of the two companies' operations could have an adverse effect on the business, financial results, financial condition, or stock price of PolyOne (as the combined company following the Merger). The integration process may also result in additional and unforeseen expenses. There can be no assurance that the contemplated expense savings and synergies anticipated from the Merger will be realized.Pending litigation against Spartech, PolyOne, Merger Sub and our directors could result in an injunction preventing completion of the Merger, or the payment of damages in the event the Merger is completed and/or may adversely affect the combined company's business, financial condition or results of operations following the Merger.Since the announcement on October 23, 2012 of the signing of the Merger Agreement, Spartech, PolyOne, as well as the members of our Board of Directors, have been named as defendants in two lawsuits purportedly brought by our stockholders challenging the proposed Merger. The lawsuits generally allege, among other things, that the Merger fails to properly value Spartech, that the individual defendants breached their fiduciary duties in approving the Merger Agreement and that those breaches were aided and abetted by PolyOne. The lawsuits seek, among other things, injunctive relief to enjoin the defendants from completing the Merger on the agreed−upon terms, monetary relief and attorneys' fees and costs.One of the conditions to the closing of the Merger is that no injunction preventing the consummation of the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement shall be in effect and that no statute, rule, regulation, order, injunction or decree shall have been enacted, entered, promulgated or enforced by any governmental entity that prohibits or makes illegal the consummation of the Merger. Consequently, if the plaintiffs secure injunctive or other relief prohibiting, delaying, or otherwise adversely affecting the defendants' ability to complete the Merger, then such injunctive or other relief 8Table of Contentsmay prevent the Merger from becoming effective within the expected time frame or at all. If completion of the Merger is prevented or delayed, it could result in substantial costs to us and PolyOne. In addition, Spartech and PolyOne could incur significant costs in connection with the lawsuits, including costs associated with the indemnification of our directors and officers. See also Legal Proceedings - Litigation for more information about the lawsuits that have been filed related to the Merger.Recessions, adverse market conditions or downturns in the end markets served by the Company may negatively impact the Company's sales, profitability, operating results and cash flows. The Company's sales, profitability, operating results and cash flows may be negatively impacted in the future due to changes in general economic conditions, recessions or adverse conditions. Continued uncertainty regarding the recovery of the global economy, especially in North America, including continued low levels of job recovery and business and consumer spending, have resulted in challenges to the Company's business and the end markets the Company serves, including the transportation, building and construction and recreation and leisure end markets, which represented approximately 20%, 16%, and 6%, respectively of the Company's sales during the year ended November 3, 2012. If economic conditions worsen, the Company could experience potential declines in revenues, profitability and cash flow due to reduced orders, payment delays, supply chain disruptions or other factors caused by economic challenges faced by customers, prospective customers and suppliers. The Company's credit facility and senior notes contain a number of restrictive covenants; breaches of these covenants are events of default and could cause the acceleration of debt beyond the Company's ability to fund such debt.The Company's credit facility and senior notes contain a number of restrictive covenants as described in more detail in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The terms of the Company's senior notes also require certain prepayments of principal which began in September 2012 and continue each following year until their full repayment in September 2016. If one or more of these covenants is breached or liquidity is restricted due to the required repayments, the Company could be required to negotiate with its debt-holders to waive or revise the covenant or seek to refinance the debt. If the Company is not successful in an effort to negotiate with existing debt-holders or refinance the debt, the Company may not have the ability to fund the debt, which could adversely impact cash flows, liquidity, its ability to invest in capital equipment, and the Company's financial condition. The Company's business is highly competitive and increased competition could adversely affect its sales and financial condition.The Company competes on the basis of quality, price, product availability and security of supply, product development, and customer service. Some competitors in certain markets are larger than Spartech and may have greater financial resources or lower debt levels that allow them to be better positioned to withstand changes in such industries. The Company's competitors may introduce new products based on alternative technologies that may be more competitive, which would result in a decline in sales volume and earnings. The greater financial resources or the lower debt levels of certain of the Company's competitors may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions. These competitive factors could cause the Company to lose market share, exit certain lines of business, increase expenditures or reduce pricing, each of which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.The cost and availability of raw materials, energy costs and freight costs could adversely impact the Company's operating results and financial condition.Material, energy and freight costs represent a significant portion of the Company's cost structure. The Company purchases various raw material resins derived from crude oil or natural gas to produce its products. The Company also uses a significant amount of energy in its operations and incurs significant freight costs. The cost of these resins, energy and freight have been highly volatile in the last few years and on occasion supply of certain raw materials has been limited. Volatility of resin, energy and freight costs is expected to continue and may be affected by a number of factors, including the base cost of oil and natural gas, political instability or hostilities in oil-producing countries, vendor consolidations, exchange rates between the US dollar and other currencies and changes in supply and demand. The direction and degree of future resin, energy and freight cost changes; changes in resin availability; and the Company's ability to manage and pass through such changes timely is uncertain and large, rapid increases in resin, energy or freight costs could lead to declining margins, operating results, cash flows and financial condition.A limited number of customers account for a significant percentage of the Company's revenues and the loss of several significant customers could adversely impact the Company's sales, operating results and cash flows. Although no single customer represented more than 10% of the Company's consolidated sales in fiscal 2012, the Company's top five (5) and twenty-five (25) customers represented approximately 15% and 35%, respectively of fiscal 2012 sales dollars. The Company's financial results may continue to depend in part upon a small number of large customers. If a significant customer or several customers are lost, becomes unable to pay timely, is unable to continue its operations, or if changes in the 9Table of Contentsbusiness of a significant customer occur, the Company's results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely impacted. The Company is subject to litigation and environmental regulations that could adversely impact the Company.The Company is subject to various claims, lawsuits and administrative proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business with respect to environmental, commercial, product liability, employment and other matters, several of which claim substantial amounts of damages. The Company has recorded reserves for potential liabilities where we believe the liability to be probable and reasonably estimable. It is possible that the Company's ultimate liability could materially differ from the Company's estimated liability. The Company is also subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment, and could incur substantial costs as a result of the non-compliance with or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental laws. In the event of one or more adverse determinations, the impact on the Company's results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition could be material to any specific period. See Part 1 - Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” and “Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on specific material cases. A major failure to the Company's information systems could harm its business.Over the past few years, the Company has implemented a company-wide Oracle information system and business intelligence reporting capabilities. Most of the Company is integrated into these information systems, which are required to process orders; respond to customer inquiries; schedule production, manage inventory; purchase, sell; and ship product on a timely basis; and provide daily, weekly, and monthly key performance indicators to decision-makers. The Company may experience operating problems with its information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer hackers, or other causes. Any significant disruption or slowdown of the Company's information systems could cause orders to be lost, delayed or canceled or data to become unavailable, which could adversely impact the Company's business. The Company's foreign operations subject it to economic risk because results of operations are affected by foreign currency fluctuations, changes in local government regulations and other political, economic and social conditions.The Company sells, manufactures, and purchases products in foreign markets as well as holds assets and liabilities in these jurisdictions. Changes in the relative value of foreign currencies to US dollars to which the Company is exposed, specifically the Canadian dollar, euro and Mexican peso, occur from time to time and could have an adverse impact on the Company's operating results and the book values of net assets within these jurisdictions. Exposure to changes in local political or economic conditions, other potential domestic and foreign governmental practices or policies affecting US companies doing business abroad, or social unrest, including acts of violence, in the foreign countries in which the Company operates could have an adverse effect on the results of operations in those countries.A major failure at certain of the Company's facilities that produce product lines that the Company cannot produce at alternate facilities, could result in customer loss, revenue loss and asset impairment.Certain of the Company's product lines are currently produced at a single manufacturing facility with no ability to produce the product line at a second facility. Our manufacturing facilities and operations could be disrupted by a natural disaster, labor strife, terrorist activity, public health concerns or other events. Our manufacturing facilities may also be susceptible to changes in laws and policies of local governments and states which could cause disruptions. Any such disruption could cause delays in shipments of products and the loss of sales and customers, particularly with respect to product lines that the Company currently only produces at a single location. Although the Company has plans in place, including insurance, to mitigate the effects of any such disruption, there can be no assurance that mitigation efforts will be successful or that insurance proceeds will adequately compensate us for any resulting losses. Labor matters could divert the attention of our management or disrupt our operations, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Various labor unions represent approximately 32% of our hourly-paid employees under collective bargaining agreements, which terminate at various times between February 2013 and February 2016. Labor organizing activities could result in additional employees becoming unionized. Although we believe our relations with our employees and their various representatives are generally satisfactory, we cannot assure that we can successfully negotiate future collective bargaining agreements or any other labor agreements without work stoppages and cannot assure that any work stoppages will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Labor negotiations and disputes could also require significant management resources to resolve, which could have a negative impact on our business.Access to funding through capital markets is essential to execution of the Company's future business plans. An inability to maintain such access could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and financial results.The ability to invest in the Company's businesses and refinance maturing debt obligations requires access to the capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support short-term borrowing needs. The capital markets have been volatile and credit 10Table of Contentsmarkets have been more restrictive with the availability of credit. A lack of available credit or volatility in the financial markets could reduce business activity and the Company's ability to obtain and manage liquidity. The extent of this impact will depend on several factors, including the Company's operating cash flows, the duration of restrictive credit conditions and volatile equity markets, the Company's credit rating and credit capacity, the cost of financing, and other general economic and business conditions.ITEM 1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.