ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS IN EVALUATING THE COMPANY, CAREFUL CONSIDERATION SHOULD BE GIVEN TO THE RISK FACTORS SET FORTH BELOW, AS WELL AS THE OTHER INFORMATION SET FORTH IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K. ALTHOUGH THESE RISK FACTORS ARE MANY, THESE FACTORS SHOULD NOT BE REGARDED AS CONSTITUTING THE ONLY RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESSES. EACH OF THESE RISK FACTORS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, OPERATING RESULTS, CASH FLOWS AND/OR FINANCIAL CONDITION. IN ADDITION TO THE FOLLOWING DISCLOSURES, PLEASE REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT INCLUDING THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE RELATED NOTES. UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED, ALL RISK FACTORS LISTED BELOW SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ATTRIBUTABLE TO ALL OUR OPERATIONS INCLUDING ALL OPERATIONS CLASSIFIED AS DISCONTINUED. Recessions, adverse market conditions or downturns in the end markets served by the Company may negatively impact the Company’s sales, profitability, operating results and cash flows. The Company’s sales profitability, operating results and cash flows may be negatively impacted in the future due to changes in general economic conditions, recessions or adverse conditions. Continued uncertainty regarding the recovery of the global economy, especially in North America, including continued low levels of job recovery and business and consumer spending, have resulted in challenges to the Company’s business and the end markets the Company serves. If economic conditions worsen, the Company could experience potential declines in revenues, profitability and cash flow due to reduced orders, payment delays, supply chain disruptions or other factors caused by economic challenges faced by customers, prospective customers and suppliers. The cost and availability of raw materials and energy costs could adversely impact the Company’s operating results and financial condition. Material costs represent a significant portion of the Company’s cost structure. The Company purchases various raw material resins derived from crude oil or natural gas to produce its products. The cost of these resins has been highly volatile in the last few years and on occasion supply of certain raw materials could be limited. Volatility of resin costs is expected to continue and may be affected by a number of factors, including the base cost of oil and natural gas, political instability or hostilities in oil-producing countries, vendor consolidations, exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies and changes in supply and demand. The direction and degree of future resin cost changes and the Company’s ability to manage such changes is uncertain and large rapid increases in resin costs could lead to declining margins, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. The Company’s credit facility and senior notes contain a number of restrictive covenants; breaches of these covenants are events of default and could cause the acceleration of debt beyond the Company’s ability to fund such debt. The Company’s credit facility and senior notes contain a number of restrictive covenants as described in more detail in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. If one or more of these covenants is breached, the Company could be required to negotiate with its debt holders to waive the covenant and if denied, the Company may not have the ability to fund the debt, which would adversely impact cash flows, liquidity and the Company’s financial condition. Access to funding through capital markets is essential to execution of the Company’s future business plans. An inability to maintain such access could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results. The ability to invest in the Company’s businesses and refinance maturing debt obligations requires access to the capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support short-term borrowing needs. The capital markets have been volatile and credit markets have been more restrictive with the availability of credit. A lack of available credit or volatility in the financial markets could reduce business activity and the Company’s ability to obtain and manage liquidity. The extent of this impact will depend on several factors, including the Company’s operating cash flows, the duration of restrictive credit conditions and volatile equity markets, the Company’s credit rating and credit capacity, the cost of financing, and other general economic and business conditions. The Company’s business is highly competitive and increased competition could adversely affect its sales and financial condition. The Company competes on the basis of quality, price, product availability and security of supply, product development and customer service. Some competitors in certain markets are larger than Spartech and may have greater financial resources that allow them to be better positioned to withstand changes in such industries. The Company’s competitors may introduce new products based on alternative technologies that may be more competitive, which would result in a decline in sales volume and earnings. The Company’s customers demand high quality and low cost products and services. Competition could cause the Company to lose market share, exit certain lines of business, increase expenditures or reduce pricing, each of which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The greater financial resources or the lower amount of debt of certain of the Company’s competitors may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions. Certain competitors may also have the ability to develop 6 Table of Contents innovative new products or solutions that could put the Company at a competitive disadvantage. If we are unable to compete successfully against other manufactures, we could lose customers and revenue could decline. There can also be no assurance that customers will continue to regard the Company’s products favorably, that the Company will be able to develop new products that appeal to customers, that we will be able to improve or maintain profit margins on sales to customers or that the Company will be able to continue to compete successfully in its core markets. A limited number of customers account for a significant percentage of the Company’s revenues and the loss of several significant customers could adversely impact the Company’s sales, operating results and cash flows. Although no single customer represented more than 10% percent of the Company’s consolidated net sales in 2010, the Company’s top five (5) and twenty-five (25) customers represented approximately 20% and 40%, respectively, of 2010 net sales dollars. The Company’s financial results may continue to depend in part upon a small number of large customers. If a significant customer is lost, unable to continue its operations, or if changes in the business of a significant customer occur, the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely impacted. A major failure to the Company’s information systems could harm its business. Over the past few years, the Company has implemented a company-wide Oracle information system and business intelligence reporting capabilities. Most of the Company is integrated into these information systems, which are required to process orders, respond to customer inquiries, manage inventory, purchase, sell and ship product on a timely basis, and provide daily, weekly and monthly key performance indicators to decision makers. The Company may experience operating problems with its information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer hackers or other causes. Any significant disruption or slowdown of the Company’s information systems could cause orders to be lost, delayed or cancelled or data to become unavailable, which could adversely impact the Company’s business. The Company’s foreign operations subject it to economic risk because results of operations are affected by foreign currency fluctuations, changes in local government regulations and other political, economic and social conditions. The Company sells, manufactures and purchases products in foreign markets as well as holds assets and liabilities in these jurisdictions. Changes in the relative value of foreign currencies to U.S. dollars to which the Company is exposed, specifically the Canadian dollar, euro and Mexican peso, occur from time to time and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s operating results and the book values of net assets within these jurisdictions. Exposure to changes in local political or economic conditions or other potential domestic and foreign governmental practices or policies affecting U.S. companies doing business abroad or social unrest, including acts of violence, in the foreign countries in which the Company operates could have an adverse effect on the results of operations in those countries. In the event of any significant delays in completing the Company’s announced consolidation activities or difficulties encountered in connection with integration of production from closed facilities into existing facilities, the Company’s business could be negatively impacted. The Company continues to consolidate facilities and equipment as part of its financial improvement plan. The Company’s inability to predict accurately the costs to be incurred, time taken to complete, significant operating disruptions as a result of consolidation activities, the potential loss of business or savings to be achieved in connection with announced restructurings could negatively impact results of operations, cash flows or financial position. There can be no assurance that these initiatives will be successfully and fully executed in the amounts or within the time periods that the Company expects. The Company is subject to litigation and environmental regulations that could adversely impact the Company. The Company is subject to various claims, lawsuits and administrative proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business with respect to environmental, commercial, product liability, employment and other matters, several of which claim substantial amounts of damages. The Company has recorded reserves for potential liabilities where we believe the liability to be probable and are reasonably estimable. It is possible that the Company’s ultimate liability could materially differ from the Company’s estimated liability. The Company is also subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment, and could incur substantial costs as a result of the non-compliance with or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental laws. In the event of one or more adverse determinations, the impact on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be material to any specific period. See Part 1 — Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” and the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information on specific material cases. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 7 Table of Contents 