ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have incurred losses for the past six years and we expect operating expenses to continue to be greater than operating revenues in the foreseeable future. We have incurred operating losses for six consecutive fiscal years beginning with the year ended December 31, 2003. Our net losses were approximately $(12.3) million for the year ended December 31, 2006, $(41.5) million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and $(18.3) million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2008 was approximately $(119.6) million. Additionally, a majority of our historical operating revenues have been derived from sales of our discount cigarettes. However, in May 2007, we entered into a license agreement with Tantus for the exclusive license of our trademarks MainStreet®, Sport® and GSmoke®, in return for licensing fees during the seven-year term of the license agreement and beyond, if the license is renewed. Although we retain the right to manufacture and sell other branded cigarettes, we discontinued the manufacture and sale of our discount cigarettes in June 2007 and are focusing our efforts on the sale of low-TSNA dissolvable smokeless tobacco products and the licensing of the related technology, as opposed to cigarettes. Accordingly, we have accounted for our cigarette operations as “discontinued operations” in our consolidated financial statements beginning with the second quarter of 2007. Our future profitability will depend on our ability to generate and sustain increased revenue levels in future periods. This will largely be dependent on the distribution and consumer acceptance of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products as well as the continued development of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, independently and through alliances with other tobacco manufacturers, and our ability to begin generating significant revenues through royalties from the our patented tobacco curing process or from the development of drug products by Rock Creek, which has had no revenue to date. These efforts may be more costly than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset our higher operating expenses associated with these initiatives especially given the loss of revenues from the discontinuation of our discount cigarette business. Additionally, our ability to generate revenues through royalty payments from the licensing of our low-TSNA technology will also be dependent upon the successful completion of our ongoing patent infringement lawsuit against RJR, which is uncertain at this time. In the future, we may not be able to secure financing necessary to operate and grow our business as planned. The recurring losses generated by our operations continue to impose significant demands on our liquidity. Over the last several years our liquidity demands have been met principally by the way of private placements of our common stock and the cash exercise of related warrants. Since January 1, 2009, through the exercise of an aggregate of 1,308,789 options and 6,279,001 warrants for our common stock, in each case for cash, our company received proceeds of approximately $14.0 million. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” However, absent the successful completion of our ongoing patent infringement lawsuit against RJR, the exercise of outstanding options and warrants, a substantial improvement in revenues and/or royalties from the license of our low-TSNA technology, we believe that it will be necessary to pursue additional sources of funds during the second quarter of 2010. However, our business and operations may consume resources faster than we anticipate, and depending upon market conditions and the price of our common stock, we may decide to seek additional funds before that time. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund the expansion of our sales and marketing and research and development efforts or take advantage of other opportunities, which could seriously harm our business and operating results. If we issue additional equity securities, existing stockholders will experience dilution. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months reaching unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and 18 Table of Contents credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed and we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. Our future success will depend in part on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technologies contained in our products, and on successfully defending our patents and other intellectual property against third-party challenges. In particular, our success in commercially exploiting our licensed tobacco curing technology and low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, and our development of pharmaceutical products to treat tobacco-related dependence and related products, depends in large part on our ability to protect the patents related to our low-TSNA technology for which we are the exclusive licensee, to obtain further patent protection for this technology in the United States and other jurisdictions, and to operate without infringing upon the patents and proprietary rights of others. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our proprietary rights. In particular, we have been prosecuting patent infringement claims against RJR in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland with respect to two patents used in our low-TSNA tobacco technology. A jury trial in this case is set to begin on May 18, 2009. In late December 2008 and January 2009, RJR filed requests with the Patent and Trademark Office to reexamine the two patents that are the subject of our patent infringement litigation against RJR. On February 12, 2009, the Patent and Trademark Office granted the reexamination request as to one of the patents and, on March 5, 2009 it granted the other request. The reexamination process will proceed in due course, and we believe that this process will likely last at least two years. During the process the Patent and Trademark Office will undertake a review of the patentability of the subject matter of the patents in view of the prior art cited in RJR’s requests. If we are not successful in the RJR case or in the reexamination process at the Patent and Trademark Office, we may not be able to enforce or license the two patents for producing low-TSNA tobacco that are at issue in these proceedings, which will have a material adverse affect on our operations and future development of our products. We do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable, if challenged. We also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies. If we fail to obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property, or if any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, others could use our intellectual property without compensating us, resulting in harm to our business. We may also determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a third party’s products or patents in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent interferences or reexaminations. In the event that we seek to enforce any of our owned or exclusively licensed patents against an infringing party, it is likely that the party defending the claim will seek to invalidate the patents we assert. If successful this could result in the loss of the entire patent or the relevant portion of our patent, which would not be limited to any particular party. Any litigation to enforce or defend our patent rights, even if we were to prevail, could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products without infringing any of our patent or other intellectual property rights, or may design around our proprietary technologies. U.S. patents and patent applications may also be subject to interference proceedings and U.S. patents may be subject to reexamination proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Foreign patents may be subject to opposition or comparable proceedings in the corresponding foreign patent offices, and those proceedings could result in either loss of the patent or denial of the patent application, or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of the patent or patent application. In addition, such interference, reexamination and opposition proceedings may be costly. Thus, any patents that we own or license from others may provide limited or no protection against competitors. Our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those 19 Table of Contents we may license from third parties, may not result in patents being issued. If issued, they may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. We may also rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how to maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, suppliers and others. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached or terminated, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. Our growth strategy anticipates that we will create new products and distribution channels and expand existing distribution channels for our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. Our future growth is also heavily dependent upon increased consumer acceptance of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, as well as on increased demand to license the related technology. If we are unable to effectively manage these initiatives, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. Our long-term growth strategy includes an increased focus on the sales and marketing of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products and our receipt of royalty fees for the licensing of our patented technology for producing low-TSNA tobacco. However, to date sales of our smokeless tobacco products, and our ability to derive revenue from the licensing of our low-TSNA technology, have been de minimis. Beginning in September 2001, we introduced three new smokeless tobacco products, Stonewall® moist and dry snuffs and ARIVA® hard tobacco cigalett® pieces. In the second quarter of 2003, we began a commercial test market of a new, non-fermented spit-free® “hard tobacco” product for moist snuff users, called STONEWALL Hard Snuff®. Given our company’s decision to focus on dissolvable smokeless tobacco products, we discontinued manufacturing Stonewall® moist snuff and are not actively marketing Stonewall dry snuff. Additionally, our success is dependent upon the willingness and ability of retail customers to market and sell our products to consumers, as well as our success in developing new distribution channels for our very low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. If our significant retail customers or independent distributors were to reduce the quantity of any of our products they sell or stop selling our products, or if we are unable to open new distribution channels for our products, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. To date, sales of our dissolvable smokeless products have been slower than expected. We believe this is due in part to the lack of consumer awareness of ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® and the lack of sufficient capital to increase consumer awareness and acceptance of those products. It is not certain whether our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products will be accepted by the market in sufficient volume to support our operations. Adult tobacco users may decide not to purchase our products due to taste or other preferences, including a preference for our competitor’s products or because of the extensive health warnings contained on the packaging for our products. There can be no assurance that in the future our competitors will not succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective than the products we develop, that are less toxic than our products, or that would render our products obsolete or non-competitive. Further, an inability to successfully increase consumer awareness of and demand for our very low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products would negatively affect our ability to license our patented technology for producing low-TSNA tobacco. This accordingly would materially diminish our ability to derive royalty fees from the license of this technology. If we are unable to license our patented technology for producing low-TSNA tobacco, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our efforts to successfully market ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® to adult tobacco users will also require the expenditure of substantial funds that we will need to obtain from external financing, the availability of which cannot be assured, and ultimately these products may not be accepted in the national marketplace. If we are not successful in our efforts to offer low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products to adults as alternatives to 20 Table of Contents cigarettes and other smokeless products, or to generate revenue through the license of the related technology to which we are the exclusive licensee, we will not have sufficient sales volumes to support our operations. The tobacco industry is highly competitive, and our competitors may develop technology for the production of low-TSNA tobacco that does not infringe on the technology to which we are the exclusive licensee, or they may develop technology for low-TSNA tobacco or other cigarette alternative products that could make our technology obsolete. Virtually all flue-cured tobacco grown in the United States since 2001 has been cured in a manner to reduce the levels of TSNAs. If our competitors produce low-TSNA tobacco that does not infringe on the technology to which we are the exclusive licensee, or develop other tobacco products with less toxins that can compete with our very low-TSNA products, this could adversely affect our operating income and cash flows. The tobacco industry is highly competitive. STONEWALL Hard Snuff® competes with major manufacturers of smokeless tobacco products, and ARIVA® competes with traditional cigarette manufacturers because ARIVA® is positioned as an alternative to cigarettes in situations where adult cigarette users cannot or choose not to smoke. Those companies generally have substantially greater financial and operating resources than we do. Also, these companies have a more established presence in the smokeless tobacco industry than we do. Certain of the major cigarette makers are marketing alternative cigarette products. For example, Philip Morris has developed an alternative cigarette called Accord in which the tobacco is heated rather than burned. RJR has developed an alternative cigarette called Eclipse in which the tobacco is primarily heated, with only a small amount of tobacco burned. Vector Tobacco Inc. developed a cigarette offered in several packings with declining levels of nicotine, called Quest. Further, in 2006 and 2007, both Philip Morris and RJR introduced into test market smokeless, spitless tobacco pouch products designed to provide alternatives to cigarettes that utilize their primary brand names (Marlboro Snus and Camel Snus, respectively), and other smokeless tobacco manufactures have introduced products that claim to have reduced levels of carcinogens. In 2008 Altria, Philip Morris’s parent company expanded its role in the smokeless tobacco market through its acquisition of UST. Also, in 2008 RJR announced its entry into the area of dissolvable smokeless tobacco products and began test marketing three dissolvable smokeless tobacco products in January 2009 that compete directly with our ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® low-TSNA dissolvable smokeless tobacco products. If these initiatives are successful or if our competitors develop new technology for low-TSNA tobacco for use in smokeless tobacco products, we will be subject to increased competition for market share and our current technology for the production of low-TSNA tobacco could become obsolete. Sales of tobacco products have been declining, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and cash flows. The overall U.S. market for cigarettes has generally been declining in terms of volume of sales, as a result of restrictions on advertising and promotions; funding of smoking prevention campaigns; increases in regulation and excise taxes; a decline in the social acceptability of smoking, and other factors, and sales are expected to continue to decline. While the sales of smokeless tobacco products have been increasing over the last several years, the smokeless tobacco market is substantially smaller than the cigarette market. Prior to our exit from the discount cigarette business, we experienced a similar decline in sales of our discount cigarette products, and this downward trend may adversely impact our ability to sell and market our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, particularly as alternatives to cigarettes. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We may face delays in obtaining very low-TSNA tobacco or other raw materials to adequately manufacture our products. As a result of the discontinuation of our business relationship with B&W, and the ongoing burden and expense of the pending patent infringement litigation with RJR, during 2007 we sold approximately 990 tobacco curing barns used for the production of our low-TSNA StarCured® tobacco. We currently continue to maintain 21 Table of Contents 37 StarCured® tobacco curing barns, which we believe to be sufficient to meet our need for low-TSNA StarCured® tobacco in the immediate future. However, we cannot be assured that we will have sufficient availability to curing barns to meet future demand for our low-TSNA tobacco, particularly if the sales volumes of our very low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products substantially increase over a short period of time. Further, in the event that we are unable to obtain adequate amounts of StarCured® tobacco and other raw materials to meet product demands, our customers may seek to fulfill their supply needs by purchasing competing brands, which in turn would reduce our market share and ability to successfully commercialize our very low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our retail customers or independent distributors, and a loss or material reduction in their business with us could result in reduced sales of our products. Our success is dependent upon the willingness and ability of retail customers to market and sell our products to consumers, as well as our success in developing new channels for our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. If any of our significant retail customers or independent distributors were to reduce the quantity of the products we sell, or to stop selling our products, or if we are unable to open new distribution channels for our products, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our retail customers and independent distributors generally purchase products from us on a purchase-order basis and do not have long-term contracts with us. Consequently, with little or no notice and without penalty, our retail customers and independent distributors may terminate their relationships with us or materially reduce the level of their purchases of our products. If this were to occur with one or more retail customers or independent distributors, who purchase significant quantities of our products, it may be difficult for us to establish substitute relationships in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have many potentially dilutive derivative securities outstanding and the issuance of these securities as well as the future sales of our common stock would have a dilutive effect on current stockholders. At March 9, 2009, we had outstanding options granted to directors, employees and consultants to purchase approximately 6,075,011 shares of our common stock, with a weighted-average exercise price of $1.93 per share, of which options for 5,945,011 shares were exercisable at March 9, 2009. We also have outstanding warrants, which are currently exercisable into 13,776,445 shares of our common stock, with a weighted-average exercise price of $2.39 per share. The issuance of these shares will cause dilution which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we issue additional shares of our common stock for sale in future financings, our stockholders would experience further dilution. The combination transaction between RJR and B&W may impact negatively upon us. On July 30, 2004, RJR and B&W, the second and third largest cigarette manufacturers, completed the combination of their United States tobacco businesses to create a new publicly traded holding company, Reynolds American Inc. Prior to this combination, we had been party to multiple substantial commercial relationships with B&W for a number of years, including licensing and royalty agreements relating to the purchase of StarCured® tobacco and other low-TSNA tobacco and the financing of our StarCured® tobacco curing barns. Additionally, we are currently involved in significant patent infringement litigation with RJR with respect to certain of our patents related to the production of low-TSNA tobacco. During the pending patent litigation described above, RJR took the position that the new operating entity resulting from the combination of RJR and B&W assumed all of the rights and obligations under the agreements that we previously entered into with B&W, and moved to dismiss our patent infringement case on this basis. The District Court denied RJR’s motion to 22 Table of Contents dismiss, and found that B&W had attempted to assign these agreements to Reynolds American Inc. without our consent. In its ruling the District Court did leave open the question of what impact, if any, the combination may have on the future licensing arrangements with RJR, but noted that those considerations did not impact on the claims asserted in the present litigation. Pursuant to our April 2001 agreement with B&W, as amended by letter agreements dated December 4, 2002 and August 14, 2003, B&W loaned us $29 million to fund our purchase of StarCured® tobacco curing barns. B&W also agreed to a 96-month repayment schedule consisting of equal consecutive monthly installments beginning on January 3, 2006. The B&W debt is secured by tobacco leaf inventory and our remaining tobacco curing barns. Once the outstanding loan balance is reduced to $10 million, the collateral, except for our guarantees, will be released. The loan balance was approximately $11.1 million as of December 31, 2008. Previously, B&W granted us a number of concessions under our agreements, including deferring interest and principal payments, consenting to our incurrence of additional indebtedness and agreeing to modify the Hard Tobacco Agreement to allow us to pursue similar licensing arrangements with third parties. RJR’s failure to grant us similar concessions in the future could have a number of adverse consequences, including restricting our pursuit of business opportunities with third parties, limiting our ability to raise funds through debt financing and requiring payment of our obligations in circumstances where we may not have sufficient funds available to do so. Since the combination of B&W and RJR, we have had no operational relationship with RJR, under the agreements entered into with B&W. Given our ongoing patent litigation against RJR, we do not anticipate that we would have the same type of cooperative relationship with RJR as we had with B&W, or that RJR would be inclined to grant concessions similar to those that we received from B&W. We are dependent on the domestic tobacco business. All of our revenues are now derived from sales of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. The market for smokeless products is much smaller than the market for smoked tobacco products, and all of our revenue from smokeless tobacco product sales to date has been derived from sales in the United States, except for de minimis amounts of ARIVA® sold in Bermuda, Turkey and Norway, which were discontinued prior to 2007. Accordingly, we do not currently have access to foreign markets to offset the impact of the declining U.S. tobacco market. The tobacco industry is subject to substantial and increasing regulation with respect to the sale and marketing of its products. In 1996, the FDA promulgated regulations governing the sale and advertising of tobacco products. These regulations were designed primarily to discourage the sale to and consumption by, adolescents and children. The authority of the FDA to promulgate such regulations was challenged in the federal courts. On March 21, 2000, the United States Supreme Court held that the Congress has not given the FDA authority to regulate tobacco products as customarily marketed. Since the decision by the Supreme Court did not preclude Congress from granting the FDA authority to regulate tobacco products, it is unclear whether Congress will act to grant such authority to the FDA in the future. However, legislation that would create such authority has been introduced regularly in Congress since the Supreme Court’s decision. Most recently, bills providing the FDA with regulatory oversight over all tobacco products were introduced in both the U. S. Senate and the House of Representatives in 2007 (S.625 and H.R. 1108). Following committee hearings on both bills, the House of Representatives in 2008 passed its version of the bill by a two-thirds’ majority vote of 326 to 102, but the Senate failed to vote on its version of the bill before the end of the 110th Congress. Both the House and Senate bills would have given FDA authority to impose product standards relating to, among other things, nicotine yields and smoke constituents. This legislation also would have restricted marketing and imposed larger warning labels on tobacco products. On March 4, 2009, the House Energy & Commerce Committee conducted a mark-up of the 2009 version of HR 1108, which in the current Congressional session is known as HR 1256. Representative Steven Buyer (R- IN) introduced an alternative bill during mark-up (HR 1261) as an amendment to HR 1261. Rep. Buyer’s bill focused principally on the role that harm reduction can play in tobacco regulation. That amendment failed, but HR 1256 23 Table of Contents was passed by the Committee by a vote of 39-13 and, accordingly, the bill will be introduced to the entire House of Representatives for a vote. The Senate has not yet introduced an FDA tobacco regulation bill. We believe that consideration of legislation to regulate all tobacco products under the FDA will be a priority for the 111th Congress. The tobacco industry is also subject to a wide range of laws regarding the marketing, sale and taxation (both federal and state) of tobacco products. In addition, there have been increased restrictions imposed on the use of tobacco products at the local, state and federal government levels. These developments generally receive widespread media attention and have proliferated in recent years. Further, additional restrictions on smoked tobacco products could also lead to increased consumer use of smokeless tobacco products, which could in turn lead to further restrictions and scrutiny by regulators of smokeless tobacco products, which could have material and adverse effects on our sales volumes, operating income and cash flows. We have a license from the TTB to manufacture smokeless tobacco products. While we have discontinued our discount cigarette operations subsequent to our entering into a license agreement with Tantus for the exclusive license of our trademarks Sport® , MainStreet® and GSmoke®, we are not precluded from re-entering the discount cigarette market, although we would need to obtain a new license for any such manufacturing. To the extent that we are unable to maintain our current license or to obtain any additional licenses required by the TTB, this could materially and adversely affect our operations. In October 2004, federal legislation was enacted which eliminated the federal tobacco quota system and price support system through an industry funded buyout of tobacco growers and quota holders. Pursuant to the legislation, manufacturers of tobacco products have been assessed $10.1 billion over a ten-year period to compensate tobacco growers and quota holders for the elimination of their quota rights. Under the buyout legislation 96% of the assessments are made against cigarette sales and 4% against the sales of other tobacco products. Accordingly, the impact of the buyout legislation is less significant in relation to the sale of smokeless tobacco products than for cigarettes. However, if sales of our smokeless tobacco products increase substantially, we would have increased obligations under the buyout legislation. The tobacco industry is subject to substantial and increasing federal, state and local excise taxes. The federal excise tax on smokeless tobacco products is substantially lower ($0.585 per pound) than the excise tax for cigarettes, but smokeless tobacco products are subject to substantial and increasing excise taxes. On April 1, 2009 the federal excise tax for snuff will increase to $1.51 per pound. Also, it is possible that increased use of smokeless tobacco products could result in more stringent regulation. A number of states have recently considered increases in state excise taxes on smoked and smokeless tobacco products, and while one state has no excise tax on smokeless tobacco products, that state could choose to institute an excise tax and states that currently have an excise tax could choose to increase their tax rate. Further, state excise tax rates vary considerably. For example, the states of Alabama and North Dakota tax smokeless products at a rate of 12 cents per ounce and 60 cents per ounce, respectively, while the states of North Carolina and Oregon impose an excise tax of 3% and 65% of wholesale cost, respectively. New or increased excise taxes may result in declines in sales volume for the industry generally, and our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products in particular. This result could adversely affect our operating income and cash flows. We have had substantial obligations under state laws adopted under the Master Settlement Agreement. In November 1998, the Settling States entered into the MSA to resolve litigation that had been instituted against the major cigarette manufacturers. We were not named as a defendant in any of the litigation matters and chose not to become a participating manufacturer under the terms of the MSA. As a non-participating manufacturer, we were required to satisfy certain escrow obligations for cigarette sales pursuant to statutes that the MSA required the Settling States to adopt in order for such states to receive the full benefits of the settlement. On March 14, 2007, we sold the rights, title and interest in and to all income from and reversionary interest in our MSA escrow accounts, including our 2006 MSA escrow deposits made in April 2007. Although we sold the rights in and to all income from and reversionary interest in the funds deposited into the MSA escrow accounts 24 Table of Contents for the years up to and including 2006, these MSA escrow funds remain in our name and the principal amount of these accounts will be available to satisfy portions of any state judgments or settlements for the type of claims asserted against the major tobacco manufacturers in the suits that resulted in the negotiation of the MSA. If such claims are successfully asserted in litigation against us by the Settling States the amount of any judgment or settlement could exceed the amount that has been deposited into escrow. In May 2007, we entered into a license agreement with Tantus for the exclusive license of the trademarks used to market our discount cigarettes and in June 2007, we ceased the manufacture and sale of our discount cigarettes. Under the terms of the license agreement with Tantus, we have the ability to manufacture and sell other branded cigarettes and any future cigarette sales would be subject to MSA escrow obligations. We deposited into our MSA escrow accounts approximately $0.4 million during 2008 to cover the sale of cigarettes in the Settling States for the year ended December 31, 2007. Since the sale of smokeless tobacco products are not subject to the MSA escrow obligations, we do not anticipate having any material MSA escrow obligations in the future given the discontinuance of our cigarette operations in June 2007 and our focus on the sale of our smokeless tobacco products. We may be assessed additional sales and use taxes by the Commonwealth of Virginia. In 2002, the Virginia Department of Taxation asserted a Virginia Sales and Use Tax assessment for the period January 1, 1999, through March 31, 2002, against us with respect to our tobacco-curing barns in the amount of $860,115. We applied for a correction of the assessment and a total abatement of the tax on the grounds that our barns are exempt from sales and use taxes under the industrial use and processing exemption and/or the agricultural exemption. In a letter dated October 7, 2004, we received notification from the Commonwealth of Virginia that the Commissioner of Taxation had rejected our request with respect to a sales and use tax assessment and that the sales and use tax assessment plus penalties and interest together, as of October 7, 2004, totaled approximately $988,000. We continue to challenge this assessment and have filed a request for reconsideration with the Commissioner of Taxation, and are prepared to take judicial action if the result of the administrative action is unfavorable. The filing of the request for reconsideration stays any collection of the tax assessment, although interest continues to accrue. While we are optimistic that our request for reconsideration will be accepted based on prior rulings in similar cases, if the assessment is not reversed, we will be required to pay the tax, penalties and interest due. Lawsuits may affect our profitability and we have limited insurance coverage for any damages for which we may become liable. We are not, nor have we ever been, named as a defendant in any legal proceedings involving claims arising out of the sale, distribution, manufacture, development, advertising, marketing and claimed health effects relating to the use of our tobacco products. While we believe that the risk of being named a defendant in such a lawsuit is relatively low, we may be named as a defendant in the future as there has been a noteworthy increase in the number of these cases pending. Punitive damages, often in amounts ranging into the hundreds of millions, or even billions of dollars, are asserted in a number of these cases in addition to compensatory and other damages. In the past, we maintained product liability insurance only with respect to claims that tobacco products manufactured by or for us contained any foreign object, i.e. any object that is not intended to be included in the manufactured product. We currently do not maintain such insurance. The product liability insurance we previously maintained did not cover health-related claims such as those that have been made against the major manufacturers of tobacco products. We currently do not have and do not believe that such insurance coverage for health-related claims can be obtained. In addition, beginning in 2001, we embarked on the test market and distribution of new smokeless tobacco products. If, in the future, we are involved in any actions related to our smokeless tobacco products, we will not have insurance coverage for damages relating to such claims, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition. 25 Table of Contents If we do not effectively manage our growth, we may be unable to successfully develop, market and sell our products. Our future revenue and operating results will depend on our ability to manage the anticipated growth of our business. If we are successful in increasing market acceptance for our products, we will be required to manage substantial volume from our customers. To accommodate any such growth and compete effectively, we will be required to attract, integrate, motivate and retain additional highly skilled sales, technical and other employees. We face competition for these people. Our ability to successfully manage such volume also will be dependent on our ability to scale up our tobacco processing and production operations. There can be no assurance that we can overcome the challenge of scaling up our processing and production operations or that our personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future operations. Any failure to implement and improve our operational, financial and management systems or to attract, integrate, motivate and retain additional employees required by future growth, if any, could have a material and adverse effect on our business and prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may lose our key personnel or fail to attract and retain additional personnel. We are highly dependent upon the continued services of our senior management team for our continued success. The loss of any one of Jonnie R. Williams, our Chief Executive Officer, Paul L. Perito, our Chairman, President and Chief Operating Officer, David M. Dean, our Vice President of Sales and Marketing, Park A. Dodd III, our Chief Financial Officer, Robert E. Pokusa, our General Counsel or Curtis Wright, M.D., MPH, Senior Vice-President Medical/Clinical Director of Rock Creek could have a serious negative impact upon our business and operating results. Our future success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain, on a continuing basis, consulting services from highly qualified scientific, technical, management, financial and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development and operation of our business or that given the operating losses that we have suffered over the past six years that we will have the financial ability to do so. The loss of the services of key personnel or the termination of relationships with independent scientific and medical investigators could have a material and adverse effect on our business. Our directors and executive officers own a large percentage of our voting stock, which allows them to exercise significant control over us, and they may make decisions with which you disagree. Based on stock ownership as of March 9, 2008, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates, own an aggregate of approximately 24.9% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these persons acting together may have the ability to control matters submitted to our stockholders for approval and to control the management and affairs of our company. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, impede a merger, consolidation, or takeover or other business combination, or discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control. This concentration of control could also have a negative effect on the market price of our shares. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. The trading price of the shares of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. Our stock has traded at prices ranging from $5.33 to $0.67 during 2007 and 2008. We receive only limited attention from securities analysts and may experience an imbalance between supply and demand for our common stock resulting from low trading volumes. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control, including the following: • developments related to our patents or other proprietary rights, including developments in our litigation against RJR; 26 Table of Contents • developments in our efforts to market smokeless tobacco products; • announcements of new products, technological innovations, contracts, acquisitions, financings, corporate partnerships or joint ventures by us or our competitors; • our success in developing a pharmaceutical product to treat tobacco-related dependence; • negative regulatory action or regulatory approval with respect to our products or our competitors’ products; and • market conditions for the tobacco industry in general. The stock market has, from time to time, and in particular over the last 12 months, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for small companies, and which have often been unrelated to their operating performance or prospects for future operations. These broad fluctuations may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price of our common stock. On August 24, 2007, we received a NASDAQ Staff Deficiency Letter, indicating that we were not in compliance with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing set forth in NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5), because the bid price per share of the our common stock closed below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days. However, on October 15, 2007, the NASDAQ Global Market notified us that since the minimum closing bid price of our common stock had been at $1.00 per share or greater for ten consecutive trading days, we had regained compliance with the minimum bid price requirement set forth in Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5). We have been in compliance with the minimum bid price rule since that date and this rule has been temporarily suspended by NASDAQ. However, if we are unable to continue to meet the NASDAQ listing requirements, there is a possibility that we could again face delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market, which could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. Our research & development efforts may not result in commercially viable products and may continue to be curtailed by our lack of available research funds. Beginning in 2003 we deferred the initiation and continuation of certain research projects by Star Scientific because of the lack of working capital and have not convened a meeting of our Scientific Advisory Board since that time. Prior to the suspension of these initiatives, our research and development efforts were directed at assessing the impact that products with reduced toxin levels may have on the range of serious health hazards linked with the use of conventional smoked and smokeless tobacco products, as well as encouraging scientists in the U.S. and Europe to pursue TSNA-related research. We also designed but have not initiated several additional scientific studies to determine, among other things, whether a reduction in TSNAs can be equated with a reduction in health risk, to assess biomarker differences that can be equated to levels of various toxins in smoked versus smokeless tobacco, and to measure the impact of the decline in TSNA exposure in low-TSNA smokeless tobacco compared to traditional cigarette products. Since 2007, we have been exploring the development of a range of botanical-based products for the treatment of tobacco dependence, as well as products that would utilize certain MAO agents in tobacco to treat a range of neurological conditions, including Alzheimer’s disease through Rock Creek. In 2008, we completed an initial a study with 49 cigarette smokers to determine the ability of STONEWALL Hard Snuff® to relieve cigarette withdrawal symptoms compared to a conventional OTC nicotine replacement product. Based on the results of this study, we plan to move forward to formulate a GMP botanical-based product and, thereafter to conduct a study to determine the bioequivalence of the proposed botanical-based product against similar nicotine replacement products. Depending upon the results of the bioequivalence study, we plan to seek FDA review for a botanical-based NRT cessation product for use by adult tobacco users who smoke and/or use smokeless tobacco products. We are also continuing to explore the development of other pharmaceutical products with clinical claims, as well as a “relapse prevention product” to assist smokers during nicotine withdrawal and related products. 27 Table of Contents However, given our working capital constraints, our ability to resume the research and development efforts of Star Scientific and to advance Rock Creek’s research and development efforts will depend on our ability to obtain funding, which we may not be able to obtain at reasonable terms, if at all. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our ability to proceed with the initiatives will also largely depend upon the successful outcome of our ongoing patent litigation with RJR. Our inability to renew these initiatives and initiate new research and development efforts could result in a failure to develop new products or to improve our current products, which could have a material and adverse impact on our sales, operating income and cash flows. We are subject to risks inherent in new product development initiatives, particularly with respect to our goal of developing pharmaceutical products to treat tobacco-related dependence and other neurological conditions, which are subject to FDA regulation and approvals, and for potentially related products such as neutraceuticals. We plan to continue to make significant investments in new product development projects. Also, we intend to pursue the development of a pharmaceutical products designed to treat tobacco-related dependence and other neurological conditions and potentially related products such as neutraceuticals through our Rock Creek subsidiary. These initiatives are subject to high levels of risk, uncertainties and contingencies, including the challenges inherent in new product development and regulatory approvals for any new pharmaceutical products that we develop. Products derived from tobacco are subject to multiple, overlapping federal and state regulations. Such products could be classified as tobacco products, neutraceuticals or drug products depending on their chemical composition, intended use and claims. We incorporated Rock Creek in June 2007 to pursue a range of pharmaceutical products, including products that have a botanical, tobacco-based component and related products such as neutraceuticals. However, Rock Creek does not have any pharmaceutical products cleared or approved for commercialization, or any current sources of revenue. The future success of our Rock Creek business will depend on our ability to obtain regulatory clearance or approval to market our products, create product sales, successfully introduce new products, establish our sales force and distribution network, and our access to additional working capital to finance our development initiatives, all of which we may be unable to realize. Even if we develop a pharmaceutical product, we may not obtain or maintain the necessary FDA approvals for our product, or such approvals may be delayed, which would mean that we would be unable to commercially distribute and market our product. The process of seeking regulatory clearance or approval to market a pharmaceutical product is expensive and time consuming and, notwithstanding the effort and expense incurred, clearance or approval is never guaranteed. Also, the FDA has substantial discretion in the drug approval process. We cannot market a drug product in the United States unless it has been approved by the FDA. The FDA approval process involves, among other things, successfully completing clinical trials under an Investigational New Drug Application and obtaining a premarket approval after filing a New Drug Application. Clinical trials are expensive and uncertain. The NDA process would require us to prove the safety and efficacy of our product to the FDA’s satisfaction. If our clinical trials fail to produce sufficient data to support an NDA, it will take us longer to ultimately commercialize a product and generate revenue, or the delay could result in our being unable to do so. Moreover, our development costs will increase if, to achieve sufficient data to support an NDA, we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. Even if we are successful in developing a pharmaceutical product, if we are not successful in obtaining timely clearance or approval of the product from the FDA, we may never be able to generate sufficient revenue to support the successful commercialization of the product. Also any FDA approved product will be subject to continuing review and the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising and promotion of any such product will be subject to extensive regulation. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any written comments from the SEC staff regarding our company’s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or Current Reports on Form 8-K in the 180 days preceding December 31, 2008. 28 Table of Contents 