ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have incurred losses for the past ten years and operating expenses are likely to continue to be greater than operating revenues in the foreseeable future We have incurred operating losses for ten consecutive fiscal years beginning with the year ended December 31, 2003. Our net losses were approximately $(28.3) million for the year ended December 31, 2010, $(38.0) million for the year ended December 31, 2011 and $(22.9) million for the year ended December 31, 2012. Our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2012 was approximately $(231.5) million. For the past five years we have been focusing our efforts on the development of non-tobacco, non-nicotine dietary supplements and potentially pharmaceuticals through Rock Creek. In 2012 our dietary supplement products constituted the vast majority of our net sales. With the decision to cease manufacturing and selling any of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products and to exit from the tobacco business as of December 31, 2012, our future net sales will be derived almost exclusively from our dietary supplements and cosmetic products. Given the level of those sales to date, it would take a substantial increase in sales of these products for operating revenues to exceed expenses. Our future prospects, therefore, are dependent on the expanded distribution and consumer acceptance of our dietary supplement products and cosmetic product. They also are dependent on the continued development of other dietary supplements and pharmaceutical products independently and through alliances with pharmaceutical companies and the licensing of our curing technology and related products, although we do not have any licenses in place for that technology at the present time. Our revenues are currently dependent almost exclusively on sales of our dietary supplement products (in particular, Anatabloc®). For 2012, virtually all our dietary supplement revenues were derived from sales of our Anatabloc ® dietary supplement. Our inability to increase our sales of Anatabloc® or any significant decline in sales for Anatabloc® from current levels (including for any of the reasons discussed in this “Item 1A. Risk Factors”) could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In the future, we may not be able to secure financing necessary to operate and grow our business as planned. The recurring losses generated by our operations continue to impose significant demands on our liquidity. Over the last several years our liquidity demands have been met principally by private placements of our common stock and from the exercise of related warrants and stock options. In 2012 our company received proceeds of approximately $33.9 million through private placements and stock option and warrant exercises. See note 8 to our consolidated financial statements included in “Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules” for further details of these transactions. Absent the exercise of outstanding warrants and options for cash or a substantial improvement in sales and revenues and/or royalties, we believe that the recent funding will support our operations through the first quarter 2014. However, our business and operations may consume resources faster than we anticipate, and depending upon market conditions and the price of our common stock, we may decide to seek additional funds before that time. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our operations or the expansion of our sales and marketing and research and development efforts or take advantage of other opportunities, which could seriously harm our business and operating results. If we issue additional equity securities, existing stockholders will experience dilution. 14 We are responding to subpoenas in a government investigation. In late January and February of this year, our company, directors and others received subpoenas from the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia seeking documents. Our present understanding is that the investigation is principally focused on transactions involving our company’s securities including certain private placements and related party transactions since 2006. We are responding to the subpoenas and intend to cooperate fully with the investigation. In addition, we engaged outside counsel (the international law firm of Chadbourne & Parke, LLP) to conduct an internal investigation of these matters. We are unable to predict the duration of the internal investigation or the United States Attorney's investigation. No conclusion can be drawn at this time as to outcome, or whether these matters will result in any materially adverse impact on our company. While the investigation is pending, we intend to remain focused on our core business activities, including expanding sales of our Anatabloc® product and continuing clinical and related research on our current development schedule. We do not intend, and disclaim any obligation, to provide continuing or updated disclosure regarding these requests and inquiries absent definitive developments unless otherwise required by law. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed and we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. Our future success will depend in part on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technology related to our products, and on successfully defending our patents and other intellectual property against third-party challenges. In particular, this will include obtaining patent protection for the technology relating to the manufacture and uses of anatabine in our dietary supplement and cosmetic products based on the patents issued to date for the improved synthesis of anatabine and the composition used in our CigRx® product, utility applications filed to date and our success in commercially marketing the curing technology for which we have exclusive patent rights under our license arrangement with Regent Court. This will depend in large part on our ability to continue to protect the patents related to the synthesis of anatabine and our anatabine yerba mate composition as well as our low-TSNA tobacco curing technology and related products, to obtain further patent protection for our technology in the United States and other jurisdictions and to operate without infringing upon the patents and proprietary rights of others. We do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek through our existing patents or patent applications that are pending, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable, if challenged. If we fail to obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property, or if any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, others could use our intellectual property without compensating us, resulting in harm to our business. We may also determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a third party’s products or patents in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent interferences or reexaminations. In the event that we seek to enforce any of our owned or exclusively licensed patents against an infringing party, it is likely that the party defending the claim will seek to invalidate the patents we assert. If successful this could result in the loss of the entire patent or the relevant portion of our patent, which would not be limited to any particular party. Any litigation to enforce or defend our patent rights, even if we were to prevail, could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products without infringing any of our patents or other intellectual property rights, or may design around our proprietary technologies. United States patents and patent applications may also be subject to interference proceedings and United States patents may be subject to reexamination proceedings and other post-grant challenges in the PTO. Foreign patents may be subject to opposition or comparable proceedings in the corresponding foreign patent offices’, and those proceedings could result in either loss of the patent or denial of the patent application, or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of the patent or patent application. In addition, such interference, reexamination and opposition proceedings may be costly. Thus, any patents that we own or license from others may provide limited or no protection against competitors. Our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties, may not result in patents being issued. If issued, they may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. 15 We may also rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how to maintain our competitive position, that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, suppliers and others. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached or terminated, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. We intend to seek to create new products and distribution channels and expand existing distribution channels for our dietary supplements and cosmetic products and, for other products developed by Rock Creek. Our future growth is also heavily dependent upon increased consumer acceptance of our existing dietary supplements, Anatabloc® and CigRx®, our cosmetic product Anatabloc® Facial Crème, as well as the licensing of our low-TSNA curing technology and our related products. Our long-term growth strategy includes an increased focus on the sale and marketing of our dietary supplements and cosmetic products, as well as the introduction of other dietary supplements and pharmaceuticals. It is also dependent, to a lesser degree, on the receipt of royalty fees for the licensing of our patented low-TSNA curing technology and related products, although at the present time we do not have any licenses agreements in place for that technology. Additionally, our success will be dependent on our ability to develop other dietary supplements and cosmetic products that may be helpful to consumers in maintaining a healthy metabolism and improved skin appearance, as well as pharmaceutical products. The introduction of pharmaceutical products will require a substantial period of time in order to obtain FDA approval to market such products. As a result, we do not anticipate introducing any pharmaceutical products into the market for the foreseeable future, but will focus on the research and development aspects of a range of pharmaceuticals, in addition to the development of other dietary supplement products and cosmetics. Assuming that we are successful in introducing such products into the market, the success of those products like the success of our other dietary supplements and cosmetic products will depend on the willingness and ability of retail customers to market and sell our products to consumers, as well as our success in developing new distribution channels for those products. If we are not able to continue to market our dietary supplement and cosmetic products through our e-commerce initiatives or if retail customers were to reduce the quantity of the products they currently sell or stop selling our products, or if we are unable to open distribution channels for our new products, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. It is not certain whether our dietary supplements or our cosmetic products will be accepted by the market in sufficient volume to support our operations. Consumers may decide not to purchase our products due to taste or other preferences, including a preference for our competitors’ products. There can be no assurance that in the future our competitors will not succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective than the products we develop or that would render our products obsolete or non-competitive. Further, our decision to exit from the tobacco business as of December 31, 2012, may negatively affect our ability to license our patented curing technology and related products. We may not be successful in expanding the market for our Anatabloc®, Anatabloc® Facial Crème and our CigRx® products. We introduced Anatabloc® as a nutraceutical, dietary supplement for anti-inflammatory support in August 2011. As such, Anatabloc® competes with other dietary supplements that are marketed for anti-inflammatory support and for use in maintaining a healthy metabolism. While Anatabloc® is intended to support the body’s natural anti-inflammatory properties, there are a number of dietary supplements, prescription and non-prescription products that are marketed for pain relief that, in many cases, may be due to excessive inflammation. While Anatabloc® is not a pain relief medication, it is possible that by providing anti-inflammatory support, Anatabloc® may be viewed as fungible with these products to the extent that the use of Anatabloc® supports the body’s natural regulation of inflammation. In August 2010, we introduced, CigRx® as a tobacco alternative designed to temporarily reduce the desire to smoke. CigRx® is a dietary supplement product that allows individuals to use a non-tobacco, non-nicotine product in situations where they are not in a position to use tobacco or wish to have an alternative to a tobacco product. CigRx® competes with smokeless tobacco products in the “When You Can’t Smoke®” market. Also, to the extent that the FDA approves cessation products for nicotine maintenance, such products would compete with CigRx® in the future. Although FDA approved smoking cessation products are not labeled or approved for tobacco maintenance, it appears that those products may be used for that purpose and thus compete with CigRx® at the present time. Currently our CigRx® product does not have an established market as a tobacco alternative. We currently market Anatabloc®, Anatabloc® Facial Crème and CigRx® through our interactive websites and customer service centers. We also market Anatabloc® through GNC’s company-owned stores and franchised retail locations as well as through GNC’s website. Further, we market CigRx® at selected retail locations in the Richmond, VA area and in the Northwest and Northeast, although sales of CigRx® have been de minimis since the introduction of Anatabloc®. Our success in marketing Anatabloc®, Anatabloc® Facial Crème and CigRx® will be dependent on consumer acceptance of these products and our ability to have the products sold to consumers through our websites and other avenues of distribution. If we are not able to attract interest in these products at the consumer level, expand on distribution channels or compete with other companies marketing alternatives to our dietary supplements and cosmetic products our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 16 We may face disruptions relating to the manufacture and sale of Anatabloc®, Anatabloc® Facial Crème and CigRx® based on the fact that we have arranged for third parties to manufacture and distribute these products. In order to facilitate the launch of Anatabloc®, Anatabloc® Facial Crème and CigRx® and limit capital expenditures, we have outsourced the manufacturing, storage, order processing and delivery of these products through contracts and arrangements with a number of third-party contractors. In a number of cases our arrangement with our contractors are on a sole source basis. If our contractors experience delays or disruptions that could adversely impact on their ability to meet our manufacturing and distribution needs. In the event that our third-party contractors are unable to meet our needs, we would need to find alternative sources for the manufacturing and/or distribution of Anatabloc®, Anatabloc® Facial Crème and CigRx®, which may be difficult to obtain in a timely and cost effective manner, or at all. Also, if sales volumes for Anatabloc®, Anatabloc® Facial Crème and CigRx® increase substantially over a short period of time, our current contractors may have difficulty meeting our manufacturing and supply demands. In the event we are not able to obtain adequate amounts of Anatabloc®, Anatabloc® Facial Crème and CigRx® or if we are not able to supply product to consumers on a timely basis, our customers may seek to fulfill their supply needs by purchasing competing products, which, in turn, would reduce our market share and ability to successfully commercialize Anatabloc®, Anatabloc® Facial Crème and CigRx®, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our research and development efforts may not result in commercially viable products and may be curtailed by our lack of available research funds. Our company’s long-term focus is the research, development, manufacturing and licensing of technology that can promote maintenance of a healthy metabolism and, more generally, assist consumers in maintaining a healthy lifestyle. We have pursued these objectives through the production of our nutraceutical, dietary supplements Anatabloc® and CigRx® and our cosmetic product Anatabloc® Facial Crème and by our ongoing research and development efforts that are focused on the anti-inflammatory aspects of anatabine and related MAO agents in addressing a range of conditions, including Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, multiple sclerosis, schizophrenia and depression. Our current and future product development initiatives will be substantially dependent on our ability to continue our research initiatives and to obtain the funding necessary to support these initiatives. Our inability to continue these initiatives and initiate new research and development efforts could result in a failure to develop new products or to improve upon existing products, which could have a material and adverse impact on our sales, operating income and cash flows. We have many potentially dilutive derivative securities outstanding and the issuance of these securities as well as the future sales of our common stock could have a dilutive effect on current stockholders. At March 5, 2013, we had outstanding options granted to directors, employees and consultants to purchase approximately 17,695,000 shares of our common stock, with a weighted-average exercise price of $2.73 per share, of which options for 14,360,000 shares were exercisable at March 5, 2013. We also have outstanding warrants, which are currently exercisable into 16,492,501 shares of our common stock, with a weighted-average exercise price of $1.79 per share. Exercise of outstanding stock options or warrants would cause dilution, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we issue additional shares of our common stock for sale (which has historically been our principal means of financing our operations) in connection with future financings, our stockholders could experience further dilution. See Note 8, “Stockholders’ Equity”, to our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to our outstanding securities that may become exercisable for future shares of our common stock. We may lose our key personnel or fail to attract and retain additional personnel. We are highly dependent upon the continued services of our senior management team for our continued success. The loss of any one of Jonnie R. Williams, our Chief Executive Officer, Paul L. Perito, our Chairman, President and Chief Operating Officer, David M. Dean, our Vice President of Sales and Marketing, Park A. Dodd III, our Chief Financial Officer, Robert E. Pokusa, our General Counsel or Curtis Wright, M.D., MPH, Senior Vice-President Medical/Clinical Director of Rock Creek could have a serious negative impact on our business and operating results. The employment agreements for Messrs. Williams, Perito, Dodd, Dean and Pokusa are on a month-to-month basis. Our future success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain, on a continuing basis, consulting services from highly qualified scientific, technical, management, financial and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development and operation of our business or that given the operating losses we have suffered over the past ten years we will have the financial ability to do so. The loss of the services of key personnel or the termination of relationships with independent scientific and medical investigators could have a material and adverse effect on our business. 17 We are subject to risks inherent in new product development initiatives, particularly with respect to our goal of developing pharmaceutical products to treat certain conditions which are subject to FDA regulation and approval, and for related products such as dietary supplements and cosmetics. Our future success is substantially dependent upon implementation of our business strategy related to our new product initiatives. Since the incorporation of Rock Creek in 2007, we have been focused on utilizing certain alkaloids found in the Solanacea family of plants, such as potatoes, tomatoes and eggplants, initially to address issues related to the desire to smoke or use other tobacco products. More recently, we have been focusing on the anti-inflammatory aspects of one of those alkaloids, anatabine. We believe our research and development efforts relating to the anatabine alkaloid have positioned us to utilize our technology to develop a range of non-nicotine dietary supplements, cosmetics and related pharmaceutical products that could be beneficial in maintaining a healthy metabolism and in treating a variety of diseases and conditions. The ongoing product development initiatives of Rock Creek are subject to high levels of risk, uncertainties and contingencies, including the challenges inherent in new product development, FDA regulatory approval for any new pharmaceutical products that we develop and FDA regulatory oversight for dietary supplements and cosmetics. DSHEA, provides the FDA with authority over the production and marketing of dietary supplements. In certain cases DSHEA also requires notification to the FDA before a company begins to market a dietary supplement and, if structure or function claims are made for a product in the product labeling, notification of such claims within thirty days of the introduction of the product into commerce. DSHEA also implements significant manufacturing and marketing requirements, including that dietary supplements be manufactured under “good manufacturing practices” and that the label, labeling and advertising for such products meet specific requirements set forth in the statute and implementing regulations. DSHEA does not require prior approval by the FDA for the introduction of dietary supplements into the market, but does require that the dietary supplement products being developed by Rock Creek comply with the requirements of DSHEA prior to and after their introduction into commerce. If products are manufactured and sold as dietary supplements it is possible that FDA may challenge the status of a product classification. FDA may also challenge the types of claims made for a dietary supplement or its indications for use and the FTC also has jurisdiction over advertising of dietary supplements and other OTC products. In marketing our Anatabloc® and CigRx® dietary supplements, we will have to comply with the requirements of DSHEA, which could impact the time required to fully commercialize those products. We do not have any pharmaceutical products cleared or approved for commercialization and we do not expect to obtain approval for any drug products for the foreseeable future. The success of any future pharmaceutical, and to a more limited extent, our dietary supplement, business will depend on our ability to obtain regulatory clearance or approval to market new drug products and our ability to comply with statutory and regulatory requirements for any dietary supplement products, create product sales, successfully introduce new products, establish our sales force and distribution network, and obtain access to additional working capital to finance our development initiatives, all of which we may be unable to realize. Additionally, if any dietary supplement developed by us is determined to be a pharmaceutical product, as opposed to a dietary supplement, the product would need to be submitted to the FDA for approval as a new drug prior to it being sold in the United States. Even if we develop a viable pharmaceutical product, we may not obtain or maintain the necessary FDA approvals for our product, or such approvals may be delayed, which would mean that we would be unable to commercially distribute and market our product. The process of seeking regulatory clearance or approval to market a pharmaceutical product is expensive and time consuming and, notwithstanding the effort and expense incurred, clearance or approval is never guaranteed. Also, the FDA has substantial discretion in the drug approval process. We cannot market a drug product in the United States unless it has been approved by the FDA. The FDA approval process involves, among other things, successfully completing clinical trials under an IND and obtaining a premarket approval after filing an NDA. Clinical trials are expensive and uncertain. The NDA process would require us to prove the safety and efficacy of our product to the FDA’s satisfaction. If our clinical trials fail to produce sufficient data to support an NDA, it will take us longer to ultimately commercialize a product and generate revenue, or the delay could result in our being unable to do so. Moreover, our development costs will increase if, to achieve sufficient data to support an NDA, we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. Even if we are successful in developing a pharmaceutical product, if we are not successful in obtaining timely clearance or approval of the product from the FDA, we may never be able to generate sufficient revenue to support the successful commercialization of the product. Also, any FDA approved product will be subject to continuing review and the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising and promotion of any such product will be subject to extensive regulation. The FDA also has jurisdiction over cosmetic products and claims made for such products. While premarket approval is not required prior to the marketing of cosmetic products, the ingredients in such products must be recognized as being safe and appropriate for use in cosmetics. In developing and marketing our cosmetic products we will be required to comply with the requirements relating to the manufacturing and marketing of such products and will be subject to continuing review by the FDA with respect to the labeling, packaging and promotion of such products. 18 We have limited retail or independent distributors selling our dietary supplements Anatabloc® and CigRx® and our cosmetic, Anatabloc® Facial Crème, and a loss or material reduction in our existing distribution channels could result in reduced sales of our products. Anatabloc®, which is intended to provide anti-inflammatory support, is currently being sold through our interactive website, a customer service center and on a consignment basis through GNC, a retailer of dietary supplements. GNC initially sold Anatabloc® through its online store and, beginning in late March 2012, GNC began carrying Anatabloc® at its company-owned stores and franchised retail locations. Initially, marketing of Anatabloc® was directed toward physicians and other healthcare professionals. More recently we have been focusing our marketing efforts on athletes and other groups of individuals who regularly deal with issues relating to inflammation. Through Rock Creek we have also been developing extensions of our Anatabloc® product line. We introduced an unflavored version of Anatabloc® in the second quarter 2012 and introduced into the market Anatabloc® Facial Crème in September, 2012 as a cosmetic to improve the appearance of the skin. Our success in marketing our dietary supplements and our cosmetic products will be dependent upon the willingness and ability of retail distributors to market and sell our products to consumers, as well as our success in developing new distribution channels for our dietary supplements and cosmetic products. If our distribution arrangement with GNC terminated or if GNC reduced the quantity of our products it carries or promotes, or if we are unable to open new distribution channels for our products, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Independent retailers and distributors generally purchase products from us on a purchase-order basis and do not have long-term contracts with us. Consequently, with little or no notice and without penalty, our independent retail and independent distributors may terminate their relationships with us or materially reduce the level of their purchases of our products. If this were to occur with one or more retail or independent distributors, who purchase significant quantities of our products, it may be difficult for us to establish substitute relationships in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on domestic sales of our Anatabloc® and CigRx® dietary supplements and for sales of our Anatabloc® Facial Crème cosmetic product. Virtually all of our revenues beginning January 1, 2013 are derived from sales of our dietary supplements, Anatabloc® and CigRx® and our cosmetic product Anatabloc® Facial Crème. While Anatabloc® is available for shipment to numerous foreign countries outside the United States, sales outside the United States have been limited and we do not have any direct distribution arrangements for Anatabloc® outside of the U.S. Prior to January 1, 2013, we also had been deriving revenue from the sale of our dissolvable tobacco products, although sales of those products had been de minimis over the last several years. However, we discontinued the manufacture and sale of any tobacco products as of December 31, 2012. If we experience product recalls, we may incur significant and unexpected costs and our business reputation could be materially adversely affected. We may be exposed to product recalls and adverse public relations if our dietary supplement products or our cosmetic products are alleged to cause illness or injury, or if we are alleged to have violated governmental regulations. A product recall could result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, which could reduce operating profits and cash flow. In addition, a product recall may require significant management time and attention and may adversely impact on the value of our brands. Product recalls may lead to greater scrutiny by federal or state regulatory agencies and increased litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have had substantial obligations under state laws adopted under the Master Settlement Agreement. In November 1998, 46 states and the District of Columbia, or the Settling States, entered into the Master Settlement Agreement, or MSA, to resolve litigation that had been instituted against the major tobacco manufacturers. We did not join the MSA and while we manufactured and sold cigarette products we were required to satisfy certain escrow obligations pursuant to statutes that the MSA required the Settling States to adopt in order for such states to receive the full benefits of the settlement. We discontinued the sale of any cigarette products in June 2007 and we sold the rights, title and interest in and to all income from and reversionary interest in our MSA escrow accounts in May 2007. Although we sold the rights in and to all income from and reversionary interest in the funds deposited into the MSA escrow accounts for sales through 2006, these MSA escrow funds remain in our name and the principal amount of these accounts will be available to satisfy portions of any state judgments or settlements for the type of claims asserted against the major tobacco manufacturers in the suits that resulted in the negotiation of the MSA, notwithstanding that we stopped selling cigarettes in 2007 and exited from the tobacco industry completely as of December 31, 2012. Moreover, if such claims are successfully asserted in litigation against us in the future, the claims could exceed the amounts that have been deposited into escrow under the MSA which could adversely affect our operating income and cash flows. 19 We may be assessed additional sales and use taxes by the Commonwealth of Virginia. In 2002, the Virginia Department of Taxation asserted a Virginia Sales and Use Tax assessment for the period January 1, 1999, through March 31, 2002, against us with respect to our tobacco-curing barns in the amount of $860,115. We applied for a correction of the assessment and a total abatement of the tax on the grounds that our barns are exempt from sales and use taxes under the industrial use and processing exemption and/or the agricultural exemption. In a letter dated October 7, 2004, our company received notification from the Commonwealth of Virginia that an adverse decision had been made by the Commissioner of Taxation with respect to the sales and use tax assessment previously issued to our company. On August 10, 2010 the Commonwealth of Virginia responded to our request for reconsideration of the state’s sales and use tax assessment with respect to our tobacco curing barns. The Commonwealth disagreed with our position that the barns are part of the manufacturing process and, therefore, exempt from sales and use taxes under the industrial use and processing exemption and/or the agricultural exemption, concluding that the barns are taxable under the Commonwealth’s sales tax laws and regulation. We disagree with the ruling by the Commissioner and in July 2011 we filed a lawsuit in the Circuit Court for Mecklenburg County, VA seeking a correction of this assessment. The Commonwealth has filed an answer in that action asserting that the assessment was correct. The matter is currently pending. The sales and use tax assessment plus penalties and interest together, as of December 31, 2012, totaled approximately $1.7 million. Interest will continue to accrue during our continued pursuit of a resolution of this matter. Lawsuits may affect our profitability and we have limited insurance coverage for any damages for which we may become liable. Prior to the introduction of Anatabloc®, Anatabloc® Facial Crème and CigRx® we obtained product liability insurance for these products as dietary supplements and as a cosmetic. This insurance covers claims arising from product defects or claims arising out of the sale, distribution and marketing of our Anatabloc®, Anatabloc® Facial Crème and CigRx® products. There have been no claims asserted with respect to the manufacture, sale or use of these products to date. If any such claims are asserted in the future and ultimately result in liability that exceeds the limits of our insurance coverage, this could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition. We are not, nor have we ever been, named as a defendant in any legal proceedings involving claims arising out of the sale, distribution, manufacture, development, advertising, marketing and claimed health effects relating to the use of our tobacco products. While we exited the tobacco business as of December 31, 2012, we could have claims asserted against us in connection with our prior manufacture and sale of such products. While we believe the risk of being named a defendant in such a lawsuit is relatively low, we could be named as a defendant in such litigation, as there has been a noteworthy increase in the number of these cases pending. Punitive damages, often in amounts ranging into the hundreds of millions, or even billions of dollars, are asserted in a number of these cases in addition to compensatory and other damages. We currently do not have and do not believe that insurance coverage for health-related claims arising from the use of tobacco products can be obtained. If, in the future, we are named as a defendant in any actions related to our smoked or smokeless tobacco products, we will not have insurance coverage for damages relating to any such claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. If we do not effectively manage our growth, we may be unable to successfully develop, market and sell our products. Our future revenue and operating results will depend on our ability to manage the anticipated growth of our business. If we are successful in increasing market acceptance for our products, we will be required to manage substantial volume from our customers. To accommodate any such growth and compete effectively, we will be required to attract, integrate, motivate and retain additional highly skilled sales, technical and other employees. We face competition for these people. Also, we will have to maintain sufficient capacity for the contract manufacturing of our dietary supplement and cosmetic products. There can be no assurance that we can overcome the challenge of scaling up our processing and production operations, that our personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future operations or that we will be able to increase or secure additional capacity through third-party contractors for the manufacturing, sale and distribution of our Anatabloc®, Anatabloc® Facial Crème and CigRx® products. Any failure to implement and improve our operational, financial and management systems, to attract, integrate, motivate and retain additional employees required by future growth, if any, or to secure any needed capacity through third party contractors, if required, could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our directors and executive officers own a large percentage of our voting stock, which allows them to exercise significant control over us, and they may make decisions with which you disagree. Based on stock ownership as of March 5, 2013, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates, own an aggregate of approximately 7.3% of our currently issued and outstanding common stock. As a result, these persons acting together may have the ability to influence matters submitted to our stockholders for approval and to control the management and affairs of our company. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, impede a merger, consolidation, or takeover or other business combination, or discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control. This concentration of control could also have a negative effect on the market price of our shares. 20 Levels of market volatility have been unprecedented in recent years. The capital and credit markets experienced volatility and disruption at unprecedented levels in 2008 and 2009, which continued to a lesser extent in the period 2010 through 2012. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If market disruption and volatility worsen in the future, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. The trading price of the shares of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. Our stock has traded at prices ranging from $1.56 to $5.05 for the period January 1, 2012 to March 5, 2013. We receive only limited attention from securities analysts and may experience an imbalance between supply and demand for our common stock resulting from our trading volumes. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control, including the following: ● our success in marketing our Anatabloc® and CigRx® dietary supplements and Anatabloc® Facial Crème cosmetic and developing related dietary supplements designed to assist in maintaining a healthy metabolism as well as pharmaceutical products; ● developments related to our patents or other proprietary rights; ● developments in our efforts to license our low-TSNA curing technology and related products; ● announcements of new products, technological innovations, contracts, acquisitions, financings, corporate partnerships or joint ventures by us or our competitors; ● negative regulatory action or regulatory approval with respect to our products or our competitors’ products; and ● market conditions in the dietary supplement, pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries in general. The stock market from time to time, and in particular over the last several years, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for small companies, and which have often been unrelated to their operating performance or prospects for future operations. These broad fluctuations may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any written comments from the SEC staff regarding our company’s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or Current Reports on Form 8-K in the 180 days preceding December 31, 2012. 