ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have incurred losses for the past five years and we expect operating expenses to continue to be greater than operating revenues in the foreseeable future. We have incurred operating losses for five consecutive fiscal years beginning with the year ended December 31, 2003. Our net losses were approximately $(25.1) million for the year ended December 31, 2005, $(12.3) million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and $(41.5) million for the year ended December 31, 2007. 17 Table of Contents Our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2007 was approximately $(101.3) million. Additionally, a majority of our historical operating revenues have been derived from sales of our discount cigarettes. However, in May 2007, we entered into a license agreement with Tantus for the exclusive license of our trademarks MainStreet®, Sport® and GSmoke®, in return for licensing fees during the seven-year term of the license agreement and beyond, if the license is renewed. Although we retain the right to manufacture and sell other branded cigarettes, we discontinued the manufacture and sale of our discount cigarettes in June 2007 and are focusing our efforts on the sale of low-TSNA dissolvable smokeless tobacco products and the licensing of the related technology, as opposed to cigarettes. Accordingly, we have accounted for our cigarette operations as “discontinued operations” in our consolidated financial statements beginning with the second quarter of 2007. During 2007, we also entered into two substantial non-recurring transactions. In March 2007, we entered into an agreement whereby we received a payment of approximately $11.6 million in return for all rights to interest paid on our MSA escrow funds, any releases of the escrow principal for any overpayments, and, if those funds are not used to satisfy judgments or settlements by the Settling States, all releases of the principal from the escrow funds on a rolling basis after twenty-five years. Additionally, in March 2007 we sold approximately 990 of our tobacco curing barns for approximately $11.6 million. Each of the sale of our interests in the MSA escrow funds and the 990 tobacco curing barns are non-recurring transactions that accounted for $23.4 million of our $41.5 million net loss for the year ended December 31, 2007. Becoming profitable will depend on our ability to generate and sustain increased revenue levels in future periods. This will largely be dependent on the distribution and consumer acceptance of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products as well as the continued development of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, independently and through alliances with other tobacco manufacturers, and our ability to begin generating significant revenues through royalties from the our patented tobacco curing process. These efforts may be more costly than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset our higher operating expenses associated with these initiatives especially given the loss of revenues from the discontinuation of our discount cigarette business. Additionally, our ability to generate revenues through royalty payments from the licensing of our low-TSNA technology will also be dependent upon the successful completion of our ongoing patent infringement lawsuit against RJR, which is uncertain at this time. In the future, we may not be able to secure financing necessary to operate and grow our business as planned. The recurring losses generated by our operations continue to impose significant demands on our liquidity. In 2007, we generated $2.2 million, through private placements of our common stock and warrants and through the exercise of previously issued warrants by warrant holders. Additionally, on March 13, 2008 and March 14, 2008, we entered into agreements for the sale of shares of our stock for gross proceeds of $12.5 million, through private placements of our common stock and warrants. We believe that the proceeds from these transactions together with cash on hand, cash equivalents and the commitment of up to $2.0 million from Mr. Williams our Chief Executive Officer should be sufficient to support our operations through March 2009. For additional information on these transactions, see “Item 9B—Other Events.” Absent the successful completion of our ongoing patent infringement lawsuit against RJR, the exercise of outstanding warrants, a substantial improvement in revenues and/or royalties from the license of our low-TSNA technology, we believe that it will be necessary to pursue additional sources of funds by the first quarter 2009. However, our business and operations may consume resources faster than we anticipate, and depending upon market conditions and the price of our common stock, we may decide to seek additional funds before that time. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund the expansion of our sales and marketing and research and development efforts or take advantage of other opportunities, which could seriously harm our business and operating results. If we issue additional equity securities, stockholders will experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our common stock. 18 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed and we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. Our future success will depend in part on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technologies contained in our products, and on successfully defending our patents and other intellectual property against third-party challenges. In particular, our success in commercially exploiting our licensed tobacco curing technology and low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, and our development of a pharmaceutical product to treat tobacco-related dependence, depends in large part on our ability to protect the patents related to our low-TSNA technology for which we are the exclusive licensee, to obtain further patent protection for this technology in the United States and other jurisdictions, and to operate without infringing upon the patents and proprietary rights of others. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our proprietary rights. In particular, we have been prosecuting patent infringement claims against RJR in the United States District court for the District of Maryland with respect to two patents used in our low-TSNA tobacco technology. In January 2007, the District Court ruled that the two patents that are at issue in our patent infringement litigation against RJR were invalid on the basis that the term “anaerobic condition” is indefinite. In June 2007, the District Court issued a decision granting RJR’s defense of inequitable conduct. Those decisions and a related ruling on priority date have been appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. A hearing on the appeal was held on March 7, 2008 and we are awaiting a decision on the appeal. Unless the decisions of the District Court are reversed on appeal, we will not be able to enforce or license the two patents for producing low-TSNA tobacco that are at issue in our patent litigation against RJR, which will have a material adverse affect on our operations and future development of our products. We do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable, if challenged. We also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies. If we fail to obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property, or if any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, others could use our intellectual property without compensating us, resulting in harm to our business. We may also determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a third party’s products or patents in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent interferences or reexaminations. In the event that we seek to enforce any of our owned or exclusively licensed patents against an infringing party, it is likely that the party defending the claim will seek to invalidate the patents we assert. If successful this could result in the loss of the entire patent or the relevant portion of our patent, which would not be limited to any particular party. Any litigation to enforce or defend our patent rights, even if we were to prevail, could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products without infringing any of our patent or other intellectual property rights, or may design around our proprietary technologies. U.S. patents and patent applications may also be subject to interference proceedings and U.S. patents may be subject to reexamination proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and foreign patents may be subject to opposition or comparable proceedings in the corresponding foreign patent offices, which proceedings could result in either loss of the patent or denial of the patent application, or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of, the patent or patent application. In addition, such interference, reexamination and opposition proceedings may be costly. Thus, any patents that we own or license from others may provide limited or no protection against competitors. Our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties, may not result in patents being issued. If issued, they may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. We may also rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how to maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, suppliers and others. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached or terminated, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. 19 Table of Contents Our growth strategy anticipates that we will create new products and distribution channels and expand existing distribution channels for our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. Our future growth is also heavily dependent upon increased consumers acceptance of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, as well as an increased demand to license the related technology. If we are unable to effectively manage these initiatives, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. Our long-term growth strategy includes an increased focus on the sales and marketing of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products and our receipt of royalty fees for the licensing of our patented technology for producing low-TSNA tobacco. However, to date sales of our smokeless tobacco products, and our ability to derive revenue from the licensing of our low-TSNA technology, have been de minimis. Beginning in September 2001, we introduced three new smokeless tobacco products, Stonewall® moist and dry snuffs and ARIVA® hard tobacco cigalett® pieces. In the second quarter of 2003, we began a commercial test market of a new, non-fermented spit-free® “hard tobacco” product for moist snuff users, called STONEWALL Hard Snuff®. Given the Company’s decision to focus on dissolvable smokeless tobacco products, the Company has discontinued manufacturing Stonewall® moist snuff and is not actively marketing Stonewall dry snuff. Additionally, our success is dependent upon the willingness and ability of retail customers to market and sell our products to consumers, as well as our success in developing new distribution channels for our very low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. If our significant retail customers or independent distributors were to reduce the quantity of any of our products they sell or stop selling our products, or if we are unable to open new distribution channels for our products, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. To date, sales of our dissolvable smokeless products have been slower than expected. We believe this is due in part to the lack of consumer awareness of ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® and the lack of sufficient capital to increase consumer awareness and acceptance of those products. It is not certain whether our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products will be accepted by the market in sufficient volume to support our operations. Adult tobacco users may decide not to purchase our products due to taste or other preferences, including a preference for our competitor’s products, or because of the extensive health warnings contained on the packaging for our products. Further, an inability to successfully increase consumer awareness of and demand for our very low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products would negatively affect our ability to license our patented technology for producing low-TSNA tobacco. This accordingly would materially diminish our ability to derive royalty fees from the license of this technology. If we are unable to license our patented technology for producing low-TSNA tobacco, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our efforts to successfully market ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® to adult tobacco users will also require the expenditure of substantial funds that we will need to obtain from external financing, the availability of which cannot be assured, and ultimately these products may not be accepted in the national marketplace. If we are not successful in our efforts to offer low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products to adults as alternatives to cigarettes and other smokeless products, or to generate revenue through the license of the related technology to which we are the exclusive licensee, we will not have sufficient sales volumes to support our operations. The tobacco industry is highly competitive, and our competitors may develop technology for the production of low-TSNA tobacco that does not infringe on the technology to which we are the exclusive licensee, or they may develop technology for low-TSNA tobacco or other cigarette alternative products that could make our technology obsolete. Virtually all flue-cured tobacco grown in the United States since 2001 has been cured in a manner to reduce the levels of TSNAs. If our competitors produce low-TSNA tobacco that does not infringe on the technology to which we are the exclusive licensee, or develop other tobacco products with less toxins that can compete with our very low-TSNA products, this could adversely affect our operating income and cash flows. 20 Table of Contents The tobacco industry is highly competitive. STONEWALL Hard Snuff® competes with major smokeless manufacturers, and ARIVA® competes with traditional cigarette manufacturers because ARIVA® is positioned as an alternative to cigarettes in situations where adult cigarette users cannot or choose not to smoke. Those companies generally have substantially greater financial and operating resources than we do. Also, these companies have a more established presence in the smokeless tobacco industry than we do. Certain of the major cigarette makers are marketing alternative cigarette products. For example, Philip Morris has developed an alternative cigarette called Accord in which the tobacco is heated rather than burned. RJR has developed an alternative cigarette called Eclipse in which the tobacco is primarily heated, with only a small amount of tobacco burned. Vector Tobacco Inc. has developed a cigarette offered in several packings with declining levels of nicotine, called Quest. Further, in 2006 and 2007, both Philip Morris and Reynolds American introduced into test market smokeless tobacco products designed to provide alternatives to cigarettes, and other smokeless tobacco manufactures have introduced products that claim to have reduced levels of carcinogens. If these initiatives are successful or if our competitors develop new technology for low-TSNA tobacco for use in smokeless tobacco products, we will be subject to increased competition for market share and our current technology for the production of low-TSNA tobacco could become obsolete. Sales of tobacco products have been declining, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and cash flows. As a result of restrictions on advertising and promotions; funding of smoking prevention campaigns; increases in regulation and excise taxes; a decline in the social acceptability of smoking, and other factors, the overall U.S. market for cigarettes has generally been declining in terms of volume of sales, and is expected to continue to decline. While the sales of smokeless tobacco products have been increasing over the last several years, the smokeless tobacco market is substantially smaller than the cigarette market. Prior to our exit from the discount cigarette business, we experienced a similar decline in sales of our discount cigarette products, and this downward trend may adversely impact our ability to sell and market our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, particularly as alternatives to cigarettes. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We may face delays in obtaining very low-TSNA tobacco or other raw materials to adequately manufacture our products. As a result of the discontinuance of our business relationship with B&W, and the ongoing burden and expense of the pending patent litigation with RJR, during 2007 we sold approximately 990 tobacco curing barns used for the production of our low-TSNA StarCured® tobacco. We currently continue to maintain 37 StarCured® tobacco curing barns, which we believe to be sufficient to meet our need for low-TSNA StarCured® tobacco in the immediate future. However, we cannot be assured that we will have sufficient availability to curing barns to meet future demand for our low-TSNA tobacco, particularly if the sales volumes of our very low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products substantially increase over a short period of time. Further, in the event that we are unable to obtain adequate amounts of StarCured® tobacco and other raw materials to meet product demands, our customers may seek to fulfill their supply needs by purchasing competing brands, which in turn would reduce our market share and ability to successfully commercialize our very low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our retail customers or independent distributors, and a loss or material reduction in their business with us could result in reduced sales of our products. Our success is dependent upon the willingness and ability of retail customers to market and sell our products to consumers, as well as our success in developing new channels for our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. If any of our significant retail customers or independent distributors were to reduce the quantity of the products we sell, or to stop selling our products, or if we are unable to open new distribution channels for our products, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Our retail customers and independent distributors generally purchase products from us on a purchase-order basis and do not have long-term contracts with us. Consequently, with little or no notice and without penalty, our retail customers and independent distributors may terminate their relationship with us or materially reduce the level of their purchases of our products. If this were to occur with one or more retail customers or independent distributors who purchase significant quantities of our products, it may be difficult for us to establish substitute relationships in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have many potentially dilutive derivative securities outstanding and the issuance of these securities as well as the future sales of our common stock would have a dilutive effect on current stockholders. At December 31, 2007, we had outstanding options granted to directors, employees and consultants to purchase approximately 5,658,200 shares of our common stock, with a weighted-average exercise price of $2.56 per share, of which options for 5,298,200 shares were exercisable at December 31, 2007. We also have outstanding warrants, which are currently exercisable into 5,252,513 shares of our common stock, with a weighted-average exercise price of $2.20 per share. The issuance of these shares will cause dilution which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Additionally, if we issue additional shares of our common stock for sale in future financings, our stockholders would experience further dilution. The combination transaction between RJR and B&W may impact negatively upon us. On July 30, 2004, RJR and B&W, the second and third largest cigarette manufacturers, completed the combination of their United States tobacco businesses to create a new publicly traded holding company, Reynolds American Inc. Prior to this combination, we had been party to multiple substantial commercial relationships with B&W for a number of years, including licensing and royalty agreements relating to the purchase of StarCured® tobacco and other low-TSNA tobacco and the financing of our StarCured® tobacco curing barns. Additionally, we are currently involved in significant patent infringement litigation with RJR with respect to certain of our patents related to the production of low-TSNA tobacco. During the pending patent litigation described above, RJR took the position that the new operating entity resulting from the combination of RJR and B&W, assumed all of the rights and obligations under the agreements that we previously entered into with B&W, and moved to dismiss our patent infringement case on this basis. The Court denied RJR’s motion to dismiss, and found that B&W had attempted to assign these agreements to Reynolds American Inc. without our consent. In its ruling the Court did leave open the question of what impact, if any, the combination may have on the future licensing arrangements with RJR, but noted that those considerations did not impact on the claims asserted in the present litigation. Pursuant to the Restated Master Agreement, as amended by letter agreements dated December 4, 2002 and August 14, 2003, B&W loaned us $29 million to fund our purchase of StarCured® tobacco curing barns. B&W also agreed to a 96 month repayment schedule consisting of equal consecutive monthly installments beginning on January 3, 2006. The B&W debt is secured by tobacco leaf inventory and our remaining tobacco curing barns. Once the outstanding loan balance is reduced to $10 million, the collateral, except for our guarantees, will be released by B&W. The loan balance was approximately $12.7 million as of December 31, 2007. Previously, B&W granted us a number of concessions under our agreements, including deferring interest and principal payments, consenting to our incurrence of additional indebtedness and agreeing to modify the Hard Tobacco Agreement to allow us to pursue similar licensing arrangements with third parties. B&W’s failure to grant us similar concessions in the future could have a number of adverse consequences, including restricting our pursuit of business opportunities with B&W or third parties, limiting our ability to raise funds through debt financing and requiring payment of our obligations to them in circumstances where we may not have sufficient funds available to do so. Since the combination of B&W and RJR, we have had no operational relationship with RJR, 22 Table of Contents under the agreements entered into with B&W. Given our ongoing patent litigation against RJR, we do not anticipate that we would have the same type of cooperative relationship with RJR as we had with B&W, or that RJR would be inclined to grant concessions similar to those that we received from B&W. We are dependent on the domestic tobacco business. All of our revenues are now derived from sales of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. The market for smokeless products is much smaller than the market for smoked tobacco products, and all of our revenue from smokeless tobacco product sales to date has been derived from sales in the United States, except for de minimis amounts of ARIVA® sold in Bermuda, Turkey and Norway. These sales were discontinued prior to 2007. Accordingly, we do not currently have access to foreign markets to offset the impact of the declining U.S. tobacco market. The tobacco industry is subject to substantial and increasing regulation with respect to the sale and market of its products. In 1996, the FDA promulgated regulations governing the sale and advertising of tobacco products. These regulations were designed primarily to discourage the sale to, and consumption by, adolescents and children. The authority of the FDA to promulgate such regulations was challenged in the federal courts. On March 21, 2000, the United States Supreme Court held that the Congress has not given the FDA authority to regulate tobacco products as customarily marketed. Since the decision by the Supreme Court did not preclude Congress from granting the FDA authority to regulate tobacco products, it is unclear whether Congress will act to grant such authority to the FDA in the future. However, legislation that would create such authority has been introduced previously in Congress, and new bills that would grant the FDA authority over all tobacco products were introduced in both the Senate and House in February 2007, and are still pending. The current legislation that is pending before Congress would give the FDA authority to impose product standards relating to, among other things, nicotine yields and smoke constituents. This legislation also would restrict marketing and impose larger warning labels on tobacco products. The tobacco industry is also subject to a wide range of laws regarding the marketing, sale and taxation (both federal and state) of tobacco products. In addition, there have been increased restrictions imposed on the use of tobacco products at the local, state and federal government levels . These developments generally receive widespread media attention and have proliferated in recent years. Further, additional restrictions on smoked tobacco products could also lead to increased consumer use of smokeless tobacco products, which could in turn lead to further restrictions and scrutiny by regulators of smokeless tobacco products, which could have material and adverse effects on our sales volumes, operating income and cash flows. We currently have licenses from the TTB to manufacture cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products. While we have discontinued our discount cigarette operations subsequent to our entering into a license agreement with Tantus for the exclusive license of our trademarks Sport® , MainStreet® and GSmoke® , we are not precluded from re-entering the discount cigarette market. To the extent that we are unable to maintain our current licenses or to obtain any additional licenses required by the TTB, this could materially and adversely affect our operations. In October 2004, federal legislation was enacted which eliminated the federal tobacco quota system and price support system through an industry funded buyout of tobacco growers and quota holders. Pursuant to the legislation, manufacturers of tobacco products have been assessed $10.1 billion over a ten-year period to compensate tobacco growers and quota holders for the elimination of their quota rights. Under the buyout legislation 96% of the assessments are made against cigarette sales and 4% against the sales of other tobacco products. Accordingly, the impact of the buyout legislation is less significant in relation to the sale of smokeless tobacco products than for cigarettes. 23 Table of Contents The tobacco industry is subject to substantial and increasing federal, state and local excise taxes. While federal excise tax on smokeless tobacco products is substantially lower ($0.585 per pound) than the excise tax for cigarettes, smokeless tobacco products are subject to substantial and increasing excise taxes, and it is possible that increased use of smokeless tobacco products could result in more stringent regulation. A number of states have recently considered increases in state excise taxes on smoked and smokeless tobacco products, and while one state has no excise tax on smokeless tobacco products, that state could choose to institute an excise tax and states that currently have an excise tax could choose to increase their tax rate. Further, state excise tax rates vary considerably. For example, the states of Alabama and North Dakota tax smokeless products at a rate of 1.5 cents per ounce and 16 cents per ounce, respectively, while the states of North Carolina and Oregon impose an excise tax of 10% and 65% of wholesale cost, respectively. New or increased excise taxes may result in declines in sales volume for the industry generally, and our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products in particular. This result could adversely affect our operating income and cash flows. We have had substantial obligations under state laws adopted under the Master Settlement Agreement. In November 1998, 46 states and the District of Columbia, the Settling States entered into the Master Settlement Agreement to resolve litigation that had been instituted against the major tobacco manufacturers. We were not named as a defendant in any of the litigation matters and chose not to become a participating manufacturer under the terms of the MSA. As a non-participating manufacturer, we have been required to satisfy certain escrow obligations pursuant to certain statutes adopted by the Settling States in order to receive the full benefits of the MSA. Under these statutes we are obligated to deposit monies annually into escrow for sales of cigarettes in each of the Settling States during the preceding year, and in some cases, such deposits must be made on a quarterly basis. These amounts are adjusted annually by statute and to reflect inflation adjustments (at the higher of 3% or the Consumer Price Index), using 1999 as a base year for the calculation. The base amount for 2007 is $3.77 per carton, as adjusted for inflation since 1999. Such escrowed funds will be available to satisfy tobacco-related judgments or settlements, if any, in the Settling States. On March 14, 2007, we sold the rights, title and interest in and to all income from and reversionary interest in our MSA escrow accounts, including the rights related to our 2006 MSA escrow deposits made in April 2007, in each case for an amount of cash equal to $0.30 on each dollar deposited, for cash proceeds of approximately $11.6 million. Although we have sold the rights, title and interest in and to all income from and reversionary interest in these escrow accounts, the escrow accounts remain in our name and the principal amounts of these accounts will be available to satisfy portions of any state judgments or settlements for the type of claims asserted against the major tobacco manufacturers in the suits that resulted in the negotiation of the MSA, if such claims are successfully asserted in litigation against us. As of December 31, 2007, we had deposited into escrow a net amount of approximately $38.6 million for sales of cigarettes in Settling States. We expect that our total escrow obligation for 2007 sales (due in April of 2008) will be approximately $100,000. Our MSA escrow obligations have been reduced significantly over time as we have sought to limit the sales of our discount cigarettes to non-Settling States. Additionally, on May 10, 2007, we entered into a license agreement with Tantus for the exclusive license of our trademarks Sport® , MainStreet® and GSmoke® historically used to market our discount cigarettes. As of June 2007, we had ceased the manufacture and sale of our discount cigarettes in an effort to focus our future operations on the manufacture and sale of our very low-TSNA dissolvable smokeless tobacco products. However, under the terms of the license agreement, we have the ability to manufacture and sell other branded cigarettes, the sale of which would be subject to MSA escrow obligations. Since the sale of smokeless tobacco products are not subject to the MSA escrow obligations, we do not anticipate having MSA escrow obligations in the future given the discontinuance of our cigarette operations in June 2007 and the focus on our smokeless tobacco products. We may be assessed additional sales and use taxes by the Commonwealth of Virginia. In 2002, the Virginia Department of Taxation asserted a Virginia Sales and Use Tax assessment for the period January 1, 1999, through March 31, 2002, against us with respect to our tobacco-curing barns in the amount of $860,115. We applied for a correction of the assessment and a total abatement of the tax on the grounds that our barns are exempt from sales and use taxes under the industrial use and processing exemption 24 Table of Contents and/or the agricultural exemption. In a letter dated October 7, 2004, we received notification from the Commonwealth of Virginia that the Commissioner of Taxation had rejected our request with respect to a sales and use tax assessment and that the sales and use tax assessment plus penalties and interest together, as of October 7, 2004, totaled approximately $988,000. We have continued to challenge this assessment and have filed a request for reconsideration with the Commissioner of Taxation, and are prepared to take judicial action if the results of the administrative action is unfavorable. The filing of the request for reconsideration stays any collection of the tax assessment, although interest continues to accrue. While we are optimistic that our request for reconsideration will be accepted based on prior rulings in similar cases, if the assessment is not reversed, we will be required to pay the tax, penalties and interest due. We may have additional federal tax obligations. In 2004, we were notified that the Company’s 2001 tax return had been selected for examination by the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS. During the course of the examination, the IRS has expanded the scope of the examination to include all of the Company’s tax returns that had been filed for the years ended December 31, 2002 through 2004. In 2005, our request for a private letter ruling relating to the years under IRS examination was generally resolved in our favor. The statutes of limitations for tax years 2001 and 2002 have been extended by our mutual agreement with the IRS through September 15, 2009. To date, we have furnished all information requested by the IRS in connection with its examination. However, the IRS may request additional information as the examination is ongoing. In May 2007, the IRS proposed adjustments which would result in a tax liability to the Company if sustained. We have provided for the potential liability of this matter in accordance with Accounting for Uncertainties in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48) in our consolidated financial statements. For a further discussion of FIN 48 and this matter, see “Part II—Item 7—Accounting and Reporting Developments” and Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements, respectively. We have filed an appeal at the agency level to the initial determination of proposed adjustments by the IRS field agent. This administrative appeal is currently pending. We believe the returns filed for these years are substantially correct and we intend to vigorously contest any proposed liability through all available means including judicial proceedings if necessary. Lawsuits may affect our profitability and we have limited insurance coverage for any damages for which we may become liable. We are not, nor have we ever been, named as a defendant in any legal proceedings involving claims arising out of the sale, distribution, manufacture, development, advertising, marketing and claimed health effects relating to the use of our tobacco products. While we believe that the risk of being named a defendant in such a lawsuit is relatively low, we may be named as a defendant in the future as there has been a noteworthy increase in the number of these cases pending. Punitive damages, often in amounts ranging into the hundreds of millions, or even billions of dollars, are asserted in a number of these cases in addition to compensatory and other damages. In the past, we maintained product liability insurance only with respect to claims that tobacco products manufactured by or for us contained any foreign object, i.e. any object that is not intended to be included in the manufactured product. We currently do not maintain such insurance. The product liability insurance we previously maintained did not cover health-related claims such as those that have been made against the major manufacturers of tobacco products. We currently do not have and do not believe that such insurance coverage for health-related claims can be obtained. In addition, beginning in 2001, we embarked on the test market and distribution of new smokeless tobacco products. If, in the future, we are involved in any actions related to our smokeless tobacco products, we will not have insurance coverage for damages relating to such claims, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition. If we do not effectively manage our growth, we may be unable to successfully develop, market and sell our products. Our future revenue and operating results will depend on our ability to manage the anticipated growth of our business. If we are successful in increasing market acceptance for our products, we will be required to manage 25 Table of Contents substantial volume from our customers. To accommodate any such growth and compete effectively, we will be required to attract, integrate, motivate and retain additional highly skilled sales, technical and other employees. We face competition for these people. Our ability to successfully manage such volume also will be dependent on our ability to scale up our tobacco processing and production operations. There can be no assurance that we can overcome the challenge of scaling up our processing and production operations or that our personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future operations. Any failure to implement and improve our operational, financial and management systems or to attract, integrate, motivate and retain additional employees required by future growth, if any, could have a material and adverse effect on our business and prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may lose our key personnel or fail to attract and retain additional personnel. We are highly dependent upon the continued services of our senior management team for our continued success. The loss of any one of Jonnie R. Williams, our Chief Executive Officer, Paul L. Perito, our Chairman, President and Chief Operating Officer, David M. Dean, our Vice President of Sales and Marketing, Park A. Dodd III, our Chief Financial Officer, or Robert E. Pokusa, our General Counsel, could have a serious negative impact upon our business and operating results. Our future success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain, on a continuing basis, consulting services from highly qualified scientific, technical, management, financial and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development and operation of our business or that given the operating losses that we have suffered over the past five years that we will have the financial ability to do so. The loss of the services of key personnel or the termination of relationships with independent scientific and medical investigators could have a material and adverse effect on our business. Our directors and executive officers own a large percentage of our voting stock, which allows them to exercise significant control over us, and they may make decisions with which you disagree. Based upon stock ownership as of December 31, 2007, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates, own an aggregate of approximately 26.5% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these persons acting together may have the ability to control matters submitted to our stockholders for approval and to control the management and affairs of the Company. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company, impede a merger, consolidation, or takeover or other business combination, or discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control. This concentration of control could also have a negative effect on the market price of our shares. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. The trading price of the shares of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. Since 2005, our stock has traded at prices ranging from $6.49 on February 23, 2005 to $0.80 on December 31, 2007. We receive only limited attention from securities analysts and may experience an imbalance between supply and demand for our common stock resulting from low trading volumes. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control, including the following: • developments related to our patents or other proprietary rights, including developments in our litigation against RJR; • developments in our efforts to market smokeless tobacco products; • announcements of new products by us or our competitors, technological innovations, contracts, acquisitions, financings, corporate partnerships or joint ventures; 26 Table of Contents • our success in developing a pharmaceutical product to treat tobacco-related dependence; • negative regulatory action or regulatory approval with respect to our products or our competitors’ products; and • market conditions for the tobacco industry in general. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for small companies, and which have often been unrelated to their operating performance. These broad fluctuations may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price of our common stock. On August 24, 2007, we received a Nasdaq Staff Deficiency Letter, indicating that we were not in compliance with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing set forth in Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5), because the bid price per share of the our common stock closed below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days. However, on October 15, 2007, the Nasdaq Global Market notified us that since the minimum closing bid price of our common stock had been at $1.00 per share or greater for ten consecutive trading days, we had regained compliance with the minimum bid price requirement set forth in Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5). We have been in compliance with the minimum bid price rule since that date. Under rules of the Nasdaq Global Market, if our stock trades below $1.00 a share for 30 consecutive business days, the Nasdaq will issue a notice of intent to delist the Company if its shares do not trade above $1.00 per share for ten consecutive business days during the next 180 calendar days, and if we do not otherwise comply with Nasdaq listing requirements. It is possible that in the future our common stock will trade below $1.00 for substantial periods and, accordingly, there is a possibility that we could again face delisting from the Nasdaq Global Market, which could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. Our research & development efforts may not result in commercially viable products and may continue to be curtailed by our lack of available research funds. Consistent with our efforts to cut costs, we have deferred certain research projects beginning in the last half of 2003. Presently, our research focus is directed to assessing the impact that products with reduced toxin levels may have on the range of serious health hazards associated with the use of conventional smoked and smokeless tobacco products. We believe continued pursuit of this focus is vital to future product development and to our strategy to market our very low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. While our research work has been deferred as a result of the lack of available working capital, we have designed several additional scientific studies to assess, among other things, whether a reduction in TSNAs can be equated with a reduction in health risk, biomarker differences that can be equated to levels of various toxins in smoked versus smokeless tobacco, and the impact of the decline in TSNA exposure in low-TSNA smokeless tobacco compared to traditional cigarette products. However, because of monetary constraints we are not moving forward with these studies at this time. We hope to renew our research and development efforts in 2008, subject to the availability of funds, and to pursue the development of a range of tobacco-based pharmaceutical products through our Star Pharma subsidiary that was incorporated in June 2007. However, our ability to renew these research efforts will be heavily dependent upon the availability of additional working capital and a successful outcome in our ongoing lawsuit against RJR. Our inability to renew these research and development efforts could result in a failure to develop new products or to improve our current products, which could have a material and adverse impact on our sales, operating income and cash flows. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, as a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and our stock price. We have previously determined that our internal controls over financial reporting were effective. As we disclosed in our “Management’s Report on Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting” set forth in Part II, 27 Table of Contents Item 9A “Controls and Procedures” of this Report, we have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective based on the applicable evaluation criteria as of December 31, 2007, as a result of our identification of a “material weakness” (as defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board in its Auditing Standard No. 5, “An Audit of Internal Controls over Financial Reporting that is Integrated with an Audit of Financial Statements”) relating to account reconciliation and analysis in conjunction with the sale of our tobacco curing barns in March 2007. While this weakness related to a one-time sale event and we are taking steps to correct this material weakness, if we fail to remediate this material weakness or if we otherwise fail to maintain our internal controls over financial reporting, this could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative impact on the price for our common stock. We are subject to risks inherent in new product development initiatives, particularly with respect to our goal of developing pharmaceutical products to treat tobacco-related dependence and other neurological conditions, which would be subject to U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, clearances and approvals. We plan to continue to make significant investments in new product development projects. Also, we intend to pursue the development of a pharmaceutical products to treat tobacco related dependence and other neurological conditions through our Star Pharma subsidiary. These initiatives are subject to high levels of risk, uncertainties and contingencies, including the challenges inherent in new product development and regulatory approvals for any new pharmaceutical products that we develop. We incorporated Star Pharma in June 2007 to pursue a range of pharmaceutical products, including products that have a botanical, tobacco-based component. However, Star Pharma does not have any pharmaceutical products cleared or approved for commercialization, or any current sources of revenue. The future success of our Star Pharma business will depend on our ability to obtain regulatory clearance or approval to market our products, create product sales, successfully introduce new products, establish our sales force and distribution network, and our access to additional working capital to finance our development initiatives, all of which we may be unable to realize. Even if we develop a pharmaceutical product, we may not obtain or maintain the necessary FDA clearances for our product, or such clearances may be delayed, which would mean that we would be unable to commercially distribute and market our product. The process of seeking regulatory clearance or approval to market a pharmaceutical product is expensive and time consuming and, notwithstanding the effort and expense incurred, clearance or approval is never guaranteed. We cannot market a drug product in the United States unless it has been approved by the FDA. The FDA approval process involves, among other things, successfully completing clinical trials under an Investigational New Drug Application and obtaining a premarket approval after filing a New Drug Application, or NDA. The NDA process would require us to prove the safety and efficacy of our product to the FDA’s satisfaction. If our clinical trials fail to produce sufficient data to support an NDA, it will take us longer to ultimately commercialize a product and generate revenue, or the delay could result in our being unable to do so. Moreover, our development costs will increase if, to achieve sufficient data to support an NDA, we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. This process can be expensive and uncertain. Even if we are successful in developing a pharmaceutical product, if we are not successful in obtaining timely clearance or approval of the product from the FDA, we may never be able to generate sufficient revenue to support the successful commercialization of the product. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has not received any written comments from the SEC staff regarding its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or Current Reports on Form 8-K in the 180 days preceding December 31, 2007. 