Risk Factors” of this Report in evaluating these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are representative only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We are a technology-oriented company with a mission to reduce the harm associated with the use of tobacco at every level. We are primarily engaged in: • the development, implementation and licensing of our proprietary technology for the curing of tobacco so as to substantially prevent the formation of carcinogenic toxins present in tobacco and tobacco smoke, primarily the tobacco-specific nitrosamines, or TSNAs; • the manufacture, sales, marketing and/or development of very low-TSNA dissolvable smokeless tobacco products that carry enhanced warnings beyond those required by the Surgeon General, including ARIVA® compressed powdered tobacco cigalett®pieces and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® and “modified risk tobacco products” as defined in the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act of 2009, or the FDA Tobacco Act; • the development of pharmaceutical products, particularly products that have a botanical, tobacco-based component, that are designed to treat tobacco dependence and a range of neurological conditions, including Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, schizophrenia and depression; and • the manufacture, sale, marketing and development of non-nicotine and non-tobacco nutraceutical products designed to assist individuals who are seeking a smoking alternative as well as related nutraceutical products that are designed to promote the maintenance of a healthy metabolism. Since the 1990s, we have sought to develop processes and products that significantly reduce the levels of toxins, principally TSNAs, in tobacco compared to traditional smoked and smokeless tobacco products. Our development of technology for reducing TSNA levels has lead to our focus on the development of tobacco-based pharmaceutical products and non-nicotine nutraceuticals that we are pursuing through our Rock Creek subsidiary. Given our long-term focus on reducing the levels of toxins in tobacco and the harm associated with tobacco use, we believe we are uniquely positioned to pursue a range of very-low TSNA smokeless tobacco products as “modified risk products” under the FDA Tobacco Act. We also believe we are positioned to utilize our technology to produce a range of non-nicotine nutraceuticals and tobacco-based pharmaceuticals furthering our mission to reduce the harm associated with tobacco use at every level as well as to develop related products that are designed to promote the maintenance of a healthy metabolism. The following discussion of our historical results of operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in “Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules” of this Report. In August 2010, our Rock Creek subsidiary introduced a non-nicotine, non-tobacco nutraceutical designed to curb the urge to smoke. Beginning in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2010, we began utilizing segment reporting for each of our operating subsidiaries. See note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in “Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules” of this Report for further information on our segment reporting. Our History Since December 1998, our primary corporate focus has centered on the sales, marketing and development of tobacco products that expose adult tobacco users to lower levels of toxins and, beginning in 2007, tobacco-based pharmaceuticals and related non-nicotine nutraceutical products. Until 2007, our revenues were generated principally through the sale of discount cigarettes by our company’s wholly owned subsidiary Star Tobacco. Star Tobacco was incorporated in 1990 and, until 1994, was primarily a contract manufacturer of cigars and cigarettes. In late 1994, we commenced development and commercialization of its own brands of discount cigarettes using primarily Virginia flue-cured tobacco, which competed principally on the basis of price. Around the same time, we commenced a research and development program relating to a range of tobacco products that deliver fewer toxins as well as tobacco cessation products. Shortly thereafter, upon concluding that there was no way to develop a completely “safe cigarette”, we shifted the near-term research by Star Tobacco to the development of very-low TSNA smokeless tobacco products containing lower levels of carcinogenic TSNAs, particularly NNNs and NNKs, that are formed principally during the curing of tobacco. In connection with that effort, we announced that our company would seek to transition from the sale of cigarette products as soon as practically possible. To facilitate that transition, in May 2007 we entered into an agreement with Tantus Tobacco LLC, or Tantus, for the exclusive license of our cigarette trademarks Sport®, MainStreet® and GSmoke® and discontinued manufacturing any cigarette products as of June 2007. Since 2007 our tobacco revenues have been generated exclusively through the sale of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. In August 2010 we introduced into the market CigRx®, our non-nicotine, non-tobacco dietary supplement and we have been generating revenue from the sale of CigRx® since that time. 4 Table of Contents Our Strategy Our long-term focus is the research, development, manufacturing and licensing of technology that can lessen reliance on and the impact of the use of all forms of tobacco, reduce the range of serious health hazards associated with the use of smoked and smokeless tobacco and more generally assist consumers in maintaining a healthy metabolism. We have pursued these objectives through: • the production of very low-TSNA tobacco; • dissolvable smokeless tobacco products that expose adult tobacco users to substantially lower levels of toxins as compared to other smoked and smokeless tobacco products; • the development of non-nicotine, non-tobacco nutraceuticals; • the submission of applications to have variants of our low-TSNA smokeless products designated as “modified risk tobacco products” under the FDA Tobacco Act; and • the ongoing research and development efforts of Rock Creek on related non-nicotine nutraceuticals and pharmaceutical products. We fully accept the evidence that links smoking tobacco with a variety of diseases and premature death. We believe it is highly unlikely that the health risks of smoked tobacco can be completely eliminated, and that no safe cigarettes will ever be manufactured. We believe we were the first company to state unequivocally that “there is no such thing as a safe cigarette.” Further, we were the first company to affix to the back of the package of our first premium low-TSNA product, Advance®, a package “onsert” that contained not only scientifically verified comparative product content data, but also additional health warnings beyond those required by the Surgeon General. Despite worldwide efforts to curb tobacco use, the American Cancer Society continues to report that an estimated 1.3 billion people smoke and use other conventional tobacco products. Given the reality of tobacco use, we continue to believe that there is an urgent need to reduce the toxicity of tobacco products to the maximum extent possible, using available technology and to provide alternatives to those products for persons seeking to maintain a nicotine-free metabolism. Over the last several years, we have expended significant time and resources: (i) on our ongoing patent infringement litigation with R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, or RJR, a wholly owned subsidiary of Reynolds American, Inc., or RAI, which we are continuing to pursue on appeal following an unsuccessful verdict in our jury trial in that case which took place between May 18 and June 16, 2009 in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland, or District Court, (see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for further details) (ii) the development of ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff®, our low-TSNA dissolvable smokeless tobacco products and, more recently, “modified risk tobacco products” under the FDA Tobacco Act, (iii) the licensing of low-TSNA products and the technology behind our StarCured® tobacco curing process, and (iv) the efforts of Rock Creek in developing botanical tobacco-based pharmaceutical products, non-nicotine nutraceuticals and related products. Our future success will depend largely on the successful results of these initiatives. While product licensing royalties and smokeless tobacco sales have been de minimis to date, we intend to continue our efforts to develop and sell low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, develop pharmaceutical products to treat tobacco addiction and a range of neurological conditions and related non-nicotine nutraceuticals, and to pursue licensing arrangements for those products and related technology. We believe our proprietary technology related to the curing of very-low TSNA tobacco and the development of related products, including tobacco-based pharmaceuticals and non-nicotine nutraceuticals, positions us to a be a leader in producing products designed to lower the harm associated with the use of tobacco at all levels. 5 Table of Contents Our Technology Our Current Intellectual Property Rights Our proprietary technology for producing low-TSNA tobacco which is utilized in ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff®, our low-TSNA dissolvable smokeless tobacco products, has been licensed exclusively from Regent Court Technologies, LLC, or Regent Court, a company in which Jonnie R. Williams Sr., the technology’s inventor, our founder, Chief Executive Officer and one of our largest stockholders, is a part owner. The license agreement with Regent Court grants us exclusive worldwide rights to and a right of sublicense for the StarCured® process, related patents covering the production of low-TSNA dissolvable smokeless tobacco products and the use of certain tobacco-based monoamine oxidase inhibitors, or MAO, agents in treating neurological conditions. For additional information related to our proprietary curing process, see “ — Our Patents, Trademarks and Licenses.” Two of the patents under our license with Regent Court that relate to our method for producing low-TSNA tobacco are the subject of our ongoing lawsuit against RJR. Accordingly, we have dedicated substantial time and resources to defend and enforce our proprietary rights with respect to these patents. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” It is our objective to achieve widespread acceptance of our tobacco curing technology as a standard for the manufacture of less toxic and potentially less harmful smoked and smokeless tobacco products and, in the future, as a basis for the use of very low-TSNA tobacco in the production of smoking cessation products. Our Recent Intellectual Property Initiatives In December 2008, we filed a new U.S. patent application for a variant of our patented curing technology that results in the production of cured tobacco that contains virtually undetectable levels of carcinogenic TSNAs as measured by prevailing standards. In 2010 Rock Creek filed three patent applications relating to our CigRx® product, and a patent application for a relapse prevention product. Rock Creek also has several provisional patent applications pending that we expect to mature into one or more non-provisional patent applications relating to the administration of anatabine, or an isomer or salt thereof, for treating chronic inflammation that may be associated with disorders such as thyroiditis, cancer, arthritis, Alzheimer’s disease, and multiple sclerosis. The StarCured® Process The process of curing or drying tobacco so that it is suitable for use in the production of tobacco products begins immediately upon harvesting of the tobacco leaf. The two principal varieties of tobacco leaf in the United States are Virginia flue-cured tobacco and burley tobacco, both of which are typically used in American-made cigarettes to produce what is referred to as an American blend. Under conventional curing methods used in the production of Virginia flue-cured tobacco, the leaves are placed in enclosed barns and are then exposed to gas-fired heat, while burley tobacco undergoes a curing process where the leaves are hung in sheds to dry naturally. The curing process for Virginia flue-cured tobacco takes approximately five to seven days, and the curing process used with burley tobacco generally last a month or more. Our proprietary StarCured® technology is applicable to the curing of Virginia flue-cured tobacco on a broad-scale commercial basis and, we believe, is also applicable to the curing of burley tobacco as well as other varieties of tobacco. Our proprietary curing process essentially arrests or eliminates microbial activity that normally occurs during curing, thereby preventing the formation of TSNAs. Our StarCured® curing technology does not, however, alter or affect taste, color or the nicotine content of tobacco. We make no claim or representation that our StarCured® tobacco curing process precludes the formation of harmful chemical constituents found in tobacco and tobacco smoke, other than TSNAs. Additionally, we make no claim that the elimination of TSNAs reduces the risk of disease. We have been careful not to make any health claims, directly or indirectly, even though peer-reviewed scientific literature continues to emerge pointing out that a reduction of these carcinogens in smokeless tobacco can be expected to reduce health risks. We believe that through our StarCured® process we have the technology to reduce exposure to carcinogenic TSNAs, particularly the subgroups of nitrosamines commonly referred to as NNNs and NNKs, to very low levels (with carcinogenic NNNs and NNKs that measure 200 parts per billion and below) and that we have demonstrated that our process for curing tobacco using the StarCured® method can be scaled up to meet broad commercial needs in the United States and abroad. Our focus on very low-TSNA, non-fermented smokeless tobacco products, and the licensing of our technology, is based, in part, on the fact that there is broad agreement among tobacco researchers that tobacco smoke contains over 4,000 constituents, 65 of which are known carcinogens. While TSNAs are considered to be one of the most significant groups of carcinogens in tobacco and tobacco smoke, they are recognized as being the only major or biologically significant group of carcinogenic toxins in smokeless tobacco. In December 2008 we filed a new U.S. patent application for a variant of our patented curing technology that results in the production of cured tobacco that consistently contains virtually undetectable levels of carcinogenic TSNAs as measured by prevailing standards. We are using tobacco cured by this process in the products included in the applications that we submitted to the FDA for the “modified risk tobacco” designation. The use of this tobacco allows us to produce a tobacco product that has levels of the carcinogenic TSNA comparable to those found in nicotine replacement therapy products. 6 Table of Contents Our Current Products Smokeless Tobacco Products Over the past nine years, we have been engaged in the development of very low-TSNA, non-fermented smokeless tobacco products designed to provide adult tobacco users with a viable alternative to cigarettes and traditional smokeless tobacco products in situations and environments where they cannot or choose not to use such products. This development effort was encouraged by our company’s Scientific Advisory Board and other independent scientific, medical and public health advisors who in 1999 and in 2000 urged us to accelerate the development of smokeless products using 100% StarCured® very low-TSNA tobacco because our smokeless products have far fewer toxins than conventional cigarettes and traditional smokeless tobacco products. This position is supported by a 2002 report issued by the Royal College of Physicians in Great Britain that concluded the “consumption of non-combustible tobacco is of the order of 10-1,000 times less hazardous than smoking, depending on the product.” It is broadly agreed among tobacco researchers that cigarette smoke contains more than 4,000 chemical compounds, 65 of which are known to be carcinogenic. In contrast, it is generally recognized that the only major or biologically significant carcinogenic toxins in non-fermented smokeless tobacco are the TSNAs, particularly the NNNs and NNKs. In November 2001, we introduced ARIVA® cigalett® pieces, or ARIVA®, as our first dissolvable hard tobacco smokeless tobacco product. ARIVA® is a compressed powdered tobacco product designed to dissolve completely in the mouth without leaving any residue or requiring expectoration. During the second quarter of 2003, in an effort to market a dissolvable hard tobacco product to adult users of traditional smokeless tobacco products such as moist snuff, we introduced a non-fermented spit-free “hard tobacco” product called STONEWALL Hard Snuff®. Both ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® are made from non-fermented 100% low-TSNA StarCured® tobacco plus natural and artificial flavorings, as well as other ingredients. In 2007, we introduced two new blends of STONEWALL Hard Snuff®, “Natural” and “Java” in addition to the original “Wintergreen” blend. We introduced a “Java” blend of ARIVA® in 2008 and in the first quarter of 2010 we introduced “Cinnamon”, “Mint” and “Citrus” blends of ARIVA® and a new packaging format (10-piece sleeves) for ARIVA®. ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® have been marketed nationwide through tobacco distributors and wholesalers who have direct arrangements with several national retail chains and through other national distributors experienced with consumer products. In 2009 we restructured our smokeless tobacco operations to reduce costs while concentrating our efforts on a more narrow geographic area and continuing sales to our established regional and national retail chain customers. Our domestic sales of ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® have been de minimis to date and we did not have any international sales in 2010. We believe that in order to successfully market ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® on a broad basis we must develop additional distribution channels for these products. We also will be required to expend substantial funds on the marketing of these products to consumers, which we will need to obtain from external financing, the availability of which cannot be assured. For additional information relating to our liquidity, see “Item 6. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” CigRx® CigRx®, our non-nicotine, non-tobacco nutraceutical intended to temporarily reduce the desire to smoke, was introduced into the market in August 2010 in the Richmond, Virginia area. Since its introduction, we have been working with InVentiv Health to develop awareness for the CigRx® product through an outreach program involving visits to physicians and other health care professionals. We also market CigRx® through an interactive website, infomercials and limited direct advertising at the consumer level. In late February 2011, we began testing CigRx® on a national basis through expanded infomercials and radio spots. We believe that these marketing avenues will allow us to increase sales of CigRx® and provide a viable platform for the expansion of CigRx® sales on a national basis. See”—Our Sales and Marketing Efforts—Dietary Supplement-CigRx®” for a discussion of our manufacturing, storage, order processing and delivery arrangements with third parties related to CigRx®. Our Current Product Development Initiatives Pharmaceutical Products and Nutraceuticals Through our company’s Rock Creek subsidiary, we are pursuing the development of botanical based products for the treatment of tobacco dependence, as well as products that would utilize certain MAO agents in tobacco to treat a range of neurological conditions, including Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, schizophrenia and depression. Rock Creek also has been involved in developing non-nicotine nutraceutical products that may assist persons who have ceased using tobacco or who are in the process of stopping tobacco use maintain a balanced metabolism and related non-nicotine products that may be helpful to consumers in maintaining a healthy metabolism. Rock Creek operates pursuant to a sublicense under our exclusive license with Regent Court, which includes patents for producing tobacco with very low-TSNA levels. The sublicense also covers patents for the use of MAO inhibitors in tobacco to treat various neurological conditions. 7 Table of Contents These research efforts are headed by Curtis Wright, MD, MPH who joined our company as Senior Vice President, Medical/Clinical Director of Rock Creek in 2008. Dr. Wright previously served as Vice President of Clinical and Regulatory Affairs for Adolor Corporation, Executive Director, Medical Affairs and subsequently Executive Director of Risk Assessment for Purdue Pharma and most recently, as Executive Vice President for Risk Management and Regulatory Affairs at Javelin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Dr. Wright’s career at the FDA, from 1989 through October 1997, included multiple senior scientific positions in the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, including Deputy Director and Acting Director of his division. Low-TSNA Tobacco and “modified risk tobacco products” In the mid-1990s, we commenced research and development activities based on newly conceived technology for the processing of tobacco that substantially prevents the formation of TSNAs in cured tobacco. Our research and development efforts culminated in the development of our proprietary technology relating to various aspects of the process for producing very low-TSNA tobacco and tobacco products. In 2008 we filed a patent application with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for a variant of our process for producing low-TSNA tobacco that results in even lower levels of carcinogenic TSNAs in cured tobacco. For additional information related to our intellectual property, see “ — Our Patents, Trademarks and Licenses.” Two of the patents that relate to our method for producing low-TSNA tobacco are the subject of our ongoing lawsuit against RJR. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for further details. In 2009 and 2010 we developed Ariva-BDL™ and Stonewall-BDL™, variants of our ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® smokeless tobacco products, that have significantly lower levels of carcinogenic TSNAs as well as other toxins compared to conventional tobacco products and which are at a levels comparable to those found in nicotine replacement therapy products. These products use tobacco cured by our StarCured® tobacco processes. We filed applications with the FDA in 2010 to have Ariva-BDL™ and Stonewall-BDL™ designated as “modified risk tobacco products” under the FDA Tobacco Act. On February 1, 2011, we filed a third application with the FDA for a modified risk moist snuff product, Stonewall Moist-BDL™. If our application for the designation of Ariva-BDL™, Stonewall-BDL and Stonewall Moist-BDL™ as “modified risk tobacco products” are approved by the FDA, we believe our company will gain an advantage in marketing our very-low TSNA smokeless tobacco products, because we would be able to provide information to tobacco users on the levels of such toxins in those products. Absent receiving an order approving a product’s designation as a “modified risk tobacco product”, the FDA Tobacco Act prohibits a company from making any claims relating to a product’s reduced levels of toxins or reduced risk. Our ability to continue our research efforts, including advancement of the research and development activities of Rock Creek, will depend in large part on our working capital constraints, ability to procure funding for these initiatives, and the successful outcome of our ongoing patent infringement litigation with RJR. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” and our consolidated financial statements included in “Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules” of this Report for further information on our working capital constraints and results of operations. Discontinued Products We exited from the cigarette business in June 2007. Prior to that time, the majority of our revenues were derived from the sale of discount cigarettes. Although we retain the right to manufacture and sell other branded cigarettes, we plan to continue to focus our efforts in the tobacco area on the sale of our low-TSNA dissolvable smokeless tobacco products, as opposed to cigarettes. Our Prior Research and Development Efforts In the past we have developed several products and initiated several research and development efforts based on our StarCured® low-TSNA tobacco technology which, although not currently active, we believe could serve as the basis for future product development efforts. 8 Table of Contents Low-TSNA Moist and Dry Snuff Products In September 2001, we introduced our first two very low-TSNA snuff products (a moist and dry snuff) under the brand name Stonewall®. In light of our focus on dissolvable hard tobacco products, we discontinued the manufacture of Stonewall® moist snuff and we have not sought to continue to market Stonewall® dry snuff. In January 2011, we filed an application with the FDA for the designation of Stonewall Moist-BDL™, a moist snuff product, as a “modified risk tobacco product.” Stonewall Moist-BDL™ is a variant of our original Stonewall® moist snuff product and we are also considering filing an application with the FDA for this same designation for a Stonewall Dry Snuff-BDL™, a variant of our original Stonewall® Dry Snuff product. Advance® Low-TSNA Cigarettes We launched the first low-TSNA cigarette, Advance®, in October 2000. Advance® was the first conventional cigarette specifically manufactured to diminish the amount of exposure to highly carcinogenic TSNAs. The Advance® cigarette reduced additional toxic smoke constituents through a unique activated carbon/acetate filter. Advance® also provided adult tobacco consumers with enhanced health warnings beyond those required by the Surgeon General on the back of the package, and through “onserts” that contained comparative content information and additional health-related information. INDs for a Low-TSNA Cigarette and a Tobacco-Flavored Chewing Gum In 1997, we submitted an Investigational New Drug Application, or IND, for a cigarette product made from low-TSNA flue-cured tobacco to the FDA as an investigational drug. This product was designed to offer a low-TSNA product to help patients, who had relapsed after a trial of smoking cessation, prepare for another cessation attempt. A Phase I study, under an FDA-reviewed protocol, was completed at the Virginia Commonwealth University. The study contrasted our test product that had TSNA levels of about 100 parts per billion with conventional brands of cigarettes in terms of breath levels of carbon monoxide, blood levels of nicotine and urinary levels of TSNAs. With regard to the test product, blood nicotine levels were somewhat higher and carbon monoxide was substantially lower. The subjects’ urinary levels of TSNA (as measured by NNAL) were reduced substantially, consistent with published data showing that TSNAs leave the body over 90 to 120 days in an initial rapid phase and then in a slower phase during this period. The results of this study were significant in demonstrating that reductions of TSNA levels in tobacco resulted in reduced levels of TSNAs in the human body when study subjects smoked cigarettes containing tobacco with reduced levels of TSNAs. Prior to the decision to concentrate on the development of tobacco products that incorporate very low-TSNA StarCured® tobacco, we also sought to develop a gum product designed to help patients who had relapsed after a trial of smoking cessation to prepare for another cessation attempt. Although we secured an additional IND from the FDA for this product, we determined that further testing and submission of required marketing applications to the FDA would not only be overly costly and time consuming, but also would require a major scientific infrastructure which we neither had in place nor could afford at the time. As noted above, in June 2007, we formed Rock Creek to pursue the development of a range of pharmaceutical products, including products having a tobacco-based component, designed to treat tobacco related dependence and certain neurological conditions and related products such as nutraceuticals. Our Sales and Marketing Efforts Dissolvable Tobacco Our dissolvable tobacco sales and marketing activities are lead by Mr. Jonnie R. Williams Sr., our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. David M. Dean, our Vice President of Sales and Marketing and Mr. Sheldon Bogaz, our Vice President of Trade Operations. We have a two-fold strategy with respect to selling our dissolvable tobacco products to retailers. We provide local distributors with product information and upon request point of sale material for our dissolvable tobacco products. We also market our products directly to large retail chains which order product and point of sale material directly from us. In late 2009 we restructured our tobacco operations by reducing our sales force outside of Virginia and concentrating our in-store sales effort on a more narrow geographic area in Virginia and contiguous states. At the same time we continue to service our established regional and national retail chain customers through employees working out of our offices in the Richmond, Virginia area. We currently sell our smokeless tobacco products through approximately 107 tobacco distributors throughout the United States. The distributors and other customers maintain state and, where applicable, municipal government tobacco product licenses and apply state and/or local tax stamps when needed to resell our tobacco products. We deliver our products mainly by common carrier trucks. Our distributor customers primarily service convenience stores, gas stations, retail stores and other outlets. 9 Table of Contents Dietary Supplement-CigRx® CigRx®, our dietary supplement, is manufactured and sold through our Rock Creek subsidiary. CigRx® currently is being sold through an interactive website, infomercials and, to a limited extent, through direct retail sales. We also have been working jointly with InVentiv Health to develop awareness for the CigRx® product through an outreach program involving visits to physicians and other health care professionals and through direct advertising at the consumer level. Our in-house marketing personnel also have been assisting on the CigRx® launch and associated marketing activities associated with the launch In order to facilitate the launch of CigRx® and limit capital expenditures, we have outsourced the manufacturing, storage, order processing and delivery of CigRx® through contracts and arrangements with a number of third party suppliers. We anticipate that the arrangements which have been put in place with these various entities should be sufficient to meet our manufacturing and distribution needs for CigRx® for the foreseeable future. We also believe that the current marketing initiatives we have put into place will allow us to increase sales of CigRx® as we move forward on the national test market of CigRx® that began in late February 2011. Our Availability of Raw Materials and our Manufacturing Capabilities Dissolvable Tobacco All of the flue-cured tobacco used in our smokeless tobacco products has been or will be cured in specially manufactured curing barns using our StarCured® tobacco curing process. The StarCured® tobacco curing process involves controlling certain conditions in the tobacco curing barns, and in certain applications, uses microwave and/or electron beam technology. In March 2007, we sold approximately 990 of our tobacco curing barns. The sale of these barns was made exclusively to farmers who had been participants in our StarCured® tobacco curing program. We sold our 37 remaining StarCured® barns in late 2009 to growers who previously had participated in the StarCured® program. While we currently do not own any StarCured® barns, we have a significant amount of StarCured® tobacco in inventory and access to StarCured® tobacco through growers who previously participated in our StarCured® tobacco curing program. We believe that our existing inventory of StarCured® tobacco and our relationships with growers who maintain StarCured® barns will permit us to obtain sufficient amounts of StarCured® tobacco for our low-TSNA dissolvable smokeless tobacco products, and for other needs. We have a high-speed manufacturing line at our leased facility in Chase City, Virginia, which is currently used for the production of our ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® dissolvable smokeless tobacco products. In 2009 we consolidated our manufacturing operations into a larger immediately adjacent facility, which we lease from the Mecklenburg County Industrial Development Authority. See “Item 2. Properties.” We do not anticipate ordering additional equipment for manufacturing our dissolvable smokeless tobacco products until the existing production line is operating at nearly full capacity. We believe both our current availability of StarCured® tobacco and our manufacturing facilities provide more than sufficient capacity to meet both the current demand for our very low-TSNA dissolvable smokeless products and our manufacturing needs in the foreseeable future. Dietary Supplement—CigRx® We obtain all of the raw materials and packaging supplies for the manufacture of CigRx® from various vendors and we maintain an inventory of critical raw materials and packaging at the manufacturing location where CigRx® is produced. We believe that the vendors from whom we obtain raw materials and packaging have sufficient capacity to meet our supply needs on a timely basis and to allow us maintain inventory levels adequate to meet expected sales volume for the foreseeable future. We have outsourced the product manufacturing for CigRx® to a cGMP contract manufacturer which has sufficient capacity to provide us finished product timely and at quantities necessary to fulfill expected product sales volume for the foreseeable future. To facilitate this contract manufacturing arrangement we purchased and installed, at the manufacturing location, a dedicated packaging equipment line that is used in conjunction with the production of CigRx®. The machinery, while located at the contract manufacturer’s facility, remains titled in our company’s name. 10 Table of Contents Our Competition Tobacco Products Traditionally, tobacco products have been divided between smoked products (cigarettes, cigars, roll-your-own tobacco and pipe tobacco) and smokeless tobacco (moist snuff, chewing tobacco and dry snuff). The predominant competitors in the smoked tobacco market have been the major tobacco companies, Philip Morris USA, Inc., or Phillip Morris, RJR, Lorillard, Inc. and, prior to its combination with RJR, Brown and Williamson Tobacco Corporation, or B&W. UST, Inc., or UST, has been the dominant manufacturer in the smokeless segment of the market, which also includes companies such as Conwood Company, LLC, or Conwood, a wholly owned subsidiary of RAI, and Swedish Match AB, or Swedish Match. In 2009 Altria Group, Inc., or Altria, Philip Morris’s parent company expanded its role in the smokeless tobacco market through the acquisition of UST. As a result of the acquisition of UST by Altria Group, Inc and Conwood by RJR, those companies now control approximately ninety percent of the smokeless tobacco market. Recently, there has been increased competition between the smoked and smokeless tobacco markets as companies have begun to market smokeless tobacco as an alternative to cigarettes in situations where adult tobacco users cannot or choose not to smoke. Swedish Match has worked with selected varieties of tobacco under crop management environments and other methods in an effort to maintain low-TSNA levels in its smokeless tobacco products. In 2001, Swedish Match introduced a new smokeless tobacco product in the United States that claimed to have reduced levels of carcinogens. UST has also test marketed a pouch-style smokeless tobacco product, which it claimed has low levels of TSNAs. Industry analysts have reported that the smokeless tobacco market has been expanding at a rate of approximately 2-3% per year since 2003, while the cigarette market has been contracting over the same period. In 2007, both Philip Morris and RJR introduced smokeless tobacco pouch products that utilize their primary brand names (Marlboro Snus and Camel Snus, respectively) as alternatives to cigarettes and in 2009 RJR introduced several dissolvable smokeless tobacco products in test markets in the U.S. ARIVA® compressed tobacco cigalett® pieces are intended to compete with conventional cigarettes and to be used by adult smokers in situations and environments when they cannot or choose not to smoke. Each ARIVA® compressed tobacco cigalett piece delivers approximately 1.5 mg of nicotine, approximately the same level of nicotine as a “light” cigarette. Accordingly, we believe ARIVA® primarily competes for market share against large tobacco manufacturers that dominate the cigarette industry, as opposed to our traditional competitors in the smokeless market. ARIVA® is priced competitively with cigarettes. Our STONEWALL Hard Snuff® dissolvable tobacco product primarily competes with other smokeless tobacco companies such as UST, Conwood and Swedish Match, because STONEWALL Hard Snuff® is intended for use by adult users of moist snuff or other forms of smokeless tobacco. However, STONEWALL Hard Snuff® is also used by “heavy smokers” (those who smoke more than two packs of cigarettes a day) as an alternative to their traditional cigarette products. Each STONEWALL Hard Snuff® piece contains about 4.0 mg of nicotine, roughly the same as a pinch of snuff. STONEWALL Hard Snuff® is priced at a discount to traditional moist snuff products. Our sales of STONEWALL Hard Snuff® also face further competition with the recent introduction of smokeless tobacco products by Philip Morris and RJR. The FDA Tobacco Act permits companies to apply to have products designated as “modified risk tobacco products”, however, barring such designation, the FDA restricts the types of claims and descriptions that can be made with respect to various components in tobacco products, including any claims relating to reduced levels of toxins or reduced risk. In February 2010 we submitted an application to the FDA for the approval of Ariva-BDL™ as the first modified risk tobacco product under the FDA Tobacco Act and we filed a similar application for Stonewall-BDL™ in June 2010. In February 2011, we filed a third application with the FDA to have a moist snuff product, Stonewall Moist-BDL™, designated as a “modified risk tobacco product”. In 2002 the United States Department of Agriculture, or USDA, announced that it would provide full price supports only for flue-cured tobacco that was cured in a manner to reduce or limit the levels of TSNAs in the cured tobacco leaf, and the tobacco industry earlier had announced an initiative to facilitate the production of low-TSNA flue-cured tobacco. As a result, virtually all flue-cured tobacco grown in the United States since that time has been cured in a manner to reduce the levels of TSNAs. We believe that if we are successful in commercializing our unique low-TSNA tobacco products, enforcing the patents for the technology used to produce such products, to which we are the exclusive licensee, or obtaining approval to market our low-TSNA products as modified risk tobacco products under the FDA Tobacco Act, many of the major tobacco companies will also seek to market such low-TSNA tobacco products and may seek to sublicense the technology for producing low-TSNA tobacco from us. Pharmaceuticals, Nutraceuticals and Other Products and Services Smoking cessation products that are approved by the FDA for sale in the United States are designed to wean the smoker from nicotine addiction over a period of time ranging from 30 days to six weeks. These products are referred to as “nicotine replacement therapies.” Some of these products are sold over the counter and others are available by prescription. Although such pharmaceutical products are not intended to be substitutes for tobacco products, we believe that many smokers use such products for nicotine maintenance. There are also non-tobacco cigarettes produced with fillers such as lettuce and herbs and variations of cigarettes that do not burn tobacco, such as E-cigarettes. Also, there are non-nicotine nutraceuticals that are marketed as assisting to maintain a nicotine free metabolism or to balance metabolism in the absence of nicotine. In addition to the use of consumable products for smoking cessation or reduction purposes, medical practitioners and others have developed a variety of programs intended to assist a person in withdrawing from nicotine dependence. Treatments used include psychological counseling, hypnosis, group therapy and behavior modification techniques. 11 Table of Contents In August 2010, we introduced, CigRx® as a tobacco alternative designed to temporarily reduce the desire to smoke. CigRx® is a nutraceutical product that allows individuals to use a non-tobacco, non-nicotine product in situations where they are not in a position to use tobacco or wish to have an alternative to a tobacco product. CigRx® and other non-tobacco products compete with smokeless tobacco products in the “When You Can’t Smoke”® market, which we believe includes our ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff ® tobacco products. Also, to the extent that the FDA approves cessation products for nicotine maintenance, we believe our CigRx® product and our dissolvable smokeless tobacco products ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® would be positioned to compete in this market. There can be no assurance that in the future our competitors will not succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective than the products we develop, that are less toxic than our products, or that would render our products obsolete or non-competitive. Our Prior Relationship with B&W Beginning in October 1999, we entered into a series of agreements with B&W including an agreement to finance approximately $29 million of debt used to support our purchase of StarCured® tobacco curing barns. The loan balance on this debt was approximately $7.5 million as of December 31, 2010. On July 30, 2004, RAI combined the U.S. assets, liabilities and operations of Brown & Williamson Holdings, Inc. (formerly B&W), hereinafter referred to as B&W Holdings, an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of British American Tobacco p.l.c., with RJR. In our ongoing patent infringement litigation with RJR, RJR took the position that this business combination had assumed all of the rights and obligations under the agreements previously entered into with B&W, and moved to dismiss the patent infringement lawsuit on this basis. The District Court denied RJR’s motion to dismiss. In its ruling the District Court did leave open the question of what impact, if any, the combination may have on the future licensing arrangements with RJR, but noted that those considerations did not impact the claims asserted in the patent litigation. Our Patents, Trademarks and Licenses License Agreement with Regent Court We are the exclusive licensee under a License Agreement with Regent Court that provides, among other things, for the grant of an exclusive, worldwide, irrevocable license to us, with the right to grant sublicenses, to make, use and sell tobacco and tobacco containing products using Regent Court’s patent rights and know-how relating to the processes for curing tobacco so as to substantially prevent the formation of TSNAs, whether such patent rights and know-how are now in existence or hereafter developed. The License Agreement provides us exclusive rights to any inventions of Regent Court and its affiliates during the term of the License Agreement relating to the production, treatment or curing of tobacco, or a method of manufacturing a product containing tobacco, and to any method of extracting one or more substances from tobacco for the purpose of incorporating such substance or substances in a product or products. Absent a material breach, the License Agreement will continue until the expiration of the last of the applicable patents, which includes 12 U.S. patents and 51 foreign patents, as well as any additional patents issued to Regent Court during the term of the License Agreement. Generally, patents have a term of 20 years from the initial date of filing of a patent application. The U.S. patents subject to the License Agreement expire at various dates between June 28, 2016 and May 6, 2021. We are obligated to pay to Regent Court a royalty of 2% on the net sales of our products and the products of any affiliated sublicensees, and 6% on all fees and royalties received by us from unaffiliated sublicensees, less any related research and development costs incurred by us as well as costs incurred in enforcing the patent rights. The License Agreement may be terminated by us upon 30 days’ written notice. Regent Court may terminate the License Agreement upon a default in the payment of royalties or a failure to submit a correct accounting continuing for at least 30 days after written notice from Regent Court, a material breach of any other of our obligations under the License Agreement continuing for at least 60 days after written notice from Regent Court, or in the event of a change of control resulting from the purchase of our stock or all or substantially all of our assets. The License Agreement obligates us to enforce and pay for United States and foreign patent rights and contains other provisions typically found in patent license agreements, such as provisions governing patent enforcement and the defense of any infringement claims asserted against us or our sublicensees. The License Agreement further provides that any and all costs, obligations or liabilities related to patent infringement matters brought against us will be borne by us. We have agreed to indemnify and defend Regent Court and its affiliates against losses incurred in connection with our use, sale or other disposition of any licensed product or the exercise of any rights under the License Agreement. Regent Court has made no representations to us in any document regarding the efficacy of the licensed technology. Two of the patents under our license with Regent Court that relate to our method for producing low-TSNA tobacco are the subject of our ongoing lawsuit against RJR. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for further details. 12 Table of Contents Patents and Proprietary Rights We believe that our patent portfolio under the License Agreement with Regent Court establishes us as a world leader in curing technology that consistently produces very low-TSNA tobacco. Under the agreement with Regent Court, we have exclusive rights to the issued patents listed below, which are the only United States’ patents issued to Regent Court. The patents cover the current technology for substantially preventing the formation of TSNAs in tobacco, as well as patents relating to the production of low-TSNA dissolvable smokeless tobacco products and the use of certain tobacco-based MAO inhibitor agents in treating neurological conditions. We have filed corresponding patent applications in numerous foreign countries, some of which have been granted. Also, in December 2008 we filed a new U.S. patent application for a variant of our patented curing technology that results in the production of cured tobacco that contains virtually undetectable levels of carcinogenic TSNAs as measured by prevailing standards. In 2010, Rock Creek filed three patent applications relating to our CigRx® product, and a patent application for a relapse prevention product. Rock Creek also has several provisional patent applications pending that we expect to mature into one or more non-provisional patent applications relating to the administration of anatabine, or an isomer or salt thereof, for treating chronic inflammation that may be associated with disorders such as thyroiditis, cancer, arthritis, Alzheimer’s disease, and multiple sclerosis. There can be no assurances that the claims that have been or may be granted to us under these patents will be sufficient to protect the intellectual property licensed to us, or that we or Regent Court will develop or obtain the rights to any additional products or processes that are patentable. Further, no assurances can be given that any patents licensed to us will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us. We are the exclusive licensee to the following United States’ patents pursuant to our License Agreement with Regent Court: Date of Patent Number Issue Description Expiration Date U.S. Patent No. 5,803,081 09/08/1998 Method of Treating Tobacco with Microwave Radiation to Prevent Formation of Nitrosamines 06/28/2016 U.S. Patent No. 5,845,647 12/08/1998 Tobacco Products Improved by the Use of Propolis 06/28/2016 U.S. Patent No. 6,135,121 (Reissued as RE 38,123 E) 10/24/2000 Tobacco Products Having Reduced Nitrosamine Content 06/28/2016 U.S. Patent No. 6,202,649 03/20/2001 Method of Preventing Nitrosamine Formation by Treating Tobacco in Controlled Environment 12/02/2016 U.S. Patent No. 6,311,695 B1 11/06/2001 Method of Treating Tobacco With High Frequency Energy to Prevent Nitrosamine Formation 06/28/2016 U.S. Patent No. 6,338,348 B1 01/15/2002 Method of Treating Tobacco With Microwave Energy to Prevent Nitrosamine Formation 06/28/2016 U.S. Patent No. 6,350,479 B1 02/26/2002 Method of Administering Alcohol Extracts of Tobacco 06/04/2019 U.S. Patent No. 6,425,401 07/30/2002 Method of Preventing Nitrosamine Formation By Treating Tobacco in Controlled Environment 12/02/2016 U.S. Patent No. 6,569,470 B2 05/27/2003 Method of Administering Alcohol Extracts of Tobacco 06/04/2019 U.S. Patent No. 6,668,839 B2 12/30/2003 Smokeless Tobacco Products Made from Powdered Tobacco 05/06/2021 U.S. Patent No. 6,834,654 12/28/2004 Smokeless Tobacco Product Made from Compressed Powdered Tobacco 05/01/2021 U.S. Patent No. 6,929,811 B2 8/16/2005 Method of Modulating Monoamine Oxidase (MAO) Activity Using Tobacco Alkaloids 06/04/2019 13 Table of Contents Government Regulation Overview The manufacture and sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products are subject to extensive federal governmental regulation in the United States and by comparable authorities in many foreign countries. In addition to federal statutes and regulations, many states also require manufacturers of tobacco products to obtain a cigarette license or a tobacco product license in order to sell tobacco products. States also regulate the age at which adult consumers may purchase tobacco products and the locations where tobacco products can be sold. Many states over the past few years have placed increased restrictions on the purchase and use of tobacco products. FDA Regulation Tobacco products and all products derived from tobacco are subject to multiple, overlapping federal and state regulations. Any products derived from tobacco could be viewed as tobacco products, or drug products depending upon their chemical composition, intended use and claims. FDA Tobacco Act. The Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act, or FDA Tobacco Act, which went into effect on June 22, 2009, provides the FDA with broad authority over all tobacco products through a new division within the FDA (The Center for Tobacco Products). The FDA Tobacco Act grants the Center for Tobacco Products broad authority over the manufacturing, sale and distribution of tobacco products including expanded control over the introduction of new tobacco products, warnings that must be included on all tobacco products and the manner in which tobacco products may be marketed and sold. Many of the changes specified in the FDA Act will be implemented gradually over a period of several years. Tobacco manufacturers were required to register with the FDA by the end of February 2010 and file annually thereafter. We timely submitted our initial registration and filed our annual registration in December 2010. Under the FDA Tobacco Act new labeling requirements with expanded health warnings, additional warnings and restrictions on advertising of tobacco products were put into place during 2010. In April 2010, we submitted a new labeling plan to the FDA along with new package labeling to comply with those changes in the law and have supplemented those materials since that time. The FDA Tobacco Act permits companies to apply to have products designated as “modified risk tobacco products,” and we filed applications seeking this designation for our Ariva-BDL™ our Stonewall-BDL™ products in 2010 and for a moist snuff product, Stonewall Moist-BDL™ in February, 2011. Those applications are currently pending. Under the FDA Tobacco Act, a manufacturer also may seek to have products that are substantially similar to a product that was marketed and sold prior to February 15, 2007 designated as a “substantially equivalent” tobacco product. Such a designation would allow the continued marketing of these products without the need to file an application with the FDA for a new tobacco product designation. We intend to file applications with the FDA seeking to have certain of our blends for ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® designated as substantially equivalent to our ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® blends that were manufactured and sold prior to February 15, 2007. The FDA Tobacco Act also contains provisions that we believe eventually could be beneficial to us in marketing our very-low TSNA smokeless tobacco products, such as those that would require a listing of various constituents and the publication of ingredients in all tobacco products with notations as to the harmfulness of those ingredients, but under the provisions of the FDA Tobacco Act those types of labeling changes and comparative ingredient information will not be put into place for at least two years from the June 2009 effective date of the legislation. In the interim, the FDA Tobacco Act attempts to level the playing field for all tobacco products by restricting the types of claims and descriptions that can be made with respect to various components in tobacco products, including any claims relating to reduced levels of toxins or reduced risk, unless a product receives a designation as a “modified risk tobacco product.” The FDA Tobacco Act also imposes user fees on tobacco manufactures to cover the cost of the FDA process. Given the low volume of sales of our tobacco products since 2009, the impact of the user fee under the FDA Tobacco Act has not been significant to date. However, if sales of our smokeless tobacco products increase substantially, we would have increased user-fee obligations which could become substantial in the future. Food Drug and Cosmetic Act. Under the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the FDA has authority for reviewing and approving any new drug product prior to its introduction into commerce. The process of seeking regulatory clearance or approval to market a pharmaceutical product is expensive and time consuming. The FDA-approval process involves, among other things, successfully completing clinical trials under an IND and obtaining a premarket approval after filing a New Drug Application, or NDA. The NDA process requires a company to prove the safety and efficacy of a new drug product to the FDA’s satisfaction. Also, any FDA approved product is subject to continuing review and the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising and promotion of any such product is subject to extensive regulation. Violations of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act can result in Warning Letters from FDA, injunctions, product seizure, and civil and criminal penalties. 14 Table of Contents Dietary Supplement Act. The Dietary Supplement Health Education Act or DSHEA, provides the FDA with authority over the production and marketing of dietary supplements. In certain cases DSHEA also requires notification to the FDA before a company begins to market a dietary supplement and, if structure or function claims are made for a product in the product labeling, notification of such claims within 30 days of the introduction of the product into commerce. DSHEA requires that dietary supplements be manufactured under “good manufacturing practices” and that the label, labeling and advertising for such products meet specific requirements set forth in DSHEA and its implementing regulations. DSHEA does not require prior approval by the FDA for the introduction of dietary supplements into the market, but does require that nutraceutical products comply with the requirements of DSHEA prior to and after their introduction into commerce. If products are manufactured and sold as dietary supplements it is possible that FDA may challenge the status of a product classification. FDA may also challenge the types of claims made for a dietary supplement or its indications for use. Our CigRx® product was introduced in August 2010 as a dietary supplement that is intended to be a smoking alternative that temporarily reduces the desire to smoke. We believe that we have appropriately marketed CigRx® as a nutraceutical and have made claims for the product that are consistent with those for a dietary supplement tobacco alternative. If CigRx® was determined. to be a pharmaceutical product, as opposed to a dietary supplement, the product would need to be submitted to the FDA for approval as a new drug prior to its being sold in the United States. Institute of Medicine Report and Potential Reduced-Exposure Products. On February 22, 2001, the Institute of Medicine issued a comprehensive report, entitled “Clearing the Smoke: Assessing the Science Base for Tobacco Harm Reduction,” in response to a request from the FDA to assess the scientific basis for potentially reducing the health risks associated with tobacco use. This voluminous report suggested, among other findings, that it is scientifically feasible to design and manufacture a range of Potential Reduced Exposure Products, or PREPs, but that, without appropriate governmental regulation and independent scientific evaluation of PREPs, the public is left without clear information regarding the degree to which these products reduce the risks associated with the use of traditional tobacco products. Since 2001, support for PREPs has been the subject of an ongoing debate concerning whether any tobacco products should be considered less toxic and a viable alternative to traditional tobacco products. Over the last several years, the scientific community has begun to recognize that certain forms of tobacco products, particularly low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, deliver fewer toxins than smoked tobacco. At the same time, concern has been expressed by certain members of the public health community about the use of smokeless tobacco because of potential “unintended consequences” that may accompany a switch from the most lethal form of tobacco to a less toxic tobacco product. The FDA Tobacco Act specifically allows companies to seek approval of products as “modified risk tobacco products” if they contain substantially less toxins than other products on the market and can be demonstrated to reduce the risk associated with tobacco use. Federal Trade Commission Requirements for health warnings on cigarettes have been governed by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act and are currently being transitioned to the FDA under provisions contained in the FDA Tobacco Act. Prior to the passage of the FDA Tobacco Act, warning requirements for smokeless tobacco products were mandated under the Comprehensive Smokeless Tobacco Health Education Act of 1986. Those Acts imposed labeling and advertising requirements on the manufacturers, packagers and importers of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products and required any company wishing to sell such products within the United States to submit a plan to the FTC explaining how it would comply with the warning label display requirements. We submitted labeling plans for smokeless products to the FTC in accordance with these acts. Under the FDA Tobacco Act labeling plans for smokeless tobacco products are now submitted to the FDA for approval and the type and form of warnings that must be included on packages and labeling for smokeless tobacco products are now governed by the statutory requirements of the FDA Tobacco Act and its implementing regulations. We submitted a labeling plan to the FDA along with new package labeling to comply with the changes in the FDA Tobacco Act in April 2010 and have supplemented those materials since that time. Although the FTC no longer has authority over the labeling for smokeless tobacco products, it does have concurrent jurisdiction with the FDA over advertising claims made for tobacco products as well as jurisdiction over claims made for nutraceuticals and other OTC products. The FTC requires that all claims for such products be adequately substantiated. Violations can result in cease and desist orders and consumer redress, such as refunds, among other things. 15 Table of Contents Tax and Trade Bureau Manufacturers and importers of tobacco products are taxed pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Tax and Trade Bureau, or TTB under authority of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Our tobacco products are subject to tax under such regulations. The Federal excise tax rate for smokeless tobacco is $1.51 per pound. The manufacturing of tobacco products is also subject to regulation by the TTB. We currently have a license from the TTB to manufacture smokeless tobacco products at our Chase City, Virginia facility. Our TTB license requires that we adhere to strict regulations regarding the manufacturing and transportation of our tobacco products. Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act In October 2004, Congress passed the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004, or FSC/ETI, which provides for the end of the federal tobacco quota program by means of a $10 billion buyout of the tobacco quota system that is being financed by assessments on tobacco manufacturers. The buyout is paid for by all tobacco manufacturers over a ten-year period based on each company’s percentage of sales. The apportionment of responsibility for payments to quota holders is approximately 96% to cigarette manufacturers, and the remaining 4% is divided among other tobacco product manufacturers, based on market share. Given the low volume of sales of our dissolvable low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products to date, the fact that 96% of the assessment for the tobacco quota payment is directed towards cigarette sales, and the discontinuation of our cigarette operations in June, 2007, our payment obligations under the FSC/CTI were negligible in 2010. Absent a substantial increase in our sales of smokeless tobacco products, we believe that our payment obligations under the FSC/CTI should also be de minimis in 2011. State and Municipal Laws The sale of smokeless tobacco is taxed in most jurisdictions. One state has no excise tax on smokeless tobacco and the rates in other states vary significantly from state to state using formulas based on weight or on a percentage of the wholesale price of the product. For example, the states of Alabama and Maine tax smokeless products at a rate of $0.12 per ounce and $2.02 per ounce, respectively, while the states of South Carolina and Wisconsin impose an excise tax of 5.0% and 100% of wholesale cost, respectively. In addition, some states permit municipalities to impose an additional sales tax, and many municipalities do so. The state and municipal sales taxes are imposed upon wholesalers and/or retailers but not on manufacturers, and therefore we have no liability for such taxes. In November 1998, 46 states and the District of Columbia, or the Settling States, entered into the Master Settlement Agreement, or MSA, to resolve litigation that had been instituted against the major tobacco manufacturers. We did not join the MSA and as a non-participating manufacturer, we were required to satisfy certain escrow obligations pursuant to statutes that the MSA required the Settling States to adopt in order for such states to receive the full benefits of the settlement. On March 14, 2007, we sold the rights, title and interest in and to all income from and reversionary interest in our MSA escrow accounts, including our 2006 MSA escrow deposits made in April 2007. Although we sold the rights in and to all income from and reversionary interest in the funds deposited into the MSA escrow accounts for the years up to and including 2006, these MSA escrow funds remain in our name and the principal amount of these accounts will be available to satisfy portions of any state judgments or settlements for the type of claims asserted against the major tobacco manufacturers in the suits that resulted in the negotiation of the MSA, if such claims are successfully asserted in litigation against us as a result of our prior sale of cigarettes. In May 2007, we entered into a license agreement with Tantus for the exclusive licensing of our cigarette trademarks Sport ®, MainStreet® and GSmoke®. We ceased manufacturing cigarettes in June 2007 and, thereafter, we withdrew the certifications for cigarette sales that we previously had obtained in all applicable Settling States. Given the discontinuation of our cigarette operations in June 2007 we did not have any MSA obligation for cigarette sales in MSA states since 2007 and do not anticipate having MSA escrow obligations in the future. World Health Organization Global Public Health Advocacy; Framework Convention on Tobacco Control Members of our management team testified in October 2000, at the World Health Organization, or WHO, public hearings in Geneva, Switzerland on the structure of a Global Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, or FCTC. In that testimony we reiterated our support for reasoned regulation of all tobacco products in the U.S. and worldwide to create a more rational environment in which toxicity reduction rather than marketing creativity would determine relevant market share. Members of our management team also testified before the WHO Scientific Advisory Committee on Tobacco Product Regulation in February 2001, and reiterated our support for reasoned world-wide tobacco regulation within the FCTC-proposed structure. On February 27, 2005, the FCTC went into effect. Although the U.S. signed the FCTC in May 2004, the White House has not sent the Treaty to the Senate for ratification by the requisite two-thirds majority. The State Department has reported that it is reviewing the FCTC for legal issues, particularly those impacting on “commercial free speech”. The U.S. has opposed the blanket advertising prohibitions in the FCTC, although prior to promulgation of the FCTC, nations with commercial free speech protections could have opted out of that provision in the treaty and retained the ability to become a signatory to the FCTC. To date, 172 of the 195 nations that signed the FCTC have ratified this comprehensive document. 16 Table of Contents UK Royal College of Physicians Statement on Tobacco Regulation and Statement on European Union Policy on Smokeless Tobacco In December 2002, the British Royal College of Physicians issued a report titled “Protecting Smokers, Saving Lives.” In that report, the Royal College of Physicians concluded that “the consumption of non-combustible tobacco is in the order of 10-1,000 times less hazardous than smoking, depending on the product.” In February 2003, an independent group of researchers and public health educators issued a report titled: “European Union Policy on Smokeless Tobacco — A Statement in Favor of Evidence-Based Regulation.” In this report, the researchers called on the European Union, or EU, to reconsider the ban on smokeless tobacco products applicable to all EU members except Sweden, which received an exemption when it joined the EU in 1992. As stated in the report, the request to lift the ban was made in part because “smokeless tobacco is substantially less harmful than smoking, and evidence from Sweden suggest it is used as a substitute for smoking.” In 2002, Swedish Match challenged the validity of the EU’s ban on the sale of smokeless tobacco products in all member countries in Great Britain’s High Court. The British High Court stayed the proceeding and referred the challenge to the EU’s High Court of Justice. Oral arguments were heard in September 2004, during which Swedish Match pointed out that maintaining a prohibition of the sale of snus did not take into account the development of scientific information about the relatively decreased health risks associated with oral tobacco use as compared to data relating to the health risks associated with smoking. In December 2004, the EU High Court ruled that the prohibition, while in need of reformulation by the EU legislature, continues to be valid in principle. The Tobacco Advisory Group of the UK Royal College of Physicians also issued a report in October 2008, “Ending Tobacco Smoking in Britain: Radical Strategies for Prevention and Harm Reduction in Nicotine Addiction.” One of the major premises of the report argues again that harm reduction strategies offer a major opportunity to reduce the prevalence and health impact of smoking. The report identifies “compressed smokeless tobacco” as a harm reduction product. Product Liability In the United States, there have been numerous and well-publicized lawsuits against the largest manufacturers of cigarettes and other tobacco products initiated by state and municipal governmental units, healthcare providers and insurers, individuals (for themselves and on a class-action basis) and by others. The legal theories underlying such lawsuits are varied, but are generally based on one or more of the following: (i) that manufacturer defendants have deceived consumers about the health risks associated with tobacco product consumption; (ii) such defendants knew or should have known about various harmful ingredients of their products and failed to adequately warn consumers about the potential harmful effects of those ingredients; and (iii) such defendants knew of the addictive attributes of nicotine and have purposefully manipulated their product ingredients so as to enhance the delivery of nicotine. We believe that we have conducted our business in a manner that decreases the risk of liability in a lawsuit of the type described above because we: • have attempted to consistently present to the public the most current information regarding the health risks of long-term smoking and tobacco use generally; • have always acknowledged the addictive nature of nicotine; • have never targeted adolescent or young persons as customers; • have not advertised our cigarette products to consumers except for point-of-sale materials; • have conducted research on the chemical or other constituents of our products only in the course of efforts to reduce the delivery of toxins; • have stated unequivocally that smoking involves a range of serious health risks, is addictive, and that smoked cigarettes products can never be produced in a “safe” fashion; • did not produce our own brands of cigarettes until the mid-1990s, and our sales volumes were never substantial in relation to the volume generated by the major manufacturers; and • discontinued our cigarette operations in June 2007, in favor of our very low-TSNA dissolvable smokeless tobacco products. 17 Table of Contents In the past, we maintained product liability insurance only with respect to claims that tobacco products manufactured by or for us contained any foreign object (i.e., any object that is not intended to be included in the manufactured product). We currently do not maintain such insurance. The product liability insurance previously maintained did not cover health-related claims such as those that have been made against the major manufacturers of tobacco products. We do not believe that insurance for health-related claims can currently be obtained. Although to date, no health-related lawsuit has ever been filed against us, a lawsuit based on such claims could have a materially adverse effect upon our company. Prior to the introduction of CigRx® we obtained product liability insurance for CigRx® as a nutraceutical product. This insurance covers claims arising from product defects or claims arising out of the sale, distribution and marketing of our CigRx® product. There have been no claims asserted with respect to our CigRx® product. If any such claims are asserted in the future and ultimately result in liability that exceeds the limits of our insurance coverage, this could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition. Our Employees and Consultants As of December 31, 2010, we employed 31 full-time employees, as compared to 39 employees as of December 31, 2009. From time to time, we engage temporary personnel to augment our regular employee staff. Further, we utilize the services of consultants, scientific and technical experts and, from time-to-time, independent contractors to provide key functions in the scientific, medical, public healthcare, compliance, technology, legal, communications, financial and related fields. The use of such third-party providers enables us to secure unique expertise on both a formal and informal basis in a wide variety of areas that we might otherwise not be in a position to obtain or which we would otherwise be required to obtain through the hiring of additional employees at a potentially greater cost to us. Substantially all of the our research and development efforts have been, and are expected to continue to be, conducted pursuant to contractual arrangements with universities, scientific, medical and public health consultants, independent investigators and research organizations. Internet Address and Internet Access to Periodic and Current Reports Our Internet address is www.starscientific.com. You may obtain through our Internet website, free of charge, copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, including any amendments to those reports or other information filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. These reports will be available as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. You can also obtain these reports directly from the SEC at their website, www.sec.gov, or you may visit the SEC in person at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at Station Place, 100 F. Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We will also provide a copy of our annual report on Form 10-K upon any written request by a shareholder. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have incurred losses for the past eight years and operating expenses are likely to continue to be greater than operating revenues in the foreseeable future. We have incurred operating losses for eight consecutive fiscal years beginning with the year ended December 31, 2003. Our net losses were approximately $(18.3) million for the year ended December 31, 2008, $(22.8) million for the year ended December 31, 2009 and $(28.3) million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2010 was approximately $(170.7) million. Additionally, a majority of our historical operating revenues have been derived from sales of our discount cigarettes. However, in May 2007, we entered into a license agreement with Tantus for the exclusive license of our trademarks MainStreet®, Sport® and GSmoke®, in return for licensing fees during the seven-year term of the license agreement and beyond, if the license is renewed. Although we retain the right to manufacture and sell other branded cigarettes, we discontinued the manufacture and sale of our discount cigarettes in June 2007 and are focusing our efforts in the tobacco area on the sale of low-TSNA dissolvable smokeless tobacco products and the licensing of the related technology, as opposed to cigarettes. In August 2010, we introduced CigRx®, a non-nicotine, non-tobacco nutraceutical, in the Richmond, Virginia area. Sales of CigRx® were de minimis in 2010 and it would take a substantial increase in sales of CigRx® and our dissolvable tobacco products for operating revenues to exceed expenses. 18 Table of Contents Our future prospects, therefore, are dependent on the expanded distribution and consumer acceptance of our low-TSNA dissolvable smokeless tobacco products as well as CigRx® our ability to support the expansion of the market for these products and the continued development of new low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, related pharmaceutical products and nutraceuticals, independently and through alliances with other tobacco manufacturers or pharmaceutical companies. Our future results of operations are also dependent on our ability to begin generating significant revenues through royalties from the patented tobacco curing process to which we are the exclusive licensee. However, our ability to generate revenues through sales of our smokeless tobacco products and the licensing of related products will substantially be dependent on the successful completion of our ongoing patent infringement lawsuit against RJR. In the future, we may not be able to secure financing necessary to operate and grow our business as planned. The recurring losses generated by our operations continue to impose significant demands on our liquidity. Over the last several years our liquidity demands have been met principally by private placements of our common stock and the cash exercise of related warrants and stock options. In 2010 our company received proceeds of approximately $27.8 million through private placements and we obtained an additional $11.0 million in private placement transactions subsequent to December 31, 2010. See note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included in “Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules” for further details of the latter transaction. Absent the exercise of outstanding warrants and options for cash or a substantial improvement in sales and revenues and/or royalties, we believe that the recent funding will support our operations through the first quarter 2012. Additionally, although options or warrants are currently or in the future may be in-the-money, there can be no assurances that holders of these derivatives will exercise these securitites. However, our business and operations may consume resources faster than we anticipate, and depending upon market conditions and the price of our common stock, we may decide to seek additional funds before that time. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund the expansion of our sales and marketing and research and development efforts or take advantage of other opportunities, which could seriously harm our business and operating results. If we issue additional equity securities, existing stockholders will experience dilution. Levels of market volatility have been unprecedented in recent years. The capital and credit markets experienced volatility and disruption at unprecedented levels in 2008 and 2009, which continued to a lesser extent in 2010. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If market disruption and volatility worsen in the future, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed and we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. Our future success will depend in part on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technologies contained in our products, and on successfully defending our patents and other intellectual property against third-party challenges. In particular, our success in commercially marketing our licensed tobacco curing technology and low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, and our development of tobacco-based pharmaceutical products to treat tobacco-related dependence and related products, depends in large part on our ability to protect the patents related to our low-TSNA technology for which we are the exclusive licensee, to obtain further patent protection for this technology in the United States and other jurisdictions, and to operate without infringing upon the patents and proprietary rights of others. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our proprietary rights. In particular, we have been prosecuting patent infringement claims against RJR in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland with respect to two patents used in our low-TSNA tobacco technology. Following remand from an earlier appeal to the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals, the case was tried to a jury in the District Court between May 18, 2009 and June 16, 2009. At the conclusion of the trial, the jury returned a verdict in favor of RJR holding that there was no infringement of the two patents at issue in the case and that the patents were invalid due to anticipation, obviousness, indefiniteness and failure to disclose best mode. We appealed the jury verdict to the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals in December 2010 and the case was argued before a three-judge panel of the Federal Circuit on January 11, 2011. We are currently awaiting a decision on the appeal. On May 29, 2009, we filed a new complaint against RJR for patent infringement during the period beginning 2003 through the filing date of the complaint. The future prosecution of the new complaint will be dependent on our achieving a reversal of the jury verdict of invalidity in our initial RJR action, which is uncertain at this time. 19 Table of Contents Also, since 2008 Rock Creek has developed several processes and product formulations relating to our non-nicotine nutraceutical (CigRx®), a relapse prevention product and a compound (RCP006) that may be useful in maintaining a healthy metabolism. In 2010, Rock Creek filed three patent applications relating to our CigRx® product, and a patent application for a relapse prevention product. Further, there are several provisional patent applications pending that we expect to mature into one or more non-provisional patent applications relating to the administration of anatabine, or an isomer or salt thereof, for treating chronic inflammation that may be associated with disorders such as thyroiditis, cancer, arthritis, Alzheimer’s disease, and multiple sclerosis. We believe this technology will be important for our business going forward, however, there can be no assurances that we will be able to mature these provisional patent applications into non-provisional applications or that any related non-provisional patent applications will be granted. We do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek through our existing patents or patent applications that are pending, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable, if challenged. If we fail to obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property, or if any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, others could use our intellectual property without compensating us, resulting in harm to our business. We may also determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a third party’s products or patents in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent interferences or reexaminations. In the event that we seek to enforce any of our owned or exclusively licensed patents against an infringing party, it is likely that the party defending the claim will seek to invalidate the patents we assert. If successful this could result in the loss of the entire patent or the relevant portion of our patent, which would not be limited to any particular party. Any litigation to enforce or defend our patent rights, even if we were to prevail, could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products without infringing any of our patent or other intellectual property rights, or may design around our proprietary technologies. U.S. patents and patent applications may also be subject to interference proceedings and U.S. patents may be subject to reexamination proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Foreign patents may be subject to opposition or comparable proceedings in the corresponding foreign patent offices, and those proceedings could result in either loss of the patent or denial of the patent application, or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of the patent or patent application. In addition, such interference, reexamination and opposition proceedings may be costly. Thus, any patents that we own or license from others may provide limited or no protection against competitors. Our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties, may not result in patents being issued. If issued, they may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. We may also rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how to maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, suppliers and others. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached or terminated, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. Our growth strategy anticipates that we will create new products and distribution channels and expand existing distribution channels for our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, for CigRx® and for other products developed by Rock Creek. Our future growth is also heavily dependent upon increased consumer acceptance of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, CigRx® and other non-nicotine nutraceuticals and pharmaceutical products, as well as on increased demand to license our related technology. If we are unable to effectively manage these initiatives, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. Our long-term growth strategy includes an increased focus on the sales and marketing of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff®, our dietary supplement CigRx® and the introduction of other non-nicotine nutraceuticals and tobacco-based pharmaceuticals as well as the receipt of royalty fees for the licensing of our patented technology for producing low-TSNA tobacco. However, to date sales of our smokeless tobacco products and CigRx®, as well as our ability to derive revenue from the licensing of our low-TSNA technology, have been de minimis. 20 Table of Contents Additionally, our success will be dependent on our ability to develop other non-nicotine products that may be helpful to consumers in maintaining a healthy metabolism, as well as tobacco-based pharmaceutical products. The introduction of pharmaceutical products will require a substantial period of time in order to obtain FDA approval to market such products. As a result, we do not anticipate introducing any pharmaceutical products into the market for the foreseeable future but will focus on the research and development aspects of a range of pharmaceuticals, including tobacco-based drug products, in addition to the development of non-nicotine nutraceutical products. Assuming that we are successful in introducing such products into the market, the success of those products and the success of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products and CigRx® will depend on the willingness and ability of retail customers to market and sell our products to consumers, as well as our success in developing new distribution channels for those products. If our significant retail customers or independent distributors were to reduce the quantity of any of our smokeless tobacco products they currently sell or stop selling our products, or if we are unable to open distribution channels for our new products, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. It is not certain whether CigRx® or our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products will be accepted by the market in sufficient volume to support our operations. Adult tobacco users may decide not to purchase our products due to taste or other preferences, including a preference for our competitor’s products or because of the extensive health warnings contained on the packaging for our tobacco products. There can be no assurance that in the future our competitors will not succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective than the products we develop, that are less toxic than our products, or that would render our products obsolete or non-competitive. Further, an inability to successfully increase consumer awareness of and demand for our very low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products would negatively affect our ability to license our patented technology for producing low-TSNA tobacco. This accordingly would materially diminish our ability to derive royalty fees from the license of this technology. If we are unable to license our patented technology for producing low-TSNA tobacco, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our efforts to successfully market CigRx® and ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® also will require the expenditure of substantial funds that we will need to obtain from external financing, the availability of which cannot be assured, and ultimately these products may not be accepted in the national marketplace. If we are not successful in our efforts to offer CigRx® or our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products to adults as alternatives to cigarettes and other smokeless products, to generate revenue through the license of the related technology to which we are the exclusive licensee or to introduce new nutraceutical and pharmaceutical products, we will not have sufficient sales volumes to support our operations. We are subject to increased regulation relating to our tobacco products as a result of the FDA assuming jurisdiction over all tobacco products under the FDA Tobacco Act. The FDA Tobacco Act, which went into effect on June 22, 2009, provides a new division within the FDA (The Center for Tobacco Products) with. broad authority over the manufacturing, sale and distribution of tobacco products including expanded control over the introduction of new tobacco products, warnings that must be included on all tobacco products and the manner in which tobacco products may be marketed and sold. Many of the changes specified in the FDA Act will be implemented gradually over a period of several years. We have sought to comply with these requirements by registering with the FDA as a tobacco manufacturer and taking other steps to comply with the FDA Tobacco Act requirements with respect to the manufacture, sale and marketing of our low-TSNA smikelsss tobacco products. Also, in 2010 we filed applications seeking to have varients of our ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® products (Ariva-BDL™ and Stonewall-BDL™) approved as “modified risk products”. We filed a similar application for a Stonewall Moist-BDL™ product in February, 2011. Those applications are pending. If we are not successful in meeting the requirements of the FDA Tobacco Act with respect to our current low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, or obtaining approval to market any new tobacco products, our effort to expand the distribution and sales of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products or other tobacco products could be adversely affected which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The tobacco industry as well as the market for non-nicotine tobacco alternatives are highly competitive, we may not be able to effectively compete in these markets and our competitors may develop technology for the production of low-TSNA tobacco that does not infringe on the technology to which we are the exclusive licensee, or they may develop technology for low-TSNA tobacco or other cigarette alternatives that could make our technology obsolete. Virtually all flue-cured tobacco grown in the United States since 2001 has been cured in a manner to reduce the levels of TSNAs. If our competitors produce low-TSNA tobacco that does not infringe on the technology to which we are the exclusive licensee, or develop other tobacco products with less toxins that can compete with our very low-TSNA products, this could adversely affect our operating income and cash flows. 21 Table of Contents The tobacco industry is highly competitive. STONEWALL Hard Snuff® competes with major manufacturers of smokeless tobacco products and ARIVA® competes with traditional cigarette manufacturers because ARIVA® is positioned as an alternative to cigarettes in situations where adult cigarette users cannot or choose not to smoke. Those companies generally have substantially greater financial and operating resources than we do. Also, these companies have a more established presence in the smokeless tobacco industry than we do. Certain of the major cigarette makers are marketing alternative cigarette products. For example, Philip Morris has developed an alternative cigarette called Accord in which the tobacco is heated rather than burned. RJR has developed an alternative cigarette called Eclipse in which the tobacco is primarily heated, with only a small amount of tobacco burned. Vector Tobacco Inc. developed a cigarette offered in several packings with declining levels of nicotine, called Quest. Further, in 2006 and 2007, both Philip Morris and RJR introduced into test market smokeless tobacco pouch products designed to provide alternatives to cigarettes that utilize their primary brand names (Marlboro Snus and Camel Snus, respectively), and other smokeless tobacco manufactures have introduced products that claim to have reduced levels of carcinogens. In 2009 Altria, Philip Morris’s parent company expanded its role in the smokeless tobacco market through its acquisition of UST. Also, in 2009 RJR introduced into test market three dissolvable smokeless tobacco products that compete directly with our ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® low-TSNA dissolvable smokeless tobacco products. If these initiatives are successful or if our competitors develop new technology for low-TSNA tobacco for use in smokeless tobacco products, we will be subject to increased competition for market share and our current technology for the production of low-TSNA tobacco could become obsolete. CigRx® may compete with both FDA approved smoking cessation products and neutraceutical tobacco alternatives. Smoking cessation products that are approved by the FDA for sale in the United States are designed to wean the smoker from nicotine addiction over a period of time and are marketed by the leading pharmaceutical companies as alternatives to cigarettes. Also there are other tobacco alternatives, such as E-cigarettes, and non-nicotine nutraceuticals that are marketed as assisting to maintain a nicotine free metabolism or to balance metabolism in the absence of nicotine. Many companies marketing smoking cessation products or related neutraceutical alternatives have substantially greater financial and operating resources than we do. To the extent competitors in these markets are able to develop products that are accepted as tobacco alternatives, the sale of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products could be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We may not be successful in introducing and marketing our non-nicotine, non-tobacco CigRx® product. We introduced into test market in August 2010 CigRx®, a non-nicotine nutraceutical product that is intended to temporarily reduce the desire to smoke Currently CigRx® is being sold through an interactive website, an infomercial and, to a limited extent, through direct retail sales. Our success in marketing CigRx® will be dependent on consumer acceptance of this product and our ability to have the product sold to consumers principally through our website and though infomercials. If we are not able to attract interest in the product at the consumer level, expand on the distribution channels for CigRx® or compete with other companies marketing alternatives to tobacco products our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Sales of tobacco products have been declining, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and cash flows. The overall U.S. market for cigarettes has generally been declining in terms of volume of sales, as a result of restrictions on advertising and promotions; funding of smoking prevention campaigns; increases in regulation and excise taxes; a decline in the social acceptability of smoking, and other factors, and sales are expected to continue to decline. While the sales of smokeless tobacco products have been increasing over the last several years, the smokeless tobacco market is substantially smaller than the cigarette market. Prior to our exit from the discount cigarette business, we experienced a similar decline in sales of our discount cigarette products, and this downward trend may adversely impact our ability to sell and market our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products or CigRx® as an alternative to cigarettes. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We may face delays in obtaining very low-TSNA tobacco or other raw materials to adequately manufacture our products. As a result of the discontinuation of our business relationship with B&W, and the ongoing burden and expense of the pending patent infringement litigation with RJR, during 2007 we sold approximately 990 tobacco curing barns used for the production of our low-TSNA StarCured® tobacco. We sold our remaining 37 StarCured® tobacco curing barns in December 2009 to growers who had previously participated in the StarCured® program. While we currently do not own any StarCured® barns, we have a significant amount of StarCured® tobacco in inventory and access to StarCured® tobacco through growers who previously participated in our StarCured® tobacco curing program. However, given the sale of our remaining barns, we cannot be assured that we will have sufficient availability to curing barns to meet future demand for our low-TSNA tobacco, particularly if the sales volumes of our very low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products substantially increase over a short period of time. Further, in the event that we are unable to obtain adequate amounts of StarCured® tobacco and other raw materials to meet product demands, our customers may seek to fulfill their supply needs by purchasing competing brands, which in turn would reduce our market share and ability to successfully commercialize our very low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 22 Table of Contents We may face disruptions relating to the manufacture and sale of CigRx® based on the fact that we have arranged for third parties to manufacture and distribute CigRx®. In order to facilitate the launch of CigRx® and limit capital expenditures, we have outsourced the manufacturing, storage, order processing and delivery of CigRx® through contracts and arrangements with a number of third-party suppliers. We anticipate that the arrangements that have been put in place with these various entities should be sufficient to meet our manufacturing and distribution needs for CigRx® for the foreseeable future. However, these contractors may experience delays or disruptions that could adversely impact on their ability to meet our manufacturing and distribution needs. In the event that our third-party contractors are unable to meet our needs, we would need to find alternative sources for the manufacturing and/or distribution of CigRx®, which may be difficult to obtain in a timely and cost effective manner, or at all. Also, if sales volumes for CigRx® increase substantially over a short period of time, our current contractors may have difficulty meeting our manufacturing and supply demands. In the event we are not able to obtain adequate amounts of CigRx® or if we are not able to supply product to consumers on a timely basis, our customers may seek to fulfill their supply needs by purchasing competing products, which, in turn would reduce our market share and ability to successfully commercialize CigRx®, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our research & development efforts may not result in commercially viable products and may continue to be curtailed by our lack of available research funds. Our company’s long-term focus is the research, development, manufacturing and licensing of technology that can lessen reliance on and the impact of the use of all forms of tobacco, reduce the range of serious health hazards associated with the use of smoked and smokeless tobacco and more generally assist consumers in maintaining a health metabolism. We have pursued these objectives through the production of very low-TSNA tobacco and the development of dissolvable smokeless tobacco products, Also, through Rock Creek we have pursed the development of our non-nicotine, non-tobacco nutraceutical CigRx® and ongoing research and development efforts directed to botanical based products for the treatment of tobacco dependence, products that would utilize certain MAO agents in tobacco to treat a range of neurological conditions, including Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, schizophrenia and depression as well as non-nicotine nutraceuticals. Our current and future product development initiatives will be substantially dependent on our ability to continue our research initiatives and to obtain the funding necessary to support these initiatives. Our inability to continue these initiatives and initiate new research and development efforts could result in a failure to develop new products or to improve upon existing products, which could have a material and adverse impact on our sales, operating income and cash flows. We are subject to risks inherent in new product development initiatives, particularly with respect to our goal of developing pharmaceutical products to treat tobacco-related dependence and other neurological conditions, which are subject to FDA regulation and approval, and for related products such as nutraceuticals. Our future success is substantially dependent upon implementation of our business strategy related to our new product initiatives. Since 2007, through our Rock Creek subsidiary, we have been exploring the development of botanical-based products for the treatment of tobacco dependence, as well as products that would utilize certain MAO agents in tobacco to treat a range of neurological conditions, including Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, schizophrenia and depression. Rock Creek also has been involved in pursuing the development of a non-nicotine nutraceutical product that was introduced in 2010 under the name CigRx® and other nutraceuticals that could be used to support a healthy metabolism. The ongoing product development initiatives of Rock Creek are subject to high levels of risk, uncertainties and contingencies, including the challenges inherent in new product development, FDA regulatory approval for any new pharmaceutical products that we develop and FDA regulatory oversight for nutraceuticals. Since the passage of the FDA Tobacco Act, all tobacco products are now regulated under the FDA Tobacco Act. They are also, subject to multiple, overlapping federal and state regulations and products derived from tobacco could be classified as tobacco products or drug products depending on their chemical composition, intended use and claims. 23 Table of Contents Additionally, the Dietary Supplement Health Education Act, DSHEA, provides the FDA with authority over the production and marketing of dietary supplements. In certain cases DSHEA also requires notification to the FDA before a company begins to market a dietary supplement and, if structure or function claims are made for a product in the product labeling, notification of such claims within thirty days of the introduction of the product into commerce. DSHEA also implements significant manufacturing and marketing requirements, including that dietary supplements be manufactured under “good manufacturing practices” and that the label, labeling and advertising for such products meet specific requirements. DSHEA does not require prior approval by the FDA for the introduction of dietary supplements into the market, but does require that the nutraceutical products being developed by our Rock Creek subsidiary comply with the requirements of DSHEA prior to and after their introduction into commerce. If products are manufactured and sold as dietary supplements it is possible that FDA may challenge the status of a product classification. FDA may also challenge the types of claims made for a dietary supplement or its indications for use and the FTC also has jurisdiction over advertising of nutraceuticals and other OTC products. In marketing CigRx®, we will have to comply with the requirements of DSHEA, which could impact the time required to fully commercialize this product. We do not have any pharmaceutical products cleared or approved for commercialization and we do not expect to obtain approval for any drug products for the foreseeable future. The future success of our pharmaceutical, and to a more limited extent, our neutriceutical, business will depend on our ability to obtain regulatory clearance or approval to market new drug products and our ability to comply with statutory and regulatory requirements for any nutraceuticals products, create product sales, successfully introduce new products, establish our sales force and distribution network, and obtain access to additional working capital to finance our development initiatives, all of which we may be unable to realize. Additionally, if any dietary supplement developed by us is determined to be a pharmaceutical product, as opposed to a dietary supplement, the product would need to be submitted to the FDA for approval as a new drug prior to it being sold in the United States. Even if we develop a viable pharmaceutical product, we may not obtain or maintain the necessary FDA approvals for our product, or such approvals may be delayed, which would mean that we would be unable to commercially distribute and market our product. The process of seeking regulatory clearance or approval to market a pharmaceutical product is expensive and time consuming and, notwithstanding the effort and expense incurred, clearance or approval is never guaranteed. Also, the FDA has substantial discretion in the drug approval process. We cannot market a drug product in the United States unless it has been approved by the FDA. The FDA approval process involves, among other things, successfully completing clinical trials under an IND and obtaining a premarket approval after filing a NDA. Clinical trials are expensive and uncertain. The NDA process would require us to prove the safety and efficacy of our product to the FDA’s satisfaction. If our clinical trials fail to produce sufficient data to support an NDA, it will take us longer to ultimately commercialize a product and generate revenue, or the delay could result in our being unable to do so. Moreover, our development costs will increase if, to achieve sufficient data to support an NDA, we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. Even if we are successful in developing a pharmaceutical product, if we are not successful in obtaining timely clearance or approval of the product from the FDA, we may never be able to generate sufficient revenue to support the successful commercialization of the product. Also any FDA approved product will be subject to continuing review and the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising and promotion of any such product will be subject to extensive regulation. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our retail customers or independent distributors selling our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products and a loss or material reduction in their business with us could result in reduced sales of our products. Our success in marketing our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products is dependent upon the willingness and ability of retail customers to market and sell our products to consumers, as well as our success in developing new channels for our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. If any of our significant retail customers or independent distributors were to reduce the quantity of the products we sell, or to stop selling our products, or if we are unable to open new distribution channels for our products, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our retail customers and independent distributors generally purchase products from us on a purchase-order basis and do not have long-term contracts with us. Consequently, with little or no notice and without penalty, our retail customers and independent distributors may terminate their relationships with us or materially reduce the level of their purchases of our products. If this were to occur with one or more retail customers or independent distributors, who purchase significant quantities of our products, it may be difficult for us to establish substitute relationships in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on domestic sales of CigRx® and our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. All of our revenues are currently derived from domestic sales of CigRx® and our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. The overall market for tobacco products in the U.S. has been declining on a year-to-year basis for the last several years, even as the market for smokeless tobacco products has been growing. Because CigRx® and our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products are being marketed only in the U.S., we do not currently have access to any foreign markets, which access could help offset the impact of declining sales of tobacco products in the U.S. 24 Table of Contents If we experience product recalls, we may incur significant and unexpected costs and our business reputation could be adversely affected. We may be exposed to product recalls and adverse public relations if our nutraceuticals products or our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products are alleged to cause illness or injury, or if we are alleged to have violated governmental regulations. A product recall could result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, which could reduce operating profits and cash flow. In addition, a product recall may require significant management time and attention and may adversely impact on the value of our brands. Product recalls may lead to greater scrutiny by federal or state regulatory agencies and increased litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The tobacco industry is subject to substantial and increasing regulation and taxes with respect to the sale and marketing of its products. The FDA Tobacco Act provides The Center for Tobacco Products, a new division within the FDA, with broad authority over the manufacturing, sale and distribution of tobacco products including expanded control over the introduction of new tobacco products, warnings that must be included on all tobacco products and the manner in which tobacco products may be marketed and sold.. The FDA Tobacco Act also provides for the establishment of a Scientific Advisory Committee that, among other initiatives, has been designated to undertake an analysis of dissolvable tobacco products and to provide a report on such products within two years from the date on which this committee was first convened. As currently implemented, we do not believe the FDA Tobacco Act presents a material risk to our business activities, but there is no assurance that the current legislation as implemented by the FDA will not limit or delay our future initiatives or that difficulties and/or delays in obtaining approvals from the FDA will not have an adverse impact on our ability to market our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products and the applications that we have filed to have variants of our existing products designated as “modified risk tobacco products”. We have a license from the TTB to manufacture smokeless tobacco products.. To the extent that we are unable to maintain our current TTB license or to obtain any additional licenses required by the TTB, this could materially and adversely affect our operations. Also, we are subject to assessments based on our sales volume to cover a portion of the fund established in 2004 to compensate growers and quota holders at the time that the U.S. Congress eliminated the federal tobacco quota system and price support system. While the impact of this legislation is less significant in relation to the sale of smokeless tobacco products than for cigarettes, if sales of our smokeless tobacco products increase substantially, we would have increased obligations during the ten-year period in which the buyout program is in effect. The federal excise tax on smokeless tobacco products is substantially lower than the excise tax for cigarettes, but smokeless tobacco products are subject to substantial and increasing excise taxes. The current federal excise tax for snuff is $1.51 per pound. It is possible that increased use of smokeless tobacco products could result in more stringent regulation and higher taxes. Recently a number of states have considered increases in state excise taxes on smoked and smokeless tobacco products. At the state level the rate of tax on smokeless tobacco varies significantly. For example, one state imposes no tax on smokeless tobacco products while another state imposes a tax of $2.02 per ounce. New or increased excise taxes or restrictions on the use of tobacco products may result in declines in sales volume for the industry generally, and our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products in particular, which could adversely affect our operating income and cash flows. We have had substantial obligations under state laws adopted under the Master Settlement Agreement. In November 1998, 46 states and the District of Columbia, or the Settling States, entered into the Master Settlement Agreement, or MSA, to resolve litigation that had been instituted against the major tobacco manufacturers. We did not join the MSA and while we manufactured and sold cigarette products we were required to satisfy certain escrow obligations pursuant to statutes that the MSA required the Settling States to adopt in order for such states to receive the full benefits of the settlement. We discontinued the sale of any cigarette products in June 2007 and we sold the rights, title and interest in and to all income from and reversionary interest in our MSA escrow accounts in May 2007. Although we sold the rights in and to all income from and reversionary interest in the funds deposited into the MSA escrow accounts for sales through 2006, these MSA escrow funds remain in our name and the principal amount of these accounts will be available to satisfy portions of any state judgments or settlements for the type of claims asserted against the major tobacco manufacturers in the suits that resulted in the negotiation of the MSA. However, if such claims are successfully asserted in litigation against us in the future, the claims could exceed the amounts that have been deposited into escrow under the MSA which could adversely affect our operating income and cash flows. 25 Table of Contents We have many potentially dilutive derivative securities outstanding and the issuance of these securities as well as the future sales of our common stock would have a dilutive effect on current stockholders. At March 15, 2011, we had outstanding options granted to directors, employees and consultants to purchase approximately 8,620,200 shares of our common stock, with a weighted-average exercise price of $2.31 per share, of which options for 8,220,200 shares were exercisable at March 15, 2011. We also have outstanding warrants, which are currently exercisable into 35,897,255 shares of our common stock, with a weighted-average exercise price of $1.75 per share. Exercise of outstanding stock options or warrants would cause dilution, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we issue additional shares of our common stock for sale in connection with future financings, our stockholders would experience further dilution. The combination transaction between RJR and B&W may negatively impact us. Under our prior agreements with B&W, B&W loaned us $29 million to fund our purchase of StarCured® tobacco curing barns. The balance on this loan was approximately $7.5 million as of December 31, 2010. Previously, B&W granted us a number of concessions under our loan agreement, including deferring interest and principal payments and consenting to our incurrence of additional indebtedness. In 2004 B&W and RJR completed a combination of their United States tobacco business through a new entity Reynolds American, Inc. We are currently involved in a significant patent infringement litigation with RJR, which, in effect, is the successor of the RJR and B&W combination. Although our current loan is unsecured, RJR’s failure to grant us concessions under our loan could have a number of adverse consequences, including restricting our pursuit of business opportunities with third parties, limiting our ability to raise funds through debt financing and requiring payment of our obligations in circumstances where we may not have sufficient funds available to do so. Since the combination of B&W and RJR, we have had no operational relationship with RJR and given our ongoing patent litigation against RJR, we do not anticipate that we would have the same type of cooperative relationship with RJR as we had with B&W, or that RJR would be inclined to grant concessions similar to those that we received from B&W. We may be assessed additional sales and use taxes by the Commonwealth of Virginia. In 2002, the Virginia Department of Taxation asserted a Virginia Sales and Use Tax assessment for the period January 1, 1999, through March 31, 2002, against us with respect to our tobacco-curing barns in the amount of $860,115. We applied for a correction of the assessment and a total abatement of the tax on the grounds that our barns are exempt from sales and use taxes under the industrial use and processing exemption and/or the agricultural exemption. In a letter dated October 7, 2004, our company received notification from the Commonwealth of Virginia that an adverse decision had been made by the Commissioner of Taxation with respect to the sales and use tax assessment previously issued to our company. On August 10, 2010 the Commonwealth of Virginia responded to our request for reconsideration of the state’s sales and use tax assessment with respect to our tobacco curing barns. The Commonwealth disagreed with our position that the barns are part of the manufacturing process and, therefore, exempt from sales and use taxes under the industrial use and processing exemption and/or the agricultural exemption, concluding that the barns are taxable under the Commonwealth’s sales tax laws and regulation. We disagree with the ruling by the Commissioner and intend to timely pursue this matter through all available means. The sales and use tax assessment plus penalties and interest together, as of December 31, 2010, totaled $1.5 million. Interest will continue to accrue during our continued pursuit of a resolution of this matter. Lawsuits may affect our profitability and we have limited insurance coverage for any damages for which we may become liable. We are not, nor have we ever been, named as a defendant in any legal proceedings involving claims arising out of the sale, distribution, manufacture, development, advertising, marketing and claimed health effects relating to the use of our tobacco products. While we believe that the risk of being named a defendant in such a lawsuit is relatively low, we may be named as a defendant in the future as there has been a noteworthy increase in the number of these cases pending. Punitive damages, often in amounts ranging into the hundreds of millions, or even billions of dollars, are asserted in a number of these cases in addition to compensatory and other damages. In the past, we maintained product liability insurance only with respect to claims that tobacco products manufactured by or for us contained any foreign object, i.e. any object that is not intended to be included in the manufactured product. We currently do not maintain such insurance. The product liability insurance we previously maintained did not cover health-related claims such as those that have been made against the major manufacturers of tobacco products. We currently do not have and do not believe that such insurance coverage for health-related claims can be obtained. If, in the future, we are named as a defendant in any actions related to our smokeless tobacco products, we will not have insurance coverage for damages relating to any such claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may also face lawsuits relating to our dietary supplement CigRx®, although CigRx® is not a tobacco product and does not contain nicotine. Prior to the introduction of CigRx®, we obtained product liability insurance for CigRx® as a nutraceutical product. This insurance covers claims arising from product defects or claims arising out of the sale, distribution and marketing of our CigRx® product. There have been no claims asserted with respect to the manufacturer, sale or use of our CigRx® product to date. If any such claims are asserted in the future and ultimately result in liability that exceeds the limits of our insurance coverage, this could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition. 26 Table of Contents If we do not effectively manage our growth, we may be unable to successfully develop, market and sell our products. Our future revenue and operating results will depend on our ability to manage the anticipated growth of our business. If we are successful in increasing market acceptance for our products, we will be required to manage substantial volume from our customers. To accommodate any such growth and compete effectively, we will be required to attract, integrate, motivate and retain additional highly skilled sales, technical and other employees. We face competition for these people. Our ability to successfully manage such volume also will be dependent on our ability to scale up our tobacco processing and production operations. Also, if we are successful in marketing our CigRx® dietary supplement we will have to maintain sufficient capacity for the contract manufacturing of the product and for its sales and distribution though third-party contractors. There can be no assurance that we can overcome the challenge of scaling up our processing and production operations, that our personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future operations or that we will be able to increase or secure additional capacity through third-party contractors for the manufacturing, sale and distribution of CigRx®. Any failure to implement and improve our operational, financial and management systems, to attract, integrate, motivate and retain additional employees required by future growth, if any, or to secure any needed capacity through third party contractors, if required, could have a material and adverse effect on our business and prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may lose our key personnel or fail to attract and retain additional personnel. We are highly dependent upon the continued services of our senior management team for our continued success. The loss of any one of Jonnie R. Williams, our Chief Executive Officer, Paul L. Perito, our Chairman, President and Chief Operating Officer, David M. Dean, our Vice President of Sales and Marketing, Park A. Dodd III, our Chief Financial Officer, Robert E. Pokusa, our General Counsel or Curtis Wright, M.D., MPH, Senior Vice-President Medical/Clinical Director of Rock Creek could have a serious negative impact on our business and operating results. Our future success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain, on a continuing basis, consulting services from highly qualified scientific, technical, management, financial and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development and operation of our business or that given the operating losses we have suffered over the past eight years we will have the financial ability to do so. The loss of the services of key personnel or the termination of relationships with independent scientific and medical investigators could have a material and adverse effect on our business. Our directors and executive officers own a large percentage of our voting stock, which allows them to exercise significant control over us, and they may make decisions with which you disagree. Based on stock ownership as of March 15, 2011, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates, own an aggregate of approximately 10.6% of our currently issued and outstanding common stock. As a result, these persons acting together may have the ability to influence matters submitted to our stockholders for approval and to control the management and affairs of our company. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, impede a merger, consolidation, or takeover or other business combination, or discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control. This concentration of control could also have a negative effect on the market price of our shares. 27 Table of Contents Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. The trading price of the shares of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. Our stock has traded at prices ranging from $0.51 to $3.84 for the period January 1, 2010 to March 15, 2011. We receive only limited attention from securities analysts and may experience an imbalance between supply and demand for our common stock resulting from low trading volumes. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control, including the following: • developments related to our patents or other proprietary rights, including developments in our litigation against RJR; • developments in our efforts to market smokeless tobacco products; • our success in marketing, CigRx®, our non-nicotine, non-tobacco smoking alternative designed to temporarily reduce the desire to smoke, related nutraceuticals designed to assist in maintaining a healthy metabolism, a pharmaceutical product to treat tobacco-related dependence and related pharmaceutical products; • announcements of new products, technological innovations, contracts, acquisitions, financings, corporate partnerships or joint ventures by us or our competitors; • negative regulatory action or regulatory approval with respect to our products or our competitors’ products; and • market conditions for the tobacco, pharmaceutical and dietary supplement industries in general. The stock market has, from time to time, and in particular over the last 24 months, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for small companies, and which have often been unrelated to their operating performance or prospects for future operations. These broad fluctuations may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price of our common stock. On November 5, 2009, we received a NASDAQ Staff Deficiency Letter, indicating that we were not in compliance with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing set forth in NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(1), because the bid price per share of the our common stock closed below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days. On March 16, 2010, we announced that we had received a notice from NASDAQ confirming that we were once again in compliance with the minimum bid price requirement and we have remained complaint with this requirement since that time. 28 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any written comments from the SEC staff regarding our company’s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or Current Reports on Form 8-K in the 180 days preceding December 31, 2010. 