ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This section highlights specific risks that could affect our company and its businesses. Readers should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our company. However, the risks and uncertainties our company faces are not limited to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events or if the circumstances described in the risks and uncertainties occur or continue to occur, these events or circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or liquidity. These events could also have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to our Financial Condition We expect to have limited product revenue in the foreseeable future. In 2013, almost all of our revenue was derived from sales of our Anatabloc ® dietary supplement. In late 2013, we announced that, while we expect to continue our nutraceutical supplement and cosmetic lines of business, we intend to shift to a greater focus on pharmaceutical products. The revenue generated from our nutraceutical supplement and cosmetic products has not historically exceeded our operating expenses, and given our shift in focus away from these lines of business, we do not expect such revenues to exceed operating expenses in the foreseeable future, particularly given the fact that the status of these products as dietary supplements is the subject of a warning letter that we received from the FDA in December 2013. We anticipate that our future revenue will be highly dependent on the successful development and commercialization of one or more new pharmaceutical products. We currently do not have any pharmaceutical product candidates in advance development stage, and there can be no assurance that we will ever develop a product candidate that will generate revenue. Even if we successfully develop one or more product candidates, until, and unless, we receive approval from the FDA, we will not be permitted to sell, and will not generate any revenue from, such drugs. We are not currently profitable and might never become profitable. We have a history of losses and expect to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future, and we might never achieve or maintain profitability. Our future prospects will be dependent on the successful development and commercialization of one or more new pharmaceutical products. We do not currently have any pharmaceutical products in advance development stage or on the market, and because it takes years to develop, test and obtain regulatory approval for pharmaceutical products before they can be sold, we likely will continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future. Our net losses were approximately $(38.0) million for the year ended December 31, 2011, $(22.9) million for the year ended December 31, 2012 and $(32.8) million for the year ended December 31, 2013. Our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2013 was approximately $(264.4) million. Actual losses will depend on a number of considerations, including: · the pace and success of drug development activities; · possible out-licensing of any product candidates we develop; · obtaining regulatory approvals for any product candidates we develop; · the pace of development of new intellectual property for any product candidates we develop; · implementing additional internal systems and infrastructure; · our ability to continue to market and sell our existing products; and · changes in existing staffing levels. To become and remain profitable, we must succeed in developing and commercializing drugs with significant market potential. This will require us to be successful in a range of challenging activities, including the development of product candidates, successful completion of preclinical testing and clinical trials of our product candidates, obtaining regulatory approval for these product candidates and manufacturing, marketing and selling those products for which we may obtain regulatory approval. We are only in the preliminary stages of these activities. We may never succeed in these activities and may never generate revenues that are large enough to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to become or remain profitable could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our product offerings or continue our operations. 16 We may not be able to secure financing necessary to operate and grow our business. The recurring losses generated by our operations continue to impose significant demands on our liquidity. Over the last several years our liquidity demands have been met principally by private placements of our common stock and from the exercise of related warrants and stock options. In 2013 our company received proceeds of approximately $7.7 million from warrant exercises. See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements included in “Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules” for further details of these transactions. On March 12, 2014, we entered into a series of equity and financing transactions that resulted in gross cash proceeds to our Company of approximately $9.3 million and cash availability under a credit facility of $5.8 million, for total funds available of $15.1 million. Under one transaction, holders of previously held warrants with strike prices ranging from $1.50 to $2.00 agreed to immediately exercise on an aggregate of 4.2 million warrants at a reduced strike price of $1.00 per share. The investors also were issued new warrants for an equal number of shares that have a term of seven years and a strike price of $1.00 per share. This transaction resulted in proceeds of approximately $4.2 million. Under another transaction we sold 5.1 million shares with matching warrants for 5.1 million shares to other investors at $1.00 for the shares and warrant shares. This transaction resulted in proceeds to us of $5.1 million. Finally, we entered into a credit facility with another investor under which that investor agreed to loan us up to $5.8 million (subject to certain limitations). The credit facility provides for an annual interest rate of 3% on any funds drawn by us. It also provides the lender with the option to convert any loan amount to a unit of our common stock and a matching seven-year warrant at a conversion price of $1.00 per unit. We believe that with this recent transaction we have sufficient funds to support our operations through the first quarter 2015. However, our business and operations may consume resources faster than we anticipate, and depending upon market conditions and the price of our common stock, we may decide to seek additional funds before that time. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our operations or the expansion of our research and development efforts, which could materially harm our business. Further, if we issue additional equity securities, existing stockholders will experience dilution. Risks Related to our Pharmaceutical Business Even if we file an IND, there can be no assurance that an IND will result in the actual initiation of clinical trials or that our products will ultimately be approved or achieve or maintain expected levels of market acceptance. In late 2013, we announced our intention to shift our focus to pharmaceutical products, given our belief in the potential for greater revenue growth through pharmaceutical product sales. However, we do not currently have any pharmaceutical products in the advance development stage, and we will be required to file an IND application related to any new pharmaceutical products we intend to introduce. While we intend to file IND applications during the second quarter 2014, the filing of an IND could be delayed if there is difficulty in assembling scientific data necessary to support the IND application. In addition, once an IND application is filed, the FDA could impose a regulatory hold on the initiation of clinical trials, if the FDA believes that the data supporting the IND are insufficient and marketing cannot begin until we obtain necessary data to submit an NDA and receive FDA approval. Even if we are able to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals for our new pharmaceutical products, generic or branded, the success of these products is dependent upon achieving and maintaining market acceptance. Commercializing products is time consuming, expensive and unpredictable. There can be no assurance that we will be able to, either by ourselves or in collaboration with partners or through licensees, successfully commercialize new products or gain market acceptance for such products. New product candidates that appear promising in development may fail to be approved or to reach the market or may have only limited or no commercial success. Further, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products that implicate (or are perceived to implicate) an entire class of products could have an adverse effect on the regulatory status of the products or sales of the affected products. Accordingly, new data about our products (particularly as related to the anatabine compound), or products similar to our products, could negatively impact FDA approval or demand for our products due to real or perceived side effects or uncertainty regarding efficacy and, in some cases, could result in product withdrawal. Any drug products that we bring to the market may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, third party payors, and others in the medical community. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate significant product revenue and we may not become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: · the prevalence and severity of any side effects, including any limitations or warnings contained in a product’s approved labeling; · the efficacy and potential advantages over alternative treatments; · the pricing of our product candidates; · relative convenience and ease of administration; · the willingness of the target patient population to try new therapies and of physicians to prescribe these therapies; · the strength of marketing and distribution support and timing of market introduction of competitive products; · publicity concerning our products or competing products and treatments; and · sufficient third party insurance coverage or reimbursement. Even if a potential product displays a favorable efficacy and safety profile in preclinical and clinical trials, market acceptance of the product will not be known until after it is launched. Our efforts to educate patients, the medical community, and third party payors on the benefits of our product candidates may require significant resources and may never be successful. Such efforts to educate the marketplace may require more resources than are required by the conventional technologies marketed by our competitors. The drug development business is very capital intensive, and our research and development efforts may be curtailed by our lack of available research funds. 17 The drug development business is very capital intensive, particularly for early stage companies that do not have significant off-setting revenues. Even if we are successful in filing an IND, our product development initiatives will be substantially dependent on our ability to continue our research initiatives and to obtain the funding necessary to support these initiatives. Our inability to continue these initiatives and initiate new research and development efforts could result in a failure to develop new products or to improve upon existing products, which could have a material and adverse impact on our sales, operating income and cash flows. If we are not successful in managing the preclinical development activities and clinical trials we might not be able to commercialize our products. We have not obtained regulatory approval nor commercialized any drug product candidates. Our limited experience might prevent us from successfully designing or implementing any clinical trials. If we are not successful in conducting and managing our pre-clinical development activities or clinical trials or obtaining regulatory approvals, we might not be able to commercialize our developmental product candidates, or might be significantly delayed in doing so, which may materially harm our business. Our drug development program may depend upon third-party researchers who are outside our control. We may depend upon independent clinical research organizations, investigators and other collaborators, such as universities and medical institutions, to conduct our preclinical and clinical trials under agreements with us. These collaborators may not be our employees and, if so, we will not be able to control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. They might not assign as great a priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking such programs ourselves. If outside collaborators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug development programs, if their performance is substandard or the FDA determines there are issues upon review of the study data, the approval of our FDA applications, if any, and our introduction of new drugs, if any, will be delayed. If we cannot successfully enter into new agreements with outside collaborators on acceptable terms, or if we encounter disputes over or cannot renew or, if necessary, amend existing agreements, the development of our drug candidates could be delayed. These collaborators might also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which might compete with us. If our collaborators assist our competitors at our expense, our competitive position may be harmed. We may be subject to competition from other dietary supplements that have anatabine as their active dietary ingredient. We expect much of our research and development efforts will focus on developing our anatabine compound as a potential drug candidate. Because anatabine is the principal compound for our dietary supplement products, there is risk that any pharmaceutical product that we develop with respect to anatabine may experience competition with other dietary supplements. See also “Regulatory Risks” below for additional risks related to our pharmaceutical business. Risks Related to our Nutraceutical Supplement and Cosmetic Lines of Business In response to our receipt of an FDA warning letter in December 2013, we have substantially limited the marketing and advertising of our dietary supplements. On December 24, 2013, we received a warning letter from the FDA regarding our CigRx® and Anatabloc® dietary supplements. In the letter, the FDA asserted that CigRx® and Anatabloc® were not properly marketed as dietary supplements, since we had not filed a New Dietary Ingredient Notification for anatabine as a dietary ingredient prior to the introduction of our dietary supplements. The FDA also claimed that certain materials on our websites, including published research articles, contained drug claims for Anatabloc®. We responded to the letter on January 31, 2014. We are currently communicating with the FDA in an effort to reach an amicable resolution of the issues asserted in the warning letter. In light of our receipt of the FDA letter, we have substantially limited the marketing and advertising of our dietary supplements. Moreover, if we are not able to resolve the issues raised by the FDA we may not be in a position to continue to market Anatabloc® and CigRx® as dietary supplements. Our inability to market our dietary supplements could materially adversely impact our business, particularly since the sale of supplements is our only source of substantive revenue. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing a “time-release” version of our Anatabloc® dietary supplement, or that such version will gain market acceptance. We had been developing a “time-release” version of our Anatabloc® dietary supplement. We are not proceeding with the development of a time-release version of Anatabloc® at this time. However, if we decide to move forward on a time-recourse product, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in ultimately bringing a time-release version of Anatabloc® to market and it is possible that we will not be able to introduce this product as a dietary supplement given the position taken by the FDA with respect to our current dietary supplements. If we were to introduce a time-release product, there can be no assurance that the supplement will gain market acceptance. We have limited retail or independent distributors selling our Anatabloc® dietary supplement and our cosmetic products and a loss or material reduction in our existing distribution channels could result in reduced sales of our products. 18 Anatabloc®, which is intended to provide anti-inflammatory support, is currently being sold through our interactive website, a customer service center and on a consignment basis through GNC, a retailer of dietary supplements. GNC initially sold Anatabloc ® through its online store and, beginning in late March 2012, GNC began carrying Anatabloc ® at its company-owned stores and franchised retail locations. Initially, marketing of Anatabloc ® was directed toward physicians and other healthcare professionals. More recently we have been focusing our marketing efforts on athletes and other groups of individuals who are frequently seeking to maintain healthy levels of inflammation. Through Rock Creek we have also been developing extensions of our Anatabloc ® product line. We introduced an unflavored version of Anatabloc ® in the second quarter 2012 and introduced into the market Anatabloc ® Facial Crème in September, 2012 as a cosmetic to improve the appearance of the skin and Anatabloc® Revitalizing Facial Serum and Anatabloc® Clarifying Facial Cleanser in 2013. Our Anatabloc® Facial Crème and Revitalizing Facial Serum are available at GNC’s online store and at select GNC franchise locations. Our success in marketing our dietary supplements and our cosmetic products will be dependent upon the willingness and ability of retail distributors to market and sell our products to consumers, as well as our success in developing new distribution channels for our dietary supplements and cosmetic products. If our distribution arrangement with GNC terminated or if GNC reduced the quantity of our products it carries or promotes, or if we are unable to open new distribution channels for our products, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Independent retailers and distributors generally purchase products from us on a purchase-order basis and do not have long-term contracts with us. Consequently, with little or no notice and without penalty, our independent retail and independent distributors may terminate their relationships with us or materially reduce the level of their purchases of our products. If this were to occur with one or more retail or independent distributors, who purchase significant quantities of our products, it may be difficult for us to establish substitute relationships in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on domestic sales of our Anatabloc® and CigRx® dietary supplements and for sales of our Anatabloc ® cosmetic products. Virtually all of our revenues beginning January 1, 2013 are derived from sales of our dietary supplements, Anatabloc® and CigRx® and our cosmetic products. While Anatabloc ® is available for shipment to numerous foreign countries outside the United States, sales outside the United States have been limited and we do not have any direct distribution arrangements for Anatabloc ® or our cosmetic products outside of the U.S. Our products are subject to ongoing FDA oversight. If we experience product recalls or regulatory action, we may incur significant and unexpected costs and our business reputation could be materially adversely affected. Dietary supplements are subject to a wide array of regulatory requirements which include, among others, compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations, labeling and marketing requirements, new dietary ingredient notifications, structure/function claims notification, adverse event reporting, and record keeping, Cosmetic products are subject to fewer regulatory requirements, but they must comply with the quality and labeling requirements prescribed by the FDA. Failure to comply with applicable FDA requirements could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including warning letters, product recalls, seizures, injunctions, or criminal prosecution. We may be exposed to product recalls and adverse public relations if our dietary supplement products or our cosmetic products are alleged to cause illness or injury, or if we are alleged to have violated governmental regulations. A product recall and/or responding to a regulatory action could result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, which could reduce operating profits and cash flow. In addition, a product recall may require significant management time and attention and may adversely impact the value of our brands. Product recalls may lead to greater scrutiny by federal or state regulatory agencies and increased litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may face disruptions relating to the manufacture and sale of Anatabloc®, CigRx ® and our Anatabloc® cosmetics based on the fact that we have arranged for third parties to manufacture and distribute these products. In order to facilitate the launch of Anatabloc®, CigRx® and our Anatabloc® cosmetics, and to limit capital expenditures, we have outsourced the manufacturing, storage, order processing and delivery of these products through contracts and arrangements with a number of third-party contractors. In a number of cases our arrangement with our contractors are on a sole source basis. If our contractors experience delays or disruptions that could adversely impact their ability to meet our manufacturing and distribution needs. In the event that our third-party contractors are unable to meet our needs, we would need to find alternative sources for the manufacturing and/or distribution of Anatabloc ®, CigRx ®, and our Anatabloc® cosmetics which may be difficult to obtain in a timely and cost effective manner, or at all. Also, if sales volumes for Anatabloc ® , CigRx ® and our Anatabloc® cosmetics increase substantially over a short period of time, our current contractors may have difficulty meeting our manufacturing and supply demands. In the event we are not able to obtain adequate amounts of Anatabloc ® , CigRx ® and our Anatabloc® cosmetics or if we are not able to supply product to consumers on a timely basis, our customers may seek to fulfill their supply needs by purchasing competing products, which, in turn, would reduce our market share and ability to successfully commercialize Anatabloc ® , CigRx ®, and our Anatabloc® cosmetics which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 19 Regulatory Risks If we are not able to obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals for any new pharmaceutical candidates we develop, we will not be able to commercialize such product candidates, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired. Any pharmaceutical business and any pharmaceutical product candidates we develop are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. Failure to adhere to regulations set out by these bodies for one or more of our commercial products could prevent us from commercializing the product candidate in the jurisdiction of the regulatory authority. We have only limited experience in meeting the regulatory requirements incumbent on the sale of drugs in the United States and elsewhere. If we fail to adequately adhere to the regulation on drug sales we may be unable to sell our products, which could have a material effect on our ability to generate revenue. Any product candidates and the activities associated with their development and commercialization, including testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, recordkeeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution, are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. Failure to obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate will prevent us from commercializing the product candidate in the jurisdiction of the regulatory authority. We have not obtained regulatory approval to market any product candidate in any jurisdiction. Securing FDA approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to the FDA for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate’s safety and efficacy. Securing FDA approval also requires the submission of information about the product manufacturing process to, and inspection of manufacturing facilities by, the FDA. Our future products may not be effective, may be only moderately effective or may prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that may preclude our obtaining regulatory approval or prevent or limit commercial use. Our product candidates may fail to obtain regulatory approval for many reasons, including: · our failure to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable regulatory authorities that a product candidate is safe and effective for a particular indication; · the results of clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or comparable regulatory authorities for approval; · our inability to demonstrate that a product candidate’s benefits outweigh its risks; · our inability to demonstrate that the product candidate presents an advantage over existing therapies; · the FDA’s or comparable regulatory authorities’ disagreement with the manner in which we interpret the data from preclinical studies or clinical trials; · the FDA’s or comparable regulatory authorities’ failure to approve the manufacturing processes, quality procedures or manufacturing facilities of third party manufacturers with which we contract for clinical or commercial supplies; and · a change in the approval policies or regulations of the FDA or comparable regulatory authorities or a change in the laws governing the approval process. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive, often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon a variety of factors, including the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved. Changes in regulatory approval policies during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional statutes or regulations, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. The FDA and non-United States regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that our data is insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of a product candidate. Any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post approval commitments that render the approved product not commercially viable. Any FDA or other regulatory approval of our product candidates, once obtained, may be withdrawn, including for failure to comply with regulatory requirements or if clinical or manufacturing problems follow initial marketing. We will need to obtain FDA approval of any proposed product brand names, and any failure or delay associated with such approval may adversely impact our business. A pharmaceutical product cannot be marketed in the U.S. or other countries until we have completed rigorous and extensive regulatory review processes, including approval of a brand name. Any brand names we intend to use for our product candidates will require approval from the FDA regardless of whether we have secured a formal trademark registration from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The FDA typically conducts a review of proposed product brand names, including an evaluation of potential for confusion with other product names. The FDA may also object to a product brand name if it believes the name inappropriately implies medical claims. If the FDA objects to any of our proposed product brand names, we may be required to adopt an alternative brand name for our product candidates. If we adopt an alternative brand name, we would lose the benefit of our existing trademark applications for such product candidate and may be required to expend significant additional resources in an effort to identify a suitable product brand name that would qualify under applicable trademark laws, not infringe the existing rights of third parties and be acceptable to the FDA. We may be unable to build a successful brand identity for a new trademark in a timely manner or at all, which would limit our ability to commercialize our product candidates. 20 If we are successful in obtaining approval for any drug candidates, we will be subject to various laws and regulations, including "fraud and abuse" laws and anti-bribery laws, and a failure to comply with such laws and regulations or prevail in any litigation related to noncompliance could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Pharmaceutical companies have faced lawsuits and investigations pertaining to violations of health care “fraud and abuse” laws, such as the federal False Claims Act, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or FCPA, and other state and federal laws and regulations. We also face increasingly strict data privacy and security laws in the U.S. and in other countries, the violation of which could result in fines and other sanctions. The United States Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General recommends and, increasingly states, requires pharmaceutical companies to have comprehensive compliance programs and to disclose certain payments made to healthcare providers or funds spent on marketing and promotion of drug products. If we are in violation of any of these requirements or any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines, exclusion from federal healthcare programs or other sanctions. The FCPA and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in criminal or civil penalties or remedial measures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or commercialization. Undesirable side effects caused by any future pharmaceutical product candidates could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications, and in turn prevent us from commercializing such product candidates and generating revenues from their sale. In addition, if any product candidates receive marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product: · regulatory authorities may require the addition of restrictive labeling statements; · regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product; and · we may be required to change the way the product is administered or conduct additional clinical trials. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the product candidate, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from its sale or adversely affect our reputation. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, when and if any of them are approved. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval, along with the manufacturing processes, post approval clinical data, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continual requirements of and review by the FDA and comparable regulatory authorities. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post marketing information and reports, registration requirements, cGMP requirements relating to quality control, quality assurance and corresponding maintenance of records and documents, requirements regarding the distribution of samples to physicians and recordkeeping. Even if we obtain regulatory approval of a product, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for costly post marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. We also may be subject to state laws and registration requirements covering the distribution of our products. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in actions such as: · restrictions on such products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes; · warning letters; · withdrawal of the products from the market; · refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; · voluntary or mandatory recall; 21 · fines; · suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals or refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; · refusal to permit the import or export of our products; · product seizure or detentions; · injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties; and · adverse publicity. If we, or our suppliers, third party contractors, clinical investigators or collaborators are slow to adapt, or are unable to adapt, to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements or policies, we or our collaborators may lose marketing approval for our products when and if any of them are approved, resulting in decreased revenue from milestones, product sales or royalties. Other Business Risks We have responded to subpoenas in a government investigation and are subject to several pending class actions and derivative action cases, and our expenses and cash demands related to these matters have been and could continue to be material. In late January and February 2013 our company, directors and others received subpoenas from the United States Attorney’s Office, or USAO, for the Eastern District of Virginia seeking documents. We believe we have responded to substantially all of the issues being reviewed by the USAO. In addition, the international law firm of Chadbourne & Parke LLP conducted an internal investigation of these matters and that investigation was substantially completed in late June 2013. We incurred substantial legal expenses in connection with the government and internal investigations discussed above in 2013. We expect to continue to incur additional legal expenses in 2014 in connection with the USAO investigation which has resulted in an indictment against former Governor Robert McDonnell and his wife, Maureen McDonnell. We also expect to continue to incur legal expenses (and related cash demands) in connection with the civil actions and other matters discussed under “Part II-Item 1- Legal Proceedings” and such expenses and cash demands relating to those matters may be material. While we expect that much of the cost related to the ongoing securities class action and derivative actions discussed in Part II-Item I will be covered by insurance, we cannot provide any assurances with respect to the outcome of the pending actions, or action yet to arise, including that such claims will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies. We may lose our key personnel or fail to attract and retain additional personnel. Effective December 27, 2013, our former Chief Executive Officer, Jonnie R. Williams and our former President and Chief Operating Officer, Paul L. Perito, resigned from their positions with the Company as part of our corporate transition. Our future operations will depend in large part on the efforts of our new Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Michael J. Mullan, MBBS (MD), PhD and our new President, Christopher C. Chapman, MD In addition, we are highly dependent upon the continued services of our incumbent senior management team for our continued success. The loss of any of the officers could have a serious negative impact on our business and operating results. Our future success also depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain, on a continuing basis, consulting services from highly qualified scientific, technical, management, financial and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development and operation of our business or that given the operating losses we have suffered over the past eleven years we will have the financial ability to do so. The loss of the services of key personnel or the termination of relationships with independent scientific and medical investigators could have a material and adverse effect on our business. We have experienced a significant change in the composition of our Board of Directors and senior management. On December 27, 2013, Dr. Mullan became our new Chief Executive Officer and Dr. Chapman became our new President. In addition, our shareholders recently elected five new directors to our Board of Directors and one of our directors left office in February 2014 due to other business commitments. The failure of our directors or any new members of management to perform effectively could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our Board of Directors and management have begun to institute strategies focusing more effort on drug development that differ from those we had been applying previously. These new strategies may take management a significant amount of time to fully implement. If these new strategies are unsuccessful or if we are unable to execute them successfully, there could be a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed and we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. 22 Our future success will depend in part on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technology related to our products, and on successfully defending our patents and other intellectual property against third-party challenges. In particular, this will include obtaining patent protection for the technology relating to the manufacture and uses of anatabine in our pharmaceutical product candidates, dietary supplements and cosmetic products based on the patents issued to date for the improved synthesis of anatabine, the composition used in our CigRx® product, and utility applications filed to date and our success in commercially marketing the curing technology for which we have exclusive patent rights under our license arrangement with Regent Court. This will depend in large part on our ability to continue to protect the patents related to the synthesis of anatabine and our anatabine yerba mate composition as well as our low-TSNA tobacco curing technology and related products, to obtain further patent protection for our technology in the United States and other jurisdictions and to operate without infringing upon the patents and proprietary rights of others. We do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek through our existing patents, patent applications that are pending or patent applications that we file in the future, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable, if challenged. If we fail to obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property, or if any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, others could use our intellectual property without compensating us, resulting in harm to our business. We may also determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a third party’s products or patents in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent interferences or reexaminations. In the event that we seek to enforce any of our owned or exclusively licensed patents against an infringing party, it is likely that the party defending the claim will seek to invalidate the patents we assert. If successful this could result in the loss of the entire patent or the relevant portion of our patent, which would not be limited to any particular party. Any litigation to enforce or defend our patent rights, even if we were to prevail, could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products without infringing any of our patents or other intellectual property rights, or may design around our proprietary technologies. United States patents and patent applications may also be subject to interference proceedings and United States patents may be subject to reexamination proceedings and other post-grant challenges in the PTO. Foreign patents may be subject to opposition or comparable proceedings in the corresponding foreign patent offices’, and those proceedings could result in either loss of the patent or denial of the patent application, or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of the patent or patent application. In addition, such interference, reexamination and opposition proceedings may be costly. Thus, any patents that we own or license from others may provide limited or no protection against competitors. Our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties, may not result in patents being issued. If issued, they may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. We may also rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how to maintain our competitive position, that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, suppliers and others. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached or terminated, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. Product liability lawsuits against us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to limit commercialization of any products that we may develop. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to significant product liability and other claims in the event that the use of our products cause, or is alleged to have caused, adverse effects. Furthermore, our products may cause, or may appear to have caused, adverse side effects (including death) or potentially dangerous drug interactions that we may not learn about or understand fully until the drug has been administered to patients for some time. The withdrawal of a product following complaints and/or incurring significant costs, including the requirement to pay substantial damages in personal injury cases or product liability cases, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Prior to the introduction of Anatabloc®, our Anatabloc® cosmetics and CigRx® we obtained product liability insurance for these products as dietary supplements and as cosmetics. This insurance covers claims arising from product defects or claims arising out of the sale, distribution and marketing of our Anatabloc ®, Anatabloc ® cosmetics and CigRx ® products. In 2014 a purported class action was filed with respect to the purchase of our Anatabloc® product. In that case, plaintiff seeks a refund on behalf of all persons purchasing our dietary supplement on the basis that the product was not effective for claims allegedly asserted by our company. We have been advised by our insurance carrier that our product liability insurance does not cover the claims asserted in this action. We are not, nor have we ever been, named as a defendant in any legal proceedings involving claims arising out of the sale, distribution, manufacture, development, advertising, marketing and claimed health effects relating to the use of our tobacco products. While we exited the tobacco business as of December 31, 2012, we could have claims asserted against us in connection with our prior manufacture and sale of such products. While we believe the risk of being named a defendant in such a lawsuit is relatively low, we could be named as a defendant in such litigation, as there has been a noteworthy increase in the number of these cases pending. Punitive damages, often in amounts ranging into the hundreds of millions, or even billions of dollars, are asserted in a number of these cases in addition to compensatory and other damages. We currently do not have and do not believe that insurance coverage for health-related claims arising from the use of tobacco products can be obtained. If, in the future, we are named as a defendant in any actions related to our smoked or smokeless tobacco products, we will not have insurance coverage for damages relating to any such claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 23 We have had substantial obligations under state laws adopted under the Master Settlement Agreement. In November 1998, 46 states and the District of Columbia, or the Settling States, entered into the Master Settlement Agreement, or MSA, to resolve litigation that had been instituted against the major tobacco manufacturers. We did not join the MSA and while we manufactured and sold cigarette products we were required to satisfy certain escrow obligations pursuant to statutes that the MSA required the Settling States to adopt in order for such states to receive the full benefits of the settlement. We discontinued the sale of any cigarette products in June 2007 and we sold the rights, title and interest in and to all income from and reversionary interest in our MSA escrow accounts in May 2007. Although we sold the rights in and to all income from and reversionary interest in the funds deposited into the MSA escrow accounts for sales through 2006, these MSA escrow funds remain in our name and the principal amount of these accounts will be available to satisfy portions of any state judgments or settlements for the type of claims asserted against the major tobacco manufacturers in the suits that resulted in the negotiation of the MSA, notwithstanding that we stopped selling cigarettes in 2007 and exited from the tobacco industry completely as of December 31, 2012. Moreover, if such claims are successfully asserted in litigation against us in the future, the claims could exceed the amounts that have been deposited into escrow under the MSA which could adversely affect our operating income and cash flows. If we do not effectively manage our growth, we may be unable to successfully develop, market and sell our products. Our future revenue and operating results will depend on our ability to manage the anticipated growth of our business. If we are successful in increasing market acceptance for our products, we will be required to manage substantial volume from our customers. To accommodate any such growth and compete effectively, we will be required to attract, integrate, motivate and retain additional highly skilled sales, technical and other employees. We face competition for these people. Also, we will have to maintain sufficient capacity for the contract manufacturing of our pharmaceutical, dietary supplement and cosmetic products. There can be no assurance that we can overcome the challenge of scaling up our processing and production operations, that our personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future operations or that we will be able to increase or secure additional capacity through third-party contractors for the manufacturing, sale and distribution of our products. Any failure to implement and improve our operational, financial and management systems, to attract, integrate, motivate and retain additional employees required by future growth, if any, or to secure any needed capacity through third party contractors, if required, could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Common Stock We have many potentially dilutive derivative securities outstanding and the issuance of these securities as well as the future sales of our common stock could have a dilutive effect on current stockholders. At March 10, 2014, we had outstanding options granted to directors, employees and consultants to purchase approximately 22,395,000 shares of our common stock, with a weighted-average exercise price of $2.27 per share, of which options for 17,435,000 shares were exercisable at March 10, 2014. We also had outstanding warrants, exercisable into 10,649,832 shares of our common stock, with a weighted-average exercise price of $1.87 per share. Exercise of outstanding stock options or warrants would cause dilution, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we issue additional shares of our common stock for sale (which has historically been our principal means of financing our operations) in connection with future financings, our stockholders could experience further dilution. See Note 8, “Stockholders’ Equity”, to our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to our outstanding securities that may become exercisable for future shares of our common stock. Also see Note 16, “Subsequent Events” of our Consolidated Financial Statements for information on our most recent financing. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. The trading price of the shares of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. Our stock has traded at prices ranging from $0.57 to $2.96 for the period January 1, 2013 to March 10, 2014. We receive only limited attention from securities analysts and may experience an imbalance between supply and demand for our common stock resulting from our trading volumes. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: · announcements of new products, technological innovations, contracts, acquisitions, financings, corporate partnerships or joint ventures by us or our competitors; · the approval by the FDA and/or other regulatory agencies of any new pharmaceutical products we develop; · developments related to our patents or other proprietary rights; 24 · negative regulatory action or regulatory approval with respect to our products or our competitors’ products; and · market conditions in the dietary supplement and pharmaceutical industries in general. The stock market from time to time, and in particular over the last several years, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for small companies, and which have often been unrelated to their operating performance or prospects for future operations. These broad fluctuations may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price of our common stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future and, as a result, our investors’ sole source of gain, if any, will depend on capital appreciation, if any. We have never paid cash dividends on our capital stock and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. You should not invest in us if you require dividend income. Any income from an investment in us would only come from a rise in the market price of our common stock, which is uncertain and unpredictable. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business and do not foresee payment of a dividend in any upcoming fiscal period. In addition, the terms of existing or any future debt agreements may preclude us from paying dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Provisions in our bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company and may result in an entrenchment of management and diminish the value of our common stock. Our bylaws provide that special meetings of the stockholders may be called at any time by our Chairman of the Board, our President, a majority of our Board of Directors or by the holders of at least a majority of the issued and outstanding shares of our stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change of control that our stockholders may consider favorable. Such provisions could impede the ability of our common stockholders to benefit from a change of control and, as a result, could materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock and your ability to realize any potential change-in-control premium. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We received one comment from the SEC staff regarding our company’s Annual Report filed on form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. We responded to the comment and the matter was resolved without changes to our financial statements and related footnotes. We have not received any comments on our Quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or Current Reports on Form 8-K in the 180 days preceding December 31, 2013. 