ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have incurred losses for the past nine years and operating expenses are likely to continue to be greater than operating revenues in the foreseeable future. We have incurred operating losses for nine consecutive fiscal years beginning with the year ended December 31, 2003. Our net losses were approximately $(22.8) million for the year ended December 31, 2009, $(28.3) million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and $(37.9) for the year ended December 31, 2011. Our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2011 was approximately $(208.6) million. For the past four years we have been focusing our efforts on the development of non-tobacco, non-nicotine dietary supplements and potentially pharmaceuticals through Rock Creek. In 2011 our dietary supplement products constituted 71.8% of our net sales and we expect that sales of dietary supplements will be the largest portion of our sales for the foreseeable future. Since 2007 our efforts in the tobacco area have been on the sale of our low-TSNA dissolvable smokeless tobacco products and the licensing of the related technology, but with the downsizing of our tobacco operations in 2009, revenues from the sale of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products have been consistent but at de minimis levels. It would take a substantial increase in sales of our dietary supplement products and our dissolvable tobacco products for operating revenues to exceed expenses. Our future prospects, therefore, are dependent on the expanded distribution and consumer acceptance of our dietary supplement products and low-TSNA dissolvable tobacco products. They are also dependent on the continued development of related dietary supplements, pharmaceutical products and reduced risk tobacco products independently and through alliances with other tobacco manufacturers or pharmaceutical companies and on our ability to begin generating significant revenues through royalties from the patented tobacco curing process to which we are the exclusive licensee. In the future, we may not be able to secure financing necessary to operate and grow our business as planned. The recurring losses generated by our operations continue to impose significant demands on our liquidity. Over the last several years our liquidity demands have been met principally by private placements of our common stock and from the exercise of related warrants and stock options. In 2011 our company received proceeds of approximately $19.5 million through private placements and stock option and warrant exercises. Subsequent to December 31, 2011 we obtained $12.3 million in a private placement transaction and through 19 Table of Contents warrant and stock option exercises. See note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included in “Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules” for further details of the latter transactions. Absent the exercise of outstanding warrants and options for cash or a substantial improvement in sales and revenues and/or royalties, we believe that the recent funding will support our operations through the first quarter 2013. However, our business and operations may consume resources faster than we anticipate, and depending upon market conditions and the price of our common stock, we may decide to seek additional funds before that time. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund the expansion of our sales and marketing and research and development efforts or take advantage of other opportunities, which could seriously harm our business and operating results. If we issue additional equity securities, existing stockholders will experience dilution. Levels of market volatility have been unprecedented in recent years. The capital and credit markets experienced volatility and disruption at unprecedented levels in 2008 and 2009, which continued to a lesser extent in 2010 and 2011. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If market disruption and volatility worsen in the future, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed and we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. Our future success will depend in part on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technology related to our products, and on successfully defending our patents and other intellectual property against third-party challenges. In particular, this will include obtaining patent protection for the technology relating to the manufacture and uses of anatabine in our dietary supplement products based on the utility applications filed to date as well as provisional applications that we expect to mature into patent applications in the future, and our success in commercially marketing the tobacco curing technology and our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products for which we have exclusive patent rights under our license arrangement with Regent Court. This will depend in large part on our ability to continue to protect the patents related to our low-TSNA tobacco curing technology, to obtain further patent protection for our technology in the United States and other jurisdictions, and to operate without infringing upon the patents and proprietary rights of others. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our proprietary rights. In particular, we have been prosecuting patent infringement claims against RJR. In that litigation the patent claims at issue in that case have been confirmed through a ruling issued by the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals in August 2011 and by a March 2011 order from the United States Patent and Trademark office in a reexamination proceeding initiated by RJR. We do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek through our existing patents or patent applications that are pending, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable, if challenged. If we fail to obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property, or if any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, others could use our intellectual property without compensating us, resulting in harm to our business. We may also determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a third party’s products or patents in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent interferences or reexaminations. In the event that we seek to enforce any of our owned or exclusively licensed patents against an infringing party, it is likely that the party defending the claim will seek to invalidate the patents we assert. If successful this could result in the loss of the entire patent or the relevant portion of our patent, which would not be limited to any particular party. Any litigation to enforce or defend our patent rights, even if we were to prevail, could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products without infringing any of our patent or other intellectual property rights, or may design around our proprietary technologies. 20 Table of Contents U.S. patents and patent applications may also be subject to interference proceedings and U.S. patents may be subject to reexamination proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Foreign patents may be subject to opposition or comparable proceedings in the corresponding foreign patent offices, and those proceedings could result in either loss of the patent or denial of the patent application, or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of the patent or patent application. In addition, such interference, reexamination and opposition proceedings may be costly. Thus, any patents that we own or license from others may provide limited or no protection against competitors. Our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties, may not result in patents being issued. If issued, they may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. We may also rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how to maintain our competitive position, that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, suppliers and others. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached or terminated, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. Our growth strategy anticipates that we will create new products and distribution channels and expand existing distribution channels for our dietary supplement products, for other products developed by Rock Creek and for our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, Our future growth is also heavily dependent upon increased consumer acceptance of our, existing dietary supplements, Anatabloc® and CigRx®, other dietary supplements and pharmaceutical products, our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, Ariva® and Stonewall®, as well as on increased demand to license our related technology. If we are unable to effectively manage these initiatives, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. Our long-term growth strategy includes an increased focus on the sale and marketing of our dietary supplements, the introduction of other non-nicotine dietary supplements and tobacco-based pharmaceuticals, the sale of our low-TSNA dissolvable tobacco products and the receipt of royalty fees for the licensing of our patented technology for producing low-TSNA tobacco. However, to date sales of our dissolvable tobacco products, as well as our ability to derive revenue from the licensing of our low-TSNA technology, have been de minimis. Additionally, our success will be dependent on our ability to develop other dietary supplements that may be helpful to consumers in maintaining a healthy metabolism, as well as tobacco-based pharmaceutical products. The introduction of pharmaceutical products will require a substantial period of time in order to obtain FDA approval to market such products. As a result, we do not anticipate introducing any pharmaceutical products into the market for the foreseeable future but will focus on the research and development aspects of a range of pharmaceuticals, in addition to the development of other non-nicotine dietary supplement products. Assuming that we are successful in introducing such products into the market, the success of those products like the success of our dietary supplements and low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products will depend on the willingness and ability of retail customers to market and sell our products to consumers, as well as our success in developing new distribution channels for those products. If we are not able to continue to market our dietary supplement through our e-commerce initiatives or if the retail customers or independent distributors of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products were to reduce the quantity of the products they currently sell or stop selling our products, or if we are unable to open distribution channels for our new products, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. It is not certain whether our dietary supplements or our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products will be accepted by the market in sufficient volume to support our operations. Consumers may decide not to purchase our products due to taste or other preferences, including a preference for our competitor’s products or because of the extensive health warnings contained on the packaging for our tobacco products. There can be no assurance 21 Table of Contents that in the future our competitors will not succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective than the products we develop, that are less toxic than our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, or that would render our products obsolete or non-competitive. Further, an inability to successfully increase consumer awareness of and demand for our very low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products would negatively affect our ability to license our patented technology for producing low-TSNA tobacco. This accordingly would materially diminish our ability to derive royalty fees from the license of this technology. If we are unable to license our patented technology for producing low-TSNA tobacco, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our efforts to successfully market Anatabloc® and CigRx®, as well as ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® also will require the expenditure of substantial funds that we will need to obtain from external financing, the availability of which cannot be assured, and ultimately these products may not be accepted in the national marketplace. If we are not successful in our efforts to offer Anatabloc® and CigRx® as dietary supplements and our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products as alternatives to cigarettes and other smokeless products, to generate revenue through the license of the related technology to which we are the exclusive licensee or to introduce new dietary supplement and pharmaceutical products, we will not have sufficient sales volumes to support our operations. We may not be successful in introducing and marketing our Anatabloc® and CigRx® products. We introduced Anatabloc® as a nutraceutical, dietary supplement for anti-inflammatory support in August 2011. As such, Anatabloc® competes with other dietary supplements that are marketed for anti-inflammatory support and for use in maintaining a healthy metabolism. Also, while Anatabloc® is intended to support the body’s natural anti-inflammatory properties, there are a number of dietary supplements and prescription and non-prescription products that are marketed for pain relief that, in many cases, may be due to excessive inflammation. While Anatabloc® is not a pain relief medication, it is possible that by providing anti-inflammatory support, Anatabloc may be viewed as fungible with these products to the extent that the use of Anatabloc supports the body’s natural regulation of inflammation. In August 2010, we introduced, CigRx® as a tobacco alternative designed to temporarily reduce the desire to smoke. CigRx® is a dietary supplement product that allows individuals to use a non-tobacco, non-nicotine product in situations where they are not in a position to use tobacco or wish to have an alternative to a tobacco product. CigRx® competes with smokeless tobacco products in the “When You Can’t Smoke”® market. Also, to the extent that the FDA approves cessation products for nicotine maintenance, such products would compete with CigRx® in the future. Although FDA approved smoking cessation products are not labeled or approved for tobacco maintenance, it appears that those products may be used for that purpose and thus compete with CigRx® at the present time. Currently our CigRx® product does not have an established market as a tobacco alternative We have chosen to market Anatabloc® and CigRx® primarily through interactive websites and customer service centers and to a lesser extent through retail locations for both products and through an infomercial in the case of CigRx®. Our success in marketing Anatabloc® and CigRx® will be dependent on consumer acceptance of these product and our ability to have the products sold to consumers through our websites and infomercials and to increase other avenues of distribution through retail outlets and other means. If we are not able to attract interest in these products at the consumer level, expand on the distribution channels or compete with other companies marketing alternatives to our dietary supplement products our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may face disruptions relating to the manufacture and sale of CigRx® and Anatabloc® based on the fact that we have arranged for third parties to manufacture and distribute Anatabloc® and CigRx®. In order to facilitate the launch of Anatabloc® and CigRx® and limit capital expenditures, we have outsourced the manufacturing, storage, order processing and delivery of both through contracts and arrangements 22 Table of Contents with a number of third-party suppliers. We anticipate that the arrangements that have been put in place with these various entities should be sufficient to meet our manufacturing and distribution needs for Anatabloc® and CigRx® for the foreseeable future. However, these contractors may experience delays or disruptions that could adversely impact on their ability to meet our manufacturing and distribution needs. In the event that our third-party contractors are unable to meet our needs, we would need to find alternative sources for the manufacturing and/or distribution of Anatabloc® and CigRx®, which may be difficult to obtain in a timely and cost effective manner, or at all. Also, if sales volumes for Anatabloc® and CigRx® increase substantially over a short period of time, our current contractors may have difficulty meeting our manufacturing and supply demands. In the event we are not able to obtain adequate amounts of Anatabloc® and CigRx® or if we are not able to supply product to consumers on a timely basis, our customers may seek to fulfill their supply needs by purchasing competing products, which, in turn, would reduce our market share and ability to successfully commercialize Anatabloc® and CigRx®, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Sales of tobacco products have been declining, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and cash flows. The overall U.S. market for cigarettes has generally been declining in terms of volume of sales, as a result of restrictions on advertising and promotions; funding of smoking prevention campaigns; increases in regulation and excise taxes; a decline in the social acceptability of smoking, and other factors, and sales are expected to continue to decline. While the sales of smokeless tobacco products have been increasing over the last several years, the smokeless tobacco market is substantially smaller than the cigarette market. Moreover, beginning in late 2009, we substantially scaled down our tobacco operations and have been focusing our sales efforts for our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products on a more narrow (Richmond, VA) geographic area and to selected regional and national retail chains. While sales of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products have been stable over the past year, the downward trend in the industry and our limited sales efforts may adversely impact our ability to sell and market our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. Also, a decline in the consumption of tobacco products could adversely impact on our sales of CigRx® as a tobacco alternative, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We may face delays in obtaining very low-TSNA tobacco or other raw materials to adequately manufacture our products. In the period 2007 to 2009 we sold approximately 1,025 StarCured® tobacco curing barns that had been used to produce StarCured® tobacco, which constituted all of our StarCured® tobacco curing barns. While we currently do not own any StarCured® barns, we have a significant amount of StarCured® tobacco in inventory and access to StarCured® tobacco through growers who previously participated in our StarCured® tobacco curing program. However, given the sale of our remaining barns, we cannot be assured that we will have sufficient availability to curing barns to meet future demand for our low-TSNA tobacco, particularly if the sales volumes of our very low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products substantially increase over a short period of time. Further, in the event that we are unable to obtain adequate amounts of StarCured® tobacco and other raw materials to meet product demands, our customers may seek to fulfill their supply needs by purchasing competing brands, which in turn, would reduce our market share and ability to successfully commercialize our very low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We are subject to increased regulation relating to our tobacco products as a result of the FDA assuming jurisdiction over all tobacco products under the FDA Tobacco Act. The FDA Tobacco Act, which went into effect on June 22, 2009, provides a new division within the FDA (The Center for Tobacco Products) with broad authority over the manufacturing, sale and distribution of tobacco products including expanded control over the introduction of new tobacco products, warnings that must be 23 Table of Contents included on all tobacco products and the manner in which tobacco products may be marketed and sold. Many of the changes specified in the FDA Act will be implemented gradually over a period of several years. We have sought to comply with these requirements by registering with the FDA as a tobacco manufacturer and taking other steps to comply with the FDA Tobacco Act requirements with respect to the manufacture, sale and marketing of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. If we are not successful in meeting the requirements of the FDA Tobacco Act with respect to our current low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, or obtaining approval to market any new tobacco products, our effort to expand the distribution and sales of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products or other tobacco products could be adversely affected which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The tobacco industry as well as the market for non-nicotine tobacco alternatives are highly competitive, we may not be able to effectively compete in these markets and our competitors may develop technology for the production of low-TSNA tobacco that does not infringe on the technology to which we are the exclusive licensee, or they may develop technology for low-TSNA tobacco or other cigarette alternatives that could make our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products or our CigRx® tobacco alternative obsolete. Virtually all flue-cured tobacco grown in the United States since 2001 has been cured in a manner to reduce the levels of TSNAs. If our competitors produce low-TSNA tobacco that does not infringe on the technology to which we are the exclusive licensee, or develop other tobacco products with less toxins that can compete with our very low-TSNA products, this could adversely affect our operating income and cash flows. The tobacco industry is highly competitive. STONEWALL Hard Snuff® competes with major manufacturers of smokeless tobacco products and ARIVA® competes with traditional cigarette manufacturers as an alternative to cigarettes in situations where adult cigarette users cannot or choose not to smoke. Those companies generally have substantially greater financial and operating resources than we do. In 2009 Altria, Philip Morris’s parent company, expanded its role in the smokeless tobacco market through its acquisition of UST. Also, in 2009 RJR introduced into test market three dissolvable tobacco products that compete directly with our ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® low-TSNA dissolvable smokeless tobacco products. If these initiatives are successful or if our competitors develop new technology for low-TSNA tobacco for use in smokeless tobacco products, we will be subject to increased competition for market share and our current technology for the production of low-TSNA tobacco could become obsolete. CigRx® may compete with both FDA approved smoking cessation products and dietary supplement tobacco alternatives. Smoking cessation products that are approved by the FDA for sale in the United States are designed to wean the smoker from nicotine addiction over a period of time and are marketed by the leading pharmaceutical companies as alternatives to cigarettes. Also there are other tobacco alternatives, such as e-cigarettes, and non-nicotine dietary supplements that are marketed as assisting to maintain a nicotine free metabolism or to balance metabolism in the absence of nicotine. Many companies marketing smoking cessation products or related dietary supplement alternatives have substantially greater financial and operating resources than we do. To the extent competitors in these markets are able to develop products that are accepted as tobacco alternatives, the sale of CigRx® could be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our research and development efforts may not result in commercially viable products and may continue to be curtailed by our lack of available research funds. Our company’s long-term focus is the research, development, manufacturing and licensing of technology that can promote maintenance of a healthy metabolism, reduce the harm associated with the use of tobacco and, more generally, assist consumers in maintaining a healthy lifestyle We have pursued these objectives through the production of our nutraceutical, dietary supplements Anatabloc® and CigRx®, our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, our ongoing research and development efforts directed to botanical based products for the treatment of tobacco dependence as well as the development of products that would utilize certain MAO agents in tobacco to 24 Table of Contents treat a range of neurological conditions, including Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, schizophrenia and depression. Our current and future product development initiatives will be substantially dependent on our ability to continue our research initiatives and to obtain the funding necessary to support these initiatives. Our inability to continue these initiatives and initiate new research and development efforts could result in a failure to develop new products or to improve upon existing products, which could have a material and adverse impact on our sales, operating income and cash flows. We are subject to risks inherent in new product development initiatives, particularly with respect to our goal of developing pharmaceutical products to treat tobacco-related dependence and other neurological conditions, which are subject to FDA regulation and approval, and for related products such as dietary supplements. Our future success is substantially dependent upon implementation of our business strategy related to our new product initiatives. Since 2007, through our Rock Creek subsidiary, we have been exploring the development of dietary supplements designed to assist in maintaining a healthy lifestyle, botanical-based products for the treatment of tobacco dependence, as well as products that would utilize certain MAO agents in tobacco to treat a range of neurological conditions, including Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, schizophrenia and depression. The ongoing product development initiatives of Rock Creek are subject to high levels of risk, uncertainties and contingencies, including the challenges inherent in new product development, FDA regulatory approval for any new pharmaceutical products that we develop and FDA regulatory oversight for dietary supplements. Also, since the passage of the FDA Tobacco Act, all tobacco products are now regulated by the FDA under the FDA Tobacco Act. They also are, subject to multiple, overlapping federal and state regulations and products derived from tobacco could be classified as tobacco products or drug products depending on their chemical composition, intended use and claims. Additionally, DSHEA, provides the FDA with authority over the production and marketing of dietary supplements. In certain cases DSHEA also requires notification to the FDA before a company begins to market a dietary supplement and, if structure or function claims are made for a product in the product labeling, notification of such claims within thirty days of the introduction of the product into commerce. DSHEA also implements significant manufacturing and marketing requirements, including that dietary supplements be manufactured under “good manufacturing practices” and that the label, labeling and advertising for such products meet specific requirements, DSHEA does not require prior approval by the FDA for the introduction of dietary supplements into the market, but does require that the dietary supplement products being developed by Rock Creek comply with the requirements of DSHEA prior to and after their introduction into commerce. If products are manufactured and sold as dietary supplements it is possible that FDA may challenge the status of a product classification. FDA may also challenge the types of claims made for a dietary supplement or its indications for use and the FTC also has jurisdiction over advertising of dietary supplements and other OTC products. In marketing our Anatabloc® and CigRx® dietary supplements, we will have to comply with the requirements of DSHEA, which could impact the time required to fully commercialize those products. We do not have any pharmaceutical products cleared or approved for commercialization and we do not expect to obtain approval for any drug products for the foreseeable future. The future success of our pharmaceutical, and to a more limited extent, our dietary supplement, business will depend on our ability to obtain regulatory clearance or approval to market new drug products and our ability to comply with statutory and regulatory requirements for any dietary supplement products, create product sales, successfully introduce new products, establish our sales force and distribution network, and obtain access to additional working capital to finance our development initiatives, all of which we may be unable to realize. Additionally, if any dietary supplement developed by us is determined to be a pharmaceutical product, as opposed to a dietary supplement, the product would need to be submitted to the FDA for approval as a new drug prior to it being sold in the United States. Even if we develop a viable pharmaceutical product, we may not obtain or maintain the necessary FDA approvals for our product, or such approvals may be delayed, which would mean that we would be unable to commercially distribute and market our product. The process of seeking regulatory clearance or approval to 25 Table of Contents market a pharmaceutical product is expensive and time consuming and, notwithstanding the effort and expense incurred, clearance or approval is never guaranteed. Also, the FDA has substantial discretion in the drug approval process. We cannot market a drug product in the United States unless it has been approved by the FDA. The FDA approval process involves, among other things, successfully completing clinical trials under an IND and obtaining a premarket approval after filing an NDA. Clinical trials are expensive and uncertain. The NDA process would require us to prove the safety and efficacy of our product to the FDA’s satisfaction. If our clinical trials fail to produce sufficient data to support an NDA, it will take us longer to ultimately commercialize a product and generate revenue, or the delay could result in our being unable to do so. Moreover, our development costs will increase if, to achieve sufficient data to support an NDA, we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. Even if we are successful in developing a pharmaceutical product, if we are not successful in obtaining timely clearance or approval of the product from the FDA, we may never be able to generate sufficient revenue to support the successful commercialization of the product. Also, any FDA approved product will be subject to continuing review and the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising and promotion of any such product will be subject to extensive regulation. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our retail customers or independent distributors selling our dietary supplements and our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products and a loss or material reduction in their business with us could result in reduced sales of our products. We have marketed our dietary supplements primarily through our interactive websites and customer service centers, However, we have utilized to a limited extent marketing at retail and through independent distributors and we expect that retail marketing to consumers will become an increasingly larger part of our marketing activities for our dietary supplements in the future. Also, our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products are only sold through retail customers who either buy directly from us or from distributors to whom we supply product. Our success in marketing our dietary supplements and our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products will be dependent upon the willingness and ability of retail customers to market and sell our products to consumers, as well as our success in developing new distribution channels for our dietary supplements and low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. If any of our significant retail customers or independent distributors were to reduce the quantity of the products we sell, or to stop selling our products, or if we are unable to open new distribution channels for our products, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our retail customers and independent distributors generally purchase products from us on a purchase-order basis and do not have long-term contracts with us. Consequently, with little or no notice and without penalty, our retail customers and independent distributors may terminate their relationships with us or materially reduce the level of their purchases of our products. If this were to occur with one or more retail customers or independent distributors, who purchase significant quantities of our products, it may be difficult for us to establish substitute relationships in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent primarily on domestic sales of our Anatabloc® and CigRx® dietary supplements and for sales of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. All of our revenues are currently derived from sales of our dietary supplements, Anatabloc® and CigRx® and our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. The overall market for tobacco products in the U.S. has been declining on a year-to-year basis for the last several years, even as the market for smokeless tobacco products has been growing. CigRx® and our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products are being marketed only in the U.S. and currently we do not have access to any foreign markets for those products, which access could help offset the impact of declining sales of tobacco products in the U.S. While Anatabloc® is available for shipment to numerous foreign countries outside the United States, sales outside the United States have been limited and we do not have any direct distribution arrangements for Anatabloc® outside of the U.S. 26 Table of Contents If we experience product recalls, we may incur significant and unexpected costs and our business reputation could be adversely affected. We may be exposed to product recalls and adverse public relations if our dietary supplement products or our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products are alleged to cause illness or injury, or if we are alleged to have violated governmental regulations. A product recall could result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, which could reduce operating profits and cash flow. In addition, a product recall may require significant management time and attention and may adversely impact on the value of our brands. Product recalls may lead to greater scrutiny by federal or state regulatory agencies and increased litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The tobacco industry is subject to substantial and increasing regulation and taxes with respect to the sale and marketing of its products. The FDA Tobacco Act provides The Center for Tobacco Products, a new division within the FDA, with broad authority over the manufacturing, sale and distribution of tobacco products including expanded control over the introduction of new tobacco products, warnings that must be included on all tobacco products and the manner in which tobacco products may be marketed and sold. The FDA Tobacco Act also provides for the establishment of a Scientific Advisory Committee that, among other initiatives, has been designated to undertake an analysis of dissolvable tobacco products and to provide a report on such products in March 2012. As currently implemented, we do not believe the FDA Tobacco Act presents a material risk to our business activities, but there is no assurance that the current legislation as implemented by the FDA will not limit or delay our future initiatives or that difficulties and/or delays in obtaining approvals from the FDA will not have an adverse impact on our ability to market our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. We have a license from the TTB to manufacture smokeless tobacco products. To the extent that we are unable to maintain our current TTB license or to obtain any additional licenses required by the TTB, this could materially and adversely affect our operations. Also, we are subject to assessments based on our sales volume to cover a portion of the fund established in 2004 to compensate growers and quota holders at the time that the U.S. Congress eliminated the federal tobacco quota system and price support system. While the impact of this legislation is less significant in relation to the sale of smokeless tobacco products than for cigarettes, if sales of our smokeless tobacco products increase substantially, we would have increased obligations during the ten-year period in which the buyout program is in effect. The federal excise tax on smokeless tobacco products is substantially lower than the excise tax for cigarettes, but smokeless tobacco products are subject to substantial and increasing excise taxes. The current federal excise tax for snuff is $1.51 per pound. It is possible that increased use of smokeless tobacco products could result in more stringent regulation and higher taxes. Recently a number of states have considered increases in state excise taxes on smoked and smokeless tobacco products. New or increased excise taxes or restrictions on the use of tobacco products may result in declines in sales volume for the industry generally, and our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products in particular, which could adversely affect our operating income and cash flows. We have had substantial obligations under state laws adopted under the Master Settlement Agreement. In November 1998, 46 states and the District of Columbia, or the Settling States, entered into the Master Settlement Agreement, or MSA, to resolve litigation that had been instituted against the major tobacco manufacturers. We did not join the MSA and while we manufactured and sold cigarette products we were required to satisfy certain escrow obligations pursuant to statutes that the MSA required the Settling States to adopt in order for such states to receive the full benefits of the settlement. We discontinued the sale of any cigarette products in June 2007 and we sold the rights, title and interest in and to all income from and reversionary interest in our MSA escrow accounts in May 2007. Although we sold the rights in and to all income from and reversionary interest in the funds deposited into the MSA escrow accounts for sales through 2006, these 27 Table of Contents MSA escrow funds remain in our name and the principal amount of these accounts will be available to satisfy portions of any state judgments or settlements for the type of claims asserted against the major tobacco manufacturers in the suits that resulted in the negotiation of the MSA. However, if such claims are successfully asserted in litigation against us in the future, the claims could exceed the amounts that have been deposited into escrow under the MSA which could adversely affect our operating income and cash flows. We have many potentially dilutive derivative securities outstanding and the issuance of these securities as well as the future sales of our common stock would have a dilutive effect on current stockholders. At March 5, 2012, we had outstanding options granted to directors, employees and consultants to purchase approximately 17,064,000 shares of our common stock, with a weighted-average exercise price of $2.68 per share, of which options for 13,679,000 shares were exercisable at March 5, 2012. We also have outstanding warrants, which are currently exercisable into 36,229,167 shares of our common stock, with a weighted-average exercise price of $2.25 per share. Exercise of outstanding stock options or warrants would cause dilution, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we issue additional shares of our common stock for sale in connection with future financings, our stockholders would experience further dilution. The combination transaction between RJR and B&W may negatively impact us. Under our prior agreements with B&W, B&W loaned us $29 million to fund our purchase of StarCured® tobacco curing barns. The balance on this loan was approximately $5.0 million as of December 31, 2011. Previously, B&W granted us a number of concessions under our loan agreement, including deferring interest and principal payments and consenting to our incurrence of additional indebtedness. In 2004 B&W and RJR completed a combination of their United States tobacco business through a new entity Reynolds American, Inc. We are currently involved in significant patent infringement litigation with RJR, which, in effect, is the successor of the RJR and B&W combination. Although our current loan is unsecured, RJR’s failure to grant us concessions under our loan could have a number of adverse consequences, including restricting our pursuit of business opportunities with third parties, limiting our ability to raise funds through debt financing and requiring payment of our obligations in circumstances where we may not have sufficient funds available to do so. Since the combination of B&W and RJR, we have had no operational relationship with RJR and given our ongoing patent litigation against RJR, we do not anticipate that we would have the same type of cooperative relationship with RJR as we had with B&W, or that RJR would be inclined to grant concessions similar to those that we received from B&W. We may be assessed additional sales and use taxes by the Commonwealth of Virginia. In 2002, the Virginia Department of Taxation asserted a Virginia Sales and Use Tax assessment for the period January 1, 1999, through March 31, 2002, against us with respect to our tobacco-curing barns in the amount of $860,115. We applied for a correction of the assessment and a total abatement of the tax on the grounds that our barns are exempt from sales and use taxes under the industrial use and processing exemption and/or the agricultural exemption. In a letter dated October 7, 2004, our company received notification from the Commonwealth of Virginia that an adverse decision had been made by the Commissioner of Taxation with respect to the sales and use tax assessment previously issued to our company. On August 10, 2010 the Commonwealth of Virginia responded to our request for reconsideration of the state’s sales and use tax assessment with respect to our tobacco curing barns. The Commonwealth disagreed with our position that the barns are part of the manufacturing process and, therefore, exempt from sales and use taxes under the industrial use and processing exemption and/or the agricultural exemption, concluding that the barns are taxable under the Commonwealth’s sales tax laws and regulation. We disagree with the ruling by the Commissioner and in July 2011 filed a lawsuit in the Circuit Court for Mecklenburg County, VA seeking a correction of this assessment. The Commonwealth has filed an answer in that action asserting that the assessment was correct. The matter is currently pending. The sales and use tax assessment plus penalties and interest together, as of December 31, 2011, totaled approximately $1.5 million. Interest will continue to accrue during our continued pursuit of a resolution of this matter. 28 Table of Contents Lawsuits may affect our profitability and we have limited insurance coverage for any damages for which we may become liable. Prior to the introduction of Anatabloc® and CigRx® we obtained product liability insurance for these products as dietary supplements. This insurance covers claims arising from product defects or claims arising out of the sale, distribution and marketing of our Anatabloc® and CigRx® products. There have been no claims asserted with respect to the manufacture, sale or use of Anatabloc® or CigRx® to date. If any such claims are asserted in the future and ultimately result in liability that exceeds the limits of our insurance coverage, this could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition. We are not, nor have we ever been, named as a defendant in any legal proceedings involving claims arising out of the sale, distribution, manufacture, development, advertising, marketing and claimed health effects relating to the use of our tobacco products. While we believe that the risk of being named a defendant in such a lawsuit is relatively low, we may be named as a defendant in the future as there has been a noteworthy increase in the number of these cases pending. Punitive damages, often in amounts ranging into the hundreds of millions, or even billions of dollars, are asserted in a number of these cases in addition to compensatory and other damages. We currently do not have and do not believe that insurance coverage for health-related claims arising from the use of tobacco products can be obtained. If, in the future, we are named as a defendant in any actions related to our smokeless tobacco products, we will not have insurance coverage for damages relating to any such claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. If we do not effectively manage our growth, we may be unable to successfully develop, market and sell our products. Our future revenue and operating results will depend on our ability to manage the anticipated growth of our business. If we are successful in increasing market acceptance for our products, we will be required to manage substantial volume from our customers. To accommodate any such growth and compete effectively, we will be required to attract, integrate, motivate and retain additional highly skilled sales, technical and other employees. We face competition for these people. Also, we will have to maintain sufficient capacity for the contract manufacturing of our dietary supplement products. There can be no assurance that we can overcome the challenge of scaling up our processing and production operations, that our personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future operations or that we will be able to increase or secure additional capacity through third-party contractors for the manufacturing, sale and distribution of our Anatabloc® and CigRx® dietary supplements. Any failure to implement and improve our operational, financial and management systems, to attract, integrate, motivate and retain additional employees required by future growth, if any, or to secure any needed capacity through third party contractors, if required, could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may lose our key personnel or fail to attract and retain additional personnel. We are highly dependent upon the continued services of our senior management team for our continued success. The loss of any one of Jonnie R. Williams, our Chief Executive Officer, Paul L. Perito, our Chairman, President and Chief Operating Officer, David M. Dean, our Vice President of Sales and Marketing, Park A. Dodd III, our Chief Financial Officer, Robert E. Pokusa, our General Counsel or Curtis Wright, M.D., MPH, Senior Vice-President Medical/Clinical Director of Rock Creek could have a serious negative impact on our business and operating results. Our future success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain, on a continuing basis, consulting services from highly qualified scientific, technical, management, financial and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development and operation of our business or that given the operating losses we have suffered over the past nine years we will have the financial ability to do so. The loss of the services of key personnel or the termination of relationships with independent scientific and medical investigators could have a material and adverse effect on our business. 29 Table of Contents Our directors and executive officers own a large percentage of our voting stock, which allows them to exercise significant control over us, and they may make decisions with which you disagree. Based on stock ownership as of March 5, 2012, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates, own an aggregate of approximately 9.5% of our currently issued and outstanding common stock. As a result, these persons acting together may have the ability to influence matters submitted to our stockholders for approval and to control the management and affairs of our company. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, impede a merger, consolidation, or takeover or other business combination, or discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control. This concentration of control could also have a negative effect on the market price of our shares. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. The trading price of the shares of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. Our stock has traded at prices ranging from $1.50 to $5.35 for the period January 1, 2011 to March 5, 2012. We receive only limited attention from securities analysts and may experience an imbalance between supply and demand for our common stock resulting from low trading volumes. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control, including the following: • our success in marketing our Anatabloc® and CigRx® dietary supplements, related dietary supplements designed to assist in maintaining a healthy metabolism and pharmaceutical products • developments related to our patents or other proprietary rights; • developments in our efforts to market our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products; • announcements of new products, technological innovations, contracts, acquisitions, financings, corporate partnerships or joint ventures by us or our competitors; • negative regulatory action or regulatory approval with respect to our products or our competitors’ products; and • market conditions in the dietary supplement, pharmaceutical and tobacco industries in general. The stock market has, from time to time, and in particular over the last 24 months, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for small companies, and which have often been unrelated to their operating performance or prospects for future operations. These broad fluctuations may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any written comments from the SEC staff regarding our company’s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or Current Reports on Form 8-K in the 180 days preceding December 31, 2011. 