ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have incurred losses for the past seven years and we expect operating expenses to continue to be greater than operating revenues in the foreseeable future. We have incurred operating losses for seven consecutive fiscal years beginning with the year ended December 31, 2003. Our net losses were approximately $(41.5) million for the year ended December 31, 2007, $(18.3) million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and $(22.8) million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2009 was approximately $(142.4) million. Additionally, a majority of our historical operating revenues have been derived from sales of our discount cigarettes. However, in May 2007, we entered into a license agreement with Tantus for the exclusive license of our trademarks MainStreet®, Sport® and GSmoke®, in return for licensing fees during the seven-year term of the license agreement and beyond, if the license is renewed. Although we retain the right to manufacture and sell other branded cigarettes, we discontinued the manufacture and sale of our discount cigarettes in June 2007 and are focusing our efforts on the sale of low-TSNA dissolvable smokeless tobacco products and the licensing of the related technology, as opposed to cigarettes. Accordingly, we have accounted for our cigarette operations as “discontinued operations” in our consolidated financial statements beginning with the second quarter of 2007. Our future profitability will depend on our ability to generate and sustain increased revenue levels in future periods. This will largely be dependent on the distribution and consumer acceptance of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products as well as the continued development of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, independently and through alliances with other tobacco manufacturers, and our ability to begin generating significant revenues through royalties from the our patented tobacco curing process or from the development of pharmaceutical and nutraceutical products by Rock Creek, which has had no revenue to date. These efforts may be more costly than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset our higher operating expenses associated with these initiatives especially given the loss of revenues from the discontinuation of our discount cigarette business. Additionally, our ability to generate revenues through royalty payments from the licensing of our low-TSNA technology will also be dependent upon the successful completion of our ongoing patent infringement lawsuit against RJR which we continue to pursue on appeal following an unsuccessful verdict in our jury trial in that case that took place between May 18 and June 16, 2009 in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland (see “Item 3 Legal Proceedings” for further details). In the future, we may not be able to secure financing necessary to operate and grow our business as planned. The recurring losses generated by our operations continue to impose significant demands on our liquidity. Over the last several years our liquidity demands have been met principally by private placements of our common stock and the cash exercise of related warrants and stock options. Since January 1, 2010 through March 15, 2010, our company received proceeds of approximately $13.8 million. Absent the exercise of outstanding warrants and options for cash or a substantial improvement in sales and revenues and/or royalties, we believe that the recent funding will support our operations through the first quarter 2011. However, our business and operations may consume resources faster than we anticipate, and depending upon market conditions and the price of our common stock, we may decide to seek additional funds before that time. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund the expansion of our sales and marketing and research and development efforts or take advantage of other opportunities, which could seriously harm our business and operating results. If we issue additional equity securities, existing stockholders will experience dilution. 20 Table of Contents Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months reaching unprecedented levels in 2008 and for a significant portion of 2009. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed and we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. Our future success will depend in part on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technologies contained in our products, and on successfully defending our patents and other intellectual property against third-party challenges. In particular, our success in commercially exploiting our licensed tobacco curing technology and low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, and our development of tobacco-based pharmaceutical products to treat tobacco-related dependence and related products, depends in large part on our ability to protect the patents related to our low-TSNA technology for which we are the exclusive licensee, to obtain further patent protection for this technology in the United States and other jurisdictions, and to operate without infringing upon the patents and proprietary rights of others. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our proprietary rights. In particular, we have been prosecuting patent infringement claims against RJR in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland with respect to two patents used in our low-TSNA tobacco technology. Following remand from the Court of Appeals, the case was tried to a jury in the District Court between May 18, 2009 and June 16, 2009. At the conclusion of the trial, the jury returned a verdict in favor of RJR holding that there was no infringement of the two patents at issue in the case and that the patents were invalid due to anticipation, obviousness, indefiniteness and failure to disclose best mode. On July 7, 2009, we filed a motion with the District Court for Judgment as a Matter of Law or, in the Alternative, for a New Trial and that motion was denied on December 21, 2009 and judgment entered by the District Court. The next day we filed a Notice of Appeal of the judgment and related rulings to the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals and the appeal is currently pending. On May 29, 2009, we filed a new complaint against RJR for patent infringement during the period beginning 2003 through the filing date of the complaint. The future prosecution of the new complaint will be dependant on our achieving a reversal of the jury verdict of invalidity in our initial RJR action, which is uncertain at this time. On December 31, 2008 and January 2, 2009, RJR filed requests in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to reexamine the two patents that are the subject of the patent infringement litigations described above. In February and March 2009, the Patent and Trademark Office granted the reexamination requests, agreeing to review the patentability of the subject matter claims 4, 12 and 20 of the ‘649 patent and claim 41 of the ‘401 patent . On September 17, 2009 the Patent and Trademark Office issued a first office action in both cases. On October 22, 2009 we participated in an interview with the panel considering this matter and filed a written response to the first office action on November 10, 2009. The reexamination process is ongoing. If we are unable to obtain a reversal of the jury verdict in our RJR patent infringement case or prevail in the patent reexamination, the claims at issue in the litigation and the reexamination will not be enforceable by us and we will not be in a position to prevent third parties from utilizing the technology covered by these claims or to license that technology. We do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek through our existing patents, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable, if challenged. If we fail to obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property, or if any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, others could use our intellectual property without compensating us, resulting in harm to our business. We may also determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a third party’s products or patents in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent interferences or reexaminations. In the event that we seek to enforce any of our owned or exclusively licensed patents against an infringing party, it is likely that the party defending the claim will seek to invalidate the patents we assert. If successful this could result in the loss of the entire patent or the relevant portion of our patent, which would not be limited to any particular party. Any litigation to enforce or defend our patent rights, even if we were to prevail, could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products without infringing any of our patent or other intellectual property rights, or may design around our proprietary technologies. 21 Table of Contents U.S. patents and patent applications may also be subject to interference proceedings and U.S. patents may be subject to reexamination proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Foreign patents may be subject to opposition or comparable proceedings in the corresponding foreign patent offices, and those proceedings could result in either loss of the patent or denial of the patent application, or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of the patent or patent application. In addition, such interference, reexamination and opposition proceedings may be costly. Thus, any patents that we own or license from others may provide limited or no protection against competitors. Our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties, may not result in patents being issued. If issued, they may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. We may also rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how to maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, suppliers and others. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached or terminated, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. Our growth strategy anticipates that we will create new products and distribution channels and expand existing distribution channels for our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products and products developed by Rock Creek. Our future growth is also heavily dependent upon increased consumer acceptance of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, non-nicotine nutraceuticals and other pharmaceutical products, as well as on increased demand to license our related technology. If we are unable to effectively manage these initiatives, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. Our long-term growth strategy includes an increased focus on the sales and marketing of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, the introduction of non-nicotine nutraceuticals, tobacco-based pharmaceuticals and our receipt of royalty fees for the licensing of our patented technology for producing low-TSNA tobacco. However, to date sales of our smokeless tobacco products, and our ability to derive revenue from the licensing of our low-TSNA technology, have been de minimis. Beginning in September 2001, we introduced three new smokeless tobacco products, Stonewall® moist and dry snuffs and ARIVA® hard tobacco cigalett® pieces. In the second quarter of 2003, we began a commercial test market of a new, non-fermented spit-free “hard tobacco” product for moist snuff users, called STONEWALL Hard Snuff®. Given our company’s decision to focus on dissolvable smokeless tobacco products, we discontinued manufacturing Stonewall® moist snuff and are not actively marketing Stonewall dry snuff. Additionally, our success is dependent upon the ability to develop and introduce in 2010 a non-nicotine nutraceutical product that may assist persons who have ceased using tobacco or who are in the process for stopping tobacco use maintain a balanced metabolism, and, in the future, related non-nicotine products that may be helpful to consumers in maintaining a healthy metabolism, as well as tobacco-based pharmaceutical products. We have not introduced any nutraceutical product to date. The introduction of pharmaceutical products will require a substantial period of time in order to obtain FDA approval to market such products. As a result, we do not anticipate introducing any pharmaceutical products into the market for the foreseeable future but will focus on the research and development aspects of a range of pharmaceuticals, including tobacco-based drug products, in addition to the development of non-nicotine nutraceutical products. Assuming that we are successful in introducing such products into the market, the success of those products and the success of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products will depend on the willingness and ability of retail customers to market and sell our products to consumers, as well as our success in developing new distribution channels for those products. If our significant retail customers or independent distributors were to reduce the quantity of any of our smokeless tobacco products they currently sell or stop selling our products, or if we are unable to open distribution channels for our new products, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents To date, sales of our dissolvable smokeless products have been slower than expected. We believe this is due in part to the lack of consumer awareness of ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® and the lack of sufficient capital to increase consumer awareness and acceptance of those products. It is not certain whether our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products will be accepted by the market in sufficient volume to support our operations. Adult tobacco users may decide not to purchase our products due to taste or other preferences, including a preference for our competitor’s products or because of the extensive health warnings contained on the packaging for our products. There can be no assurance that in the future our competitors will not succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective than the products we develop, that are less toxic than our products, or that would render our products obsolete or non-competitive. Further, an inability to successfully increase consumer awareness of and demand for our very low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products would negatively affect our ability to license our patented technology for producing low-TSNA tobacco. This accordingly would materially diminish our ability to derive royalty fees from the license of this technology. If we are unable to license our patented technology for producing low-TSNA tobacco, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our efforts to successfully market ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® to adult tobacco users will also require the expenditure of substantial funds that we will need to obtain from external financing, the availability of which cannot be assured, and ultimately these products may not be accepted in the national marketplace. If we are not successful in our efforts to offer low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products to adults as alternatives to cigarettes and other smokeless products, to generate revenue through the license of the related technology to which we are the exclusive licensee or to introduce new nutraceutical and pharmaceutical products, we will not have sufficient sales volumes to support our operations. The tobacco industry is highly competitive, and our competitors may develop technology for the production of low-TSNA tobacco that does not infringe on the technology to which we are the exclusive licensee, or they may develop technology for low-TSNA tobacco or other cigarette alternative products that could make our technology obsolete. Virtually all flue-cured tobacco grown in the United States since 2001 has been cured in a manner to reduce the levels of TSNAs. If our competitors produce low-TSNA tobacco that does not infringe on the technology to which we are the exclusive licensee, or develop other tobacco products with less toxins that can compete with our very low-TSNA products, this could adversely affect our operating income and cash flows. The tobacco industry is highly competitive. STONEWALL Hard Snuff® competes with major manufacturers of smokeless tobacco products and ARIVA® competes with traditional cigarette manufacturers because ARIVA® is positioned as an alternative to cigarettes in situations where adult cigarette users cannot or choose not to smoke. Those companies generally have substantially greater financial and operating resources than we do. Also, these companies have a more established presence in the smokeless tobacco industry than we do. Certain of the major cigarette makers are marketing alternative cigarette products. For example, Philip Morris has developed an alternative cigarette called Accord in which the tobacco is heated rather than burned. RJR has developed an alternative cigarette called Eclipse in which the tobacco is primarily heated, with only a small amount of tobacco burned. Vector Tobacco Inc. developed a cigarette offered in several packings with declining levels of nicotine, called Quest. Further, in 2006 and 2007, both Philip Morris and RJR introduced into test market smokeless tobacco pouch products designed to provide alternatives to cigarettes that utilize their primary brand names (Marlboro Snus and Camel Snus, respectively), and other smokeless tobacco manufactures have introduced products that claim to have reduced levels of carcinogens. In 2009 Altria, Philip Morris’s parent company expanded its role in the smokeless tobacco market through its acquisition of UST. Also, in 2009 RJR introduced into test market three dissolvable smokeless tobacco products that compete directly with our ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® low-TSNA dissolvable smokeless tobacco products. If these initiatives are successful or if our competitors develop new technology for low-TSNA tobacco for use in smokeless tobacco products, we will be subject to increased competition for market share and our current technology for the production of low-TSNA tobacco could become obsolete. 23 Table of Contents Sales of tobacco products have been declining, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and cash flows. The overall U.S. market for cigarettes has generally been declining in terms of volume of sales, as a result of restrictions on advertising and promotions; funding of smoking prevention campaigns; increases in regulation and excise taxes; a decline in the social acceptability of smoking, and other factors, and sales are expected to continue to decline. While the sales of smokeless tobacco products have been increasing over the last several years, the smokeless tobacco market is substantially smaller than the cigarette market. Prior to our exit from the discount cigarette business, we experienced a similar decline in sales of our discount cigarette products, and this downward trend may adversely impact our ability to sell and market our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, particularly as alternatives to cigarettes. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We may face delays in obtaining very low-TSNA tobacco or other raw materials to adequately manufacture our products. As a result of the discontinuation of our business relationship with B&W, and the ongoing burden and expense of the pending patent infringement litigation with RJR, during 2007 we sold approximately 990 tobacco curing barns used for the production of our low-TSNA StarCured® tobacco. We sold our remaining 37 StarCured® tobacco curing barns in December 2009 to growers who had previously participated in the StarCured® program. While we currently do not own any StarCured® barns, we have a significant amount of StarCured® tobacco in inventory and access to StarCured® tobacco through growers who previously participated in our StarCured® tobacco curing program. However, given the sale of our remaining barns, we cannot be assured that we will have sufficient availability to curing barns to meet future demand for our low-TSNA tobacco, particularly if the sales volumes of our very low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products substantially increase over a short period of time. Further, in the event that we are unable to obtain adequate amounts of StarCured® tobacco and other raw materials to meet product demands, our customers may seek to fulfill their supply needs by purchasing competing brands, which in turn would reduce our market share and ability to successfully commercialize our very low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our retail customers or independent distributors, and a loss or material reduction in their business with us could result in reduced sales of our products. Our success is dependent upon the willingness and ability of retail customers to market and sell our products to consumers, as well as our success in developing new channels for our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. If any of our significant retail customers or independent distributors were to reduce the quantity of the products we sell, or to stop selling our products, or if we are unable to open new distribution channels for our products, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our retail customers and independent distributors generally purchase products from us on a purchase-order basis and do not have long-term contracts with us. Consequently, with little or no notice and without penalty, our retail customers and independent distributors may terminate their relationships with us or materially reduce the level of their purchases of our products. If this were to occur with one or more retail customers or independent distributors, who purchase significant quantities of our products, it may be difficult for us to establish substitute relationships in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be successful in introducing and marketing our non-nicotine CigRx™ product. We previously announced our intention to introduce into test market in 2010 a non-nicotine nutraceutical product under the name CigRx™ that is intended to temporarily reduce the desire to smoke We are currently undertaking a series of research studies relating to this product and completing other premarket analysis connected with the expected launch of this product. Depending on the results of the research studies and premarket analysis, the introduction of this product into the market could be delayed or deferred. Also, our success in marking CigRx™ will be dependent on consumer acceptance of this product and our ability to have the product sold to consumers through our existing or new retail channels. If we are not able to attract interest in the product at the consumer level or if we are unable to open new distribution channels for the CigRx™ product, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents We have many potentially dilutive derivative securities outstanding and the issuance of these securities as well as the future sales of our common stock would have a dilutive effect on current stockholders. At March 15, 2010, we had outstanding options granted to directors, employees and consultants to purchase approximately 4,555,200 shares of our common stock, with a weighted-average exercise price of $2.28 per share, of which options for 4,505,200 shares were exercisable at March 15, 2010. We also have outstanding warrants, which are currently exercisable into 23,635,616 shares of our common stock, with a weighted-average exercise price of $1.60 per share. Exercise of outstanding stock options or warrants would cause dilution which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we issue additional shares of our common stock for sale in future financings, our stockholders would experience further dilution. The combination transaction between RJR and B&W may impact negatively upon us. On July 30, 2004, RJR and B&W, the second and third largest cigarette manufacturers, completed the combination of their United States tobacco businesses to create a new publicly traded holding company, Reynolds American Inc. Prior to this combination, we had been party to multiple substantial commercial relationships with B&W for a number of years, including licensing and royalty agreements relating to the purchase of StarCured® tobacco and other low-TSNA tobacco and the financing of our StarCured® tobacco curing barns. Additionally, we are currently involved in significant patent infringement litigation with RJR with respect to certain of our patents related to the production of low-TSNA tobacco. During the pending patent litigation described above, RJR took the position that the new operating entity resulting from the combination of RJR and B&W assumed all of the rights and obligations under the agreements that we previously entered into with B&W, and moved to dismiss our patent infringement case on this basis. The District Court denied RJR’s motion to dismiss, and found that B&W had attempted to assign these agreements to Reynolds American Inc. without our consent. In its ruling the District Court did leave open the question of what impact, if any, the combination may have on the future licensing arrangements with RJR, but noted that those considerations did not impact on the claims asserted in the present litigation. Pursuant to our April 2001 agreement with B&W, as amended by letter agreements dated December 4, 2002 and August 14, 2003, B&W loaned us $29 million to fund our purchase of StarCured® tobacco curing barns. B&W also agreed to a 96-month repayment schedule consisting of equal consecutive monthly installments beginning on January 3, 2006. The loan balance was approximately $9.5 million as of December 31, 2009. Previously, B&W granted us a number of concessions under our agreements, including deferring interest and principal payments and consenting to our incurrence of additional indebtedness Although the security interest that RJR had under the loan terminated when the loan balance fell below $10 million, RJR’s failure to grant us similar concessions in the future could have a number of adverse consequences, including restricting our pursuit of business opportunities with third parties, limiting our ability to raise funds through debt financing and requiring payment of our obligations in circumstances where we may not have sufficient funds available to do so. Since the combination of B&W and RJR, we have had no operational relationship with RJR and given our ongoing patent litigation against RJR, we do not anticipate that we would have the same type of cooperative relationship with RJR as we had with B&W, or that RJR would be inclined to grant concessions similar to those that we received from B&W. We are dependent on the domestic tobacco business. All of our revenues are currently derived from sales of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products. The market for smokeless products is much smaller than the market for smoked tobacco products, and all of our revenue from smokeless tobacco product sales to date has been derived from sales in the United States, except for de minimis amounts of ARIVA® sold in Bermuda, Turkey and Norway, which were discontinued prior to 2007. Accordingly, we do not currently have access to foreign markets to offset the impact of the declining U.S. tobacco market. 25 Table of Contents The tobacco industry is subject to substantial and increasing regulation with respect to the sale and marketing of its products. On June 22, 2009, President Barack Obama signed into law the FDA Tobacco Act, which provides the FDA, with broad authority over all tobacco products through a new division within the FDA (The Center for Tobacco Products). The Center for Tobacco Products has broad authority over the manufacturing, sale and distribution of tobacco products including expanded control over the introduction of new tobacco products, warnings that must be included on all tobacco products and the manner in which tobacco products may be marketed and sold. Many of the changes specified in the FDA Act will be implemented gradually over a period of several years. Tobacco manufacturers were required to register with the FDA by the end of February 2010 and we submitted our registration on a timely basis. Under the FDA Tobacco Act new labeling requirements with expanded health warnings, additional warnings and restrictions on advertising of tobacco products will be put into place during 2010. We are in the process of submitting a new labeling plan to the FDA along with new package labeling to comply with those changes in the law. The FDA Tobacco Act also provides for the establishment of a Scientific Advisory Committee that, among other initiatives, has been designated to undertake an analysis of dissolvable tobacco products and to provide a report on such products within two years after the enactment of the FDA Tobacco Act. As currently implemented, we do not believe the FDA Tobacco Act presents a material risk to our business activities, but there is no assurance that the current legislation as implemented by the FDA will not limit or delay our future initiates or that difficulties and/or delays in obtaining approvals from the FDA will not have an adverse impact on our ability to market our low-TSMA smokeless tobacco products and any related modified risk tobacco products. We have a license from the TTB to manufacture smokeless tobacco products. While we have discontinued our discount cigarette operations subsequent to our entering into a license agreement with Tantus for the exclusive license of our cigarette trademarks Sport®, MainStreet® and GSmoke®, we are not precluded from re-entering the discount cigarette market, although we would need to obtain a new license for any such manufacturing. To the extent that we are unable to maintain our current TTB license or to obtain any additional licenses required by the TTB, this could materially and adversely affect our operations. In October 2004, federal legislation was enacted which eliminated the federal tobacco quota system and price support system through an industry funded buyout of tobacco growers and quota holders. Pursuant to the legislation, manufacturers of tobacco products have been assessed $10.1 billion over a ten-year period to compensate tobacco growers and quota holders for the elimination of their quota rights. Under the buyout legislation 96% of the assessments are made against cigarette sales and 4% against the sales of other tobacco products. Accordingly, the impact of the buyout legislation is less significant in relation to the sale of smokeless tobacco products than for cigarettes. However, if sales of our smokeless tobacco products increase substantially, we would have increased obligations under the buyout legislation. The tobacco industry is subject to substantial and increasing federal, state and local excise taxes. The federal excise tax on smokeless tobacco products is substantially lower than the excise tax for cigarettes, but smokeless tobacco products are subject to substantial and increasing excise taxes. On April 1, 2009 the federal excise tax for snuff increased to $1.51 per pound from $0.585 per pound. Also, it is possible that increased use of smokeless tobacco products could result in more stringent regulation. A number of states have recently considered increases in state excise taxes on smoked and smokeless tobacco products, and while one state has no excise tax on smokeless tobacco products, that state could choose to institute an excise tax and states that currently have an excise tax could choose to increase their tax rate. Further, state excise tax rates vary considerably. For example, the states of Alabama and Maine tax smokeless products at a rate of 12 cents per ounce and $2.02 per ounce, respectively, while the states of South Carolina and Wisconsin impose an excise tax of 5.0% and 100% of wholesale cost, respectively. New or increased excise taxes may result in declines in sales volume for the industry generally, and our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products in particular. This result could adversely affect our operating income and cash flows. 26 Table of Contents We have had substantial obligations under state laws adopted under the Master Settlement Agreement. In November 1998, 46 states and the District of Columbia, or the Settling States, entered into the Master Settlement Agreement, or MSA, to resolve litigation that had been instituted against the major tobacco manufacturers. We did not join the MSA and, as a non-participating manufacturer, we were required to satisfy certain escrow obligations pursuant to statutes that the MSA required the Settling States to adopt in order for such states to receive the full benefits of the settlement. On March 14, 2007, we sold the rights, title and interest in and to all income from and reversionary interest in our MSA escrow accounts, including our 2006 MSA escrow deposits made in April 2007. Although we sold the rights in and to all income from and reversionary interest in the funds deposited into the MSA escrow accounts for the years up to and including 2006, these MSA escrow funds remain in our name and the principal amount of these accounts will be available to satisfy portions of any state judgments or settlements for the type of claims asserted against the major tobacco manufacturers in the suits that resulted in the negotiation of the MSA, if such claims are successfully asserted in litigation against us in the future beacus of our prior cigarette sales. In May 2007, we entered into a license agreement with Tantus for the exclusive licensing of our cigarette trademarks Sport ®, MainStreet® and GSmoke®. We ceased manufacturing cigarettes in June 2007 and, thereafter, we withdrew the certifications for cigarette sales that we previously had obtained in all applicable Settling States. Given the discontinuation of our cigarette operations in June 2007 we did not have any MSA obligation for cigarette sales in MSA states in 2008 and 2009, and do not anticipate having MSA escrow obligations in the future. We may be assessed additional sales and use taxes by the Commonwealth of Virginia. In 2002, the Virginia Department of Taxation asserted a Virginia Sales and Use Tax assessment for the period January 1, 1999, through March 31, 2002, against us with respect to our tobacco-curing barns in the amount of $860,115. We applied for a correction of the assessment and a total abatement of the tax on the grounds that our barns are exempt from sales and use taxes under the industrial use and processing exemption and/or the agricultural exemption. In a letter dated October 7, 2004, our company received notification from the Commonwealth of Virginia that an adverse decision had been made by the Commissioner of Taxation with respect to the sales and use tax assessment previously issued to our company. The sales and use tax assessment plus penalties and interest together, as of December 5, 2009, totaled $1,361,806. We continue to challenge this assessment and have filed a request for reconsideration with the Commissioner of Taxation, and are prepared to take judicial action if the result of the administrative action is unfavorable. The filing of the request for reconsideration stays any collection of the tax assessment, although interest continues to accrue. While we are optimistic that our request for reconsideration will be accepted based on prior rulings in similar cases, if the assessment is not reversed, we will be required to pay the tax, penalties and interest due. Lawsuits may affect our profitability and we have limited insurance coverage for any damages for which we may become liable. We are not, nor have we ever been, named as a defendant in any legal proceedings involving claims arising out of the sale, distribution, manufacture, development, advertising, marketing and claimed health effects relating to the use of our tobacco products. While we believe that the risk of being named a defendant in such a lawsuit is relatively low, we may be named as a defendant in the future as there has been a noteworthy increase in the number of these cases pending. Punitive damages, often in amounts ranging into the hundreds of millions, or even billions of dollars, are asserted in a number of these cases in addition to compensatory and other damages. In the past, we maintained product liability insurance only with respect to claims that tobacco products manufactured by or for us contained any foreign object, i.e. any object that is not intended to be included in the manufactured product. We currently do not maintain such insurance. The product liability insurance we previously maintained did not cover health-related claims such as those that have been made against the major manufacturers of tobacco products. We currently do not have and do not believe that such insurance coverage for health-related claims can be obtained. Beginning in 2001, we embarked on the test market and distribution of new smokeless tobacco products. If, in the future, we are named as a defendant in any actions related to our smokeless tobacco products, we will not have insurance coverage for damages relating to any such claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We intend to introduce into test market a non-nicotine nutraceutical (CigRx™) in 2010. If we are not able to obtain product liability insurance for this product, we will have to self insure against any legal claims relating to product defects or arising out of the sale, distribution and marketing of the CigRx™ product. Such claims if they resulted in an adverse decision against us, could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition. 27 Table of Contents If we do not effectively manage our growth, we may be unable to successfully develop, market and sell our products. Our future revenue and operating results will depend on our ability to manage the anticipated growth of our business. If we are successful in increasing market acceptance for our products, we will be required to manage substantial volume from our customers. To accommodate any such growth and compete effectively, we will be required to attract, integrate, motivate and retain additional highly skilled sales, technical and other employees. We face competition for these people. Our ability to successfully manage such volume also will be dependent on our ability to scale up our tobacco processing and production operations. There can be no assurance that we can overcome the challenge of scaling up our processing and production operations or that our personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future operations. Any failure to implement and improve our operational, financial and management systems or to attract, integrate, motivate and retain additional employees required by future growth, if any, could have a material and adverse effect on our business and prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may lose our key personnel or fail to attract and retain additional personnel. We are highly dependent upon the continued services of our senior management team for our continued success. The loss of any one of Jonnie R. Williams, our Chief Executive Officer, Paul L. Perito, our Chairman, President and Chief Operating Officer, David M. Dean, our Vice President of Sales and Marketing, Park A. Dodd III, our Chief Financial Officer, Robert E. Pokusa, our General Counsel or Curtis Wright, M.D., MPH, Senior Vice-President Medical/Clinical Director of Rock Creek could have a serious negative impact upon our business and operating results. Our future success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain, on a continuing basis, consulting services from highly qualified scientific, technical, management, financial and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development and operation of our business or that given the operating losses that we have suffered over the past seven years that we will have the financial ability to do so. The loss of the services of key personnel or the termination of relationships with independent scientific and medical investigators could have a material and adverse effect on our business. Our directors and executive officers own a large percentage of our voting stock, which allows them to exercise significant control over us, and they may make decisions with which you disagree. Based on stock ownership as of March 15, 2010, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates, own an aggregate of approximately 16.3% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these persons acting together may have the ability to influence matters submitted to our stockholders for approval and to control the management and affairs of our company. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, impede a merger, consolidation, or takeover or other business combination, or discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control. This concentration of control could also have a negative effect on the market price of our shares. 28 Table of Contents Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. The trading price of the shares of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. Our stock has traded at prices ranging from $5.89 to $0.51 during 2008 and 2009. We receive only limited attention from securities analysts and may experience an imbalance between supply and demand for our common stock resulting from low trading volumes. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control, including the following: • developments related to our patents or other proprietary rights, including developments in our litigation against RJR; • developments in our efforts to market smokeless tobacco products; • our success in developing a non-nicotine nutraceutical to help balance the metabolism of former tobacco user or persons looking to stop tobacco use, a pharmaceutical product to treat tobacco-related dependence and related pharmaceutical and nutraceutical products; • announcements of new products, technological innovations, contracts, acquisitions, financings, corporate partnerships or joint ventures by us or our competitors; • negative regulatory action or regulatory approval with respect to our products or our competitors’ products; and • market conditions for the tobacco, pharmaceutical and dietary supplement industries in general. The stock market has, from time to time, and in particular over the last 24 months, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for small companies, and which have often been unrelated to their operating performance or prospects for future operations. These broad fluctuations may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price of our common stock. On November 5, 2009, we received a Nasdaq Staff Deficiency Letter, indicating that we were not in compliance with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing set forth in NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(1), because the bid price per share of the our common stock closed below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days. The letter also stated that in accordance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we will be provided 180 calendar days, or until May 4, 2010, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule. In its letter, Nasdaq indicated that if, at any time prior to May 4, 2010, the closing bid price of our common stock remains at or above $1.00 per share for at least 10 consecutive business days, Nasdaq will likely provide us with written conformation of compliance and the matter will be closed. Our deficiency with respect to Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 5450(a)(1) has no effect on our current listing status on the Nasdaq Global Market or the ability to trade our shares of common stock. As of March 15, 2010, the closing consolidated bid price of our common stock has exceeded $1.00 for nine consecutive trading days. If we are unable to regain compliance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we will have to evaluate our options to remain listed on the Nasdaq Global Market, which could include effectuating a reverse stock split by way of amendment to our certificate of incorporation or seeking alternative listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Amendment to our certificate of incorporation to effectuate a reverse stock split requires approval of our shareholders, and there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such approval. Additionally, transfer to the Nasdaq Capital Market would require our company to be in a position to meet certain listing standards. If we are unable to continue to meet the Nasdaq listing requirements, we could face delisting from the Nasdaq Global Market or be unable to qualify for listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market, which could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. Our research & development efforts may not result in commercially viable products and may continue to be curtailed by our lack of available research funds. Our company’s research and development efforts have been directed at assessing the impact that products with reduced toxin levels may have on the range of serious health hazards linked with the use of conventional smoked and smokeless tobacco products, as well as encouraging scientists in the U.S. and Europe to pursue TSNA-related research. Since 2007, through our Rock Creek subsidiary, we also have been exploring the development of botanical based products for the treatment of tobacco dependence, as well as products that would utilize certain MAO agents in tobacco to treat a range of neurological conditions, including Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, schizophrenia depression and non-nicotine nutraceuticals. Our future product development initiatives will be substantially dependent on our ability to continue our research initiatives and to obtain the funding necessary to support these initiatives. Our inability to continue these initiatives and initiate new research and development efforts could result in a failure to develop new products or to improve our current products, which could have a material and adverse impact on our sales, operating income and cash flows. 29 Table of Contents We are subject to risks inherent in new product development initiatives, particularly with respect to our goal of developing pharmaceutical products to treat tobacco-related dependence and other neurological conditions, which are subject to FDA regulation and approvals, and for related products such as nutraceuticals. Our future success is substantially dependent upon implementation of our business strategy related to our new product initiatives. Since 2007, through our Rock Creek subsidiary, we have been exploring the development of botanical based products for the treatment of tobacco dependence, as well as products that would utilize certain MAO agents in tobacco to treat a range of neurological conditions, including Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, schizophrenia and depression. Rock Creek also has been involved in pursuing non-nicotine nutraceutical products. These initiatives are subject to high levels of risk, uncertainties and contingencies, including the challenges inherent in new product development, FDA regulatory approval for any new pharmaceutical products that we develop, and FDA regulatory oversight for nutraceuticals and for new tobacco products under the recently enacted FDA Tobacco Act. Also, tobacco products are subject to multiple, overlapping federal and state regulations and products derived from tobacco could be classified as tobacco products or drug products depending on their chemical composition, intended use and claims. Additionally, the Dietary Supplement Health Education Act provides the FDA with authority over the production and marketing of dietary supplements. In certain cases DSHEA also requires notification to the FDA before a company begins to market a dietary supplement and, if structure or function claims are made for a product in the product labeling, notification of such claims within thirty days of the introduction of the product into commerce. DSHEA also implements significant manufacturing and marketing requirements, including that dietary supplements be manufactured under “good manufacturing g practices” and that the label, labeling and advertising for such products meet specific requirements. DSHEA does not require prior approval by the FDA for the introduction of dietary supplements into the market, but does require that the nutraceutical products being developed by our Rock Creek subsidiary comply with the requirements of DSHEA prior to and after their introduction into commerce. If products are manufactured and sold as dietary supplements it is possible that FDA may challenge the status of a product classification. FDA may also challenge the types of claims made for a dietary supplement or its indications for use and the FTC also has jurisdiction over advertising of nutraceuticals and other OTC products. Rock Creek does not have any pharmaceutical products cleared or approved for commercialization, or any current sources of revenue. We intend to introduce in 2010 into test market a non-nicotine nutraceutical (CigRx™) developed by Rock Creek, however, our commercialization of CigRx™ will have to comply with the requirements of DSHEA, which could cause a significant delay in fully commercializing this product. The future success of our Rock Creek business will depend on our ability to obtain regulatory clearance or approval to market new drug products and our ability to comply with statutory and regulatory requirements for any nutraceuticals products, create product sales, successfully introduce new products, establish our sales force and distribution network, and obtain access to additional working capital to finance our development initiatives, all of which we may be unable to realize. Additionally, if any dietary supplement developed by us through Rock Creek, is determined to be a pharmaceutical product, as opposed to a dietary supplement, the product would need to be submitted to the FDA for approval as a new drug prior to it being sold in the United States. Even if we develop a viable pharmaceutical product through Rock Creek, we may not obtain or maintain the necessary FDA approvals for our product, or such approvals may be delayed, which would mean that we would be unable to commercially distribute and market our product. The process of seeking regulatory clearance or approval to market a pharmaceutical product is expensive and time consuming and, notwithstanding the effort and expense incurred, clearance or approval is never guaranteed. Also, the FDA has substantial discretion in the drug approval process. We cannot market a drug product in the United States unless it has been approved by the FDA. The FDA approval process involves, among other things, successfully completing clinical trials under an Investigational New Drug Application and obtaining a premarket approval after filing a New Drug Application. Clinical trials are expensive and uncertain. The NDA process would require us to prove the safety and efficacy of our product to the FDA’s satisfaction. If our clinical trials fail to produce sufficient data to support an NDA, it will take us longer to ultimately commercialize a product and generate revenue, or the delay could result in our being unable to do so. Moreover, our development costs will increase if, to achieve sufficient data to support an NDA, we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. Even if we are successful in developing a pharmaceutical product, if we are not successful in obtaining timely clearance or approval of the product from the FDA, we may never be able to generate sufficient revenue to support the successful commercialization of the product. Also any FDA approved product will be subject to continuing review and the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising and promotion of any such product will be subject to extensive regulation. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any written comments from the SEC staff regarding our company’s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or Current Reports on Form 8-K in the 180 days preceeding December 31, 2009. 