Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s business has been operating at a loss for the past four years and continues to use more cash than is being generated from operations; absent improving results of operations, we will need to raise additional capital by early 2009 to meet working capital needs The Company has been operating at a loss for the past four years. In addition, the Company is required to make annual MSA escrow payments that are not accounted for in working capital. The Company expects this year’s total escrow deposits (which are due in April 2007 for 2006 sales) to be approximately $500,000 based on its prior payments, a decrease in total cigarette sales in 2006 and its successful efforts to limit sales in MSA states. Our future prospects in the long term are dependent on the distribution and consumer acceptance of our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products as well as the continued development of new low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, independently and through alliances with other tobacco manufacturers, given the decrease in cigarette sales over the past four years. Also, our long term prospects will be dependent on our ability to begin generating significant revenues through royalties from the patented tobacco curing process to which we are the exclusive licensee. However, our ability to generate revenues through such royalty payments will also be dependent upon the successful completion of our ongoing patent infringement lawsuit against RJR. In that lawsuit, the United States District Court for the District of Maryland in January 2007 issued a ruling finding that two of the Company’s patent which are at issue in that litigation are invalid because the term “anaerobic condition” as used in the patents is indefinite. That decision and a related ruling will be appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit once the Court issues a ruling on RJR’s inequitable conduct defense and a final judgment is entered or if leave is granted to file an interlocutory appeal in the interim. The recurring losses generated by our operations continue to impose significant demands on our liquidity. In 2006, we generated $10.0 million through the sale of our common stock by entering into certain securities purchase and registration rights agreements (the “Purchase Agreements”) and through exercise of warrants issued under Purchase Agreements. In March 2007, the Company entered into an agreement under which it received a payment of approximately $11.5 million in return for assigning to the purchasers the right to interest paid in the Company’s escrow fund and any releases of the escrow principal for any overpayments, or, if those funds are not used to satisfy judgments or settlements by the Settling States, releases of the principal on a rolling basis after twenty-five years. Also, the Company in March 2007 sold approximately 960 of its tobacco curing barns for approximately $11.2 million and anticipates completing sales of a total of approximately 990 curing barns this month for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $11.6 million. With the proceeds from these transactions, we believe that we will have sufficient funds to support our operations through 2008. Absent the successful completion of our ongoing patent infringement lawsuit against RJR, the exercise of outstanding warrants, a substantial improvement in revenues and/or royalties from smokeless tobacco products, we believe that it will be necessary to pursue additional sources of funds in early 2009. However, depending upon market conditions and the price of our common stock, we may decide to seek additional funds before that time. Our cigarette business, which has generated a substantial majority of our revenues in the past, continues to experience declines in shipments as well as increased market pressures and we may not be able to reverse this trend A substantial majority of our revenues historically has been derived from sales of our discount cigarettes which are sold though Star Tobacco, Inc. (“ST”), our wholly owned subsidiary. Since 2000, however, our discount cigarette business has experienced a significant decline in sales, partly caused by intensified pricing competition from foreign manufacturers (see “Competition from other tobacco companies has adversely affected us and may continue to do so”). Despite our efforts to reenergize cigarette sales, shipments in 2006 continued to decline compared to prior years and we face potential and actual increases in regulatory and excise tax costs. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee we will be able to reverse the downward trend in our discount cigarette business. Given the continued decline in cigarette sales, we will continue to evaluate the prospects for our cigarette business in general and in particular, sales in MSA states, in light of the additional regulatory and MSA burdens of operating in those states. In addition, we must pay a portion of our gross profits on cigarette sales into escrow in April of each year to meet our obligations under the MSA. Because the funds deposited into escrow are not available to meet our other cash needs, even if we were able to generate net income from our cigarette business, we would not necessarily generate positive cash flow from operations, when taking into account these escrow payments. Additionally, beginning in January 2005 we have been required to make further payments pursuant to the tobacco farmer buyout program which were not required in previous years. This 20 Table of Contents program has added a cost of approximately $0.50 to each carton of cigarettes sold by us effective January 1, 2005 and a comparable cost for smokeless products which will continue over the ten-year life of the program. As part of this program, we also may be subject to assessments for certain loan loss costs and administration costs. These assessments will be charged to operations when assessed and paid over several quarters, if allowed, rather than over the life of the buyout program. We completed making payments on one such assessment in December 2006, which was in the amount of $1.1 million and had been paid in installments over six quarters beginning in the first quarter of 2005. If we are not able to increase our revenues and gross profits from cigarette sales, our ability to earn net income and generate positive cash flow from operations will depend on our ability to grow our revenues from royalties and sales of our smokeless tobacco products, which have provided only de minimis revenues to date. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property rights Our success in commercially exploiting our licensed tobacco curing technology and low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products depends in large part on our ability to defend issued patents, to obtain further patent protection for the technology in the United States and other jurisdictions, and to operate without infringing upon the patents and proprietary rights of others. Additionally, we must be able to obtain appropriate licenses to patents or proprietary rights held by third parties if infringement would otherwise occur, both in the United States and in foreign countries. Patent positions are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles are unresolved. Any conflicts resulting from third party patent applications and patents could significantly reduce the coverage of our patents and limit our ability to obtain meaningful patent protection. If patents are issued to other companies that contain competitive or conflicting claims, we may be required to obtain licenses to these patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. Such licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If such licenses are not obtained, we could be delayed in or prevented from pursuing the development or commercialization of our products. Litigation, which could result in substantial cost, may also be necessary to enforce any patents to which we have rights, or to determine the scope, validity and unenforceability of other parties’ proprietary rights which may affect our rights. There are always risks in any litigation. U.S. patents carry a presumption of validity and generally can be invalidated only through clear and convincing evidence. We may also have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of an invention, which could result in substantial cost to the Company. Moreover, the mere uncertainty resulting from the institution and continuation of any technology-related litigation or interference proceeding could have a material and adverse effect on our business and prospects. In particular, we have been prosecuting patent infringement claims against RJR in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. The two patents for producing low-TSNA tobacco that are at issue in our patent infringement litigation against RJR have been held to be invalid on the basis that the term “anaerobic condition” is indefinite. That decision and a related ruling will be appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit once the Court issues a ruling on RJR’s inequitable conduct defense and a final judgment is entered or if leave is granted to file an interlocutory appeal in the interim. Unless the decision of the District Court is reversed on appeal, we will not be able to enforce or license the two patents for producing low-TSNA tobacco that are at issue in our patent litigation against RJR. Also, if the Court were to rule against the Company on the inequitable conduct defense that was tried in early 2005, and which is currently pending, we would be required to appeal that decision and obtain a reversal in order to be in a position to enforce the patents. We may also rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how to maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, suppliers and others. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached or terminated, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. Our prospects for success as a technology-oriented tobacco company with a mission to reduce toxins in tobacco leaf and tobacco smoke are dependent, over the long term, on the distribution and consumer acceptance of our very low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, and our ability to license our patented technology as well as on the continued development of new very low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, independently and through alliances with tobacco manufacturers and potentially other third parties We have previously announced our plan to concentrate our long-term efforts on our very low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products, our receipt of royalty fees for hard tobacco products and on licensing our patented technology for producing low-TSNA tobacco. However, to date these royalties and sales of our smokeless tobacco products have been de minimis. In the 21 Table of Contents Company’s patent litigation against RJR, the United States District Court for the District of Maryland in January 2007 issued a ruling finding that two of the Company’s patent which are at issue in this litigation are invalid because the term “anaerobic condition” as used in the patents is indefinite. That decision and a related ruling will be appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit once the Court issues a ruling on RJR’s inequitable conduct defense and a final judgment is entered or if leave is granted to file an interlocutory appeal in the interim. Beginning in September 2001, we introduced three new smokeless tobacco products, Stonewall® moist and dry snuffs and ARIVA® hard tobacco cigalett® pieces. Beginning in the second quarter of 2003, we began a commercial test market of a new, non-fermented spit-free® “hard tobacco” product for moist snuff users, called STONEWALL Hard Snuff®. Given the Company’s decision to focus on hard snuff smokeless tobacco products, the Company has discontinued manufacturing Stonewall® moist snuff and is not actively marketing Stonewall dry snuff. To date, sales of our smokeless products have been slower than expected, in part, we believe, due to the lack of consumer awareness of those products, particularly ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® and lack of sufficient capital to increase consumer awareness of and acceptance of those products. It is not certain whether our low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products will be accepted by the market in sufficient volume to support our operations. Adult tobacco users may decide not to purchase our products due to taste or other preferences, or because of the extensive health warnings contained on the packaging for our products. Our efforts to successfully market ARIVA® and STONEWALL Hard Snuff® will require the expenditure of substantial funds, which we will need to obtain from external financing, the availability of which cannot be assured, and ultimately these products may not be accepted in the national marketplace. If the Company is not successful in its efforts to offer very low-TSNA smokeless tobacco products to adults as alternatives to cigarettes and other smokeless products or generate revenue through the related technology to which we are the exclusive licensee, we will not have sufficient sales of other products to offset declining cigarettes revenues. This would adversely affect our sales volumes, operating income and cash flows, as well as our ability to pay our debts. The combination transaction between RJR and B&W may impact negatively upon the Company On July 30, 2004, RJR, a subsidiary of B&W, and certain of their affiliated tobacco businesses combined operations under the new publicly traded holding company, Reynolds American Inc., which is 42% owned by British American Tobacco PLC, the parent company of B&W. Star and B&W had been party to multiple, substantial commercial relationships for a number of years prior to this combination, and Star and RJR are currently involved in significant patent infringement litigation. During the pending patent litigation described above, RJR took the position that the new operating entity resulting from the combination of RJR and B&W, assumed all of the rights and obligations under the agreements previously entered into between Star and B&W, and moved to dismiss our patent infringement case on this basis. After full briefing the Court denied RJR’s motion to dismiss, and found that B&W had attempted to assign the Star/B&W agreements to the new subsidiary, and that Star had not consented to the assignment. The Court further found that the de facto merger doctrine did not apply. In its ruling the Court did leave open the question of what impact, if any, the combination may have on the future licensing arrangements with RJR, but noted that those considerations did not impact on the claims asserted in the present litigation. We have had important relationships with B&W that post-merger with RJR could become risks Prior to the combination of B&W and RJR, we had important business relationships with B&W, including licensing and royalty agreements relating to the purchase of StarCured® tobacco and other low-TSNA tobacco as well as the financing of curing barns. Under our Restated Master Agreement with B&W, as amended by several letter agreements we owed B&W for the purchase of StarCured® tobacco curing barns. Beginning January 1, 2006, interest began accruing on the debt at prime plus 1% and we began making payments on the principal balance of the debt. These payments are due in 96 monthly installments of approximately $208,116. The debt is secured by tobacco leaf inventory and a certain portion of our tobacco curing barns. Once the outstanding loan balance is reduced to $10 million, the collateral will be released by B&W. The loan balance on the long-term debt was $17,472,503 as of December 31, 2006. As of January 1, 2006, we also had another note payable obligation to B&W. This debt is being repaid in monthly principal payments of $250,000 plus monthly interest payments at prime plus 1% on the outstanding balance. The outstanding balance on this debt as of December 31, 2006 was $1,961,743. Pursuant to a Hard Tobacco Agreement entered into with B&W in April 2001, B&W test marketed a hard tobacco product in 2003 and again in 2004. In December 2004, Star was notified by RJR that the test market was not successful and that, as a result, the Hard Tobacco Agreement was terminated. In the past, B&W has purchased significant quantities of StarCured® tobacco from us, which we in turn purchased from our participating StarCured® farmers. B&W has not purchased tobacco from us since 2004 and does not have an obligation to make purchases from us in the future. Because of our inability to purchase tobacco from our participating farmers, the Company in 2007 sought to disband its StarCured® tobacco curing program and to sell the tobacco curing barns that were being maintained by the participating farmers to those farmers or to other third parties. 22 Table of Contents In recent years, B&W has granted us a number of concessions under our agreements, including deferring interest and principal payments, consenting to our incurrence of additional indebtedness and agreeing to modify the Hard Tobacco Agreement to allow us to pursue similar licensing arrangements with third parties. B&W’s failure to grant us similar concessions in the future could have a number of adverse consequences, including restricting our pursuit of business opportunities with B&W or third parties, limiting our ability to raise funds through debt financing and requiring payment of our obligations to them in circumstances where we may not have sufficient funds available to do so. Post-merger with B&W, Star has no operational relationship with RJR, under the agreements entered into with B&W. In addition, we are involved in patent litigation against RJR for infringement of our tobacco curing technology. Given those facts, we do not anticipate that we would have the same type of cooperative relationship with RJR as we had with B&W or that RJR would be inclined to grant concessions similar to those that we received from B&W. We are dependent on the domestic tobacco business All of our revenue for discount cigarette sales since 2000 was derived from sales in the United States. The U.S. cigarette market has been contracting in recent years and pricing pressures in the discount cigarette business have been increasing. As the U.S. cigarette market continues to contract, this trend could adversely affect our sales volumes, operating income and cash flows. The market for smokeless products is much smaller than the market for smoked tobacco products, and all of our revenue from smokeless tobacco product sales to date has been derived from sales in the United States, except for de minimis amounts of ARIVA® sold in Bermuda, Turkey and Norway which were discontinued prior to 2006. Accordingly, we do not currently have access to foreign markets to offset the impact of the declining U.S. cigarette market. Competition from other tobacco companies could adversely affect us The tobacco industry is highly competitive. Our primary competition for conventional cigarettes has been the “major” cigarette manufacturers, each of which has substantially greater financial and operating resources than we do. We have encountered significant competition from several other smaller U.S. manufacturers of cigarettes, as well as importers of cigarettes manufactured in foreign countries. Many of these manufacturers and importers have substantially greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and other resources than we do. STONEWALL Hard Snuff® competes with major smokeless manufacturers, and ARIVA® competes with traditional cigarette manufacturers, because ARIVA® is positioned as an alternative to cigarettes in situations where adult cigarette users cannot or choose not to smoke. Those companies generally have substantially greater financial and operating resources than we do. Also, these companies have a more established presence in the smokeless tobacco industry than we do. Tobacco companies may use low-TSNA tobacco that does not infringe on the technology to which we are the exclusive licensee or may develop technology for low-TSNA tobacco that could make our technology obsolete Virtually all flue-cured tobacco grown in the United States since 2001 has been cured in a manner to reduce the levels of TSNAs. If competitors produce low-TSNA tobacco that does not infringe on the technology to which we are the exclusive licensee, or develop other tobacco products with less toxins that can compete with our very low-TSNA products, this could adversely affect our operating income and cash flows. Additionally, competitors may develop new technology for low-TSNA tobacco that could make our current technology obsolete. We may not be able to enforce or license our patents for producing low-TSNA tobacco The two patents for producing low-TSNA tobacco that are at issue in our patent infringement litigation against RJR have been held to be invalid on the basis that the term “anaerobic condition” is indefinite. That decision and a related ruling will be appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit once the Court issues a ruling on RJR’s inequitable conduct defense and a final judgment is entered or if leave is granted to file an interlocutory appeal in the interim. Unless the decision of the District Court is reversed on appeal, we will not be able to enforce or license the two patents for producing low-TSNA tobacco that are at issue in our patent litigation against RJR. Also, if the Court were to rule against the Company on the inequitable conduct defense that was tried by the Court in early 2005, and which is currently pending, we would be required to appeal that decision and obtain a reversal in order to be in a position to enforce the patents. The tobacco industry is subject to substantial and increasing regulation and taxation Various federal, state and local laws limit the advertising, sale and use of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products, and these laws have proliferated in recent years. If this trend continues, it may have material and adverse effects on our sales volumes, operating income and cash flows. In addition, cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products are subject to substantial and increasing excise taxes. The federal excise tax on cigarettes rose from $.34 per pack in 2000 to $.39 per pack in 2002. The federal excise tax on smokeless tobacco products is substantially lower ($0.585 per pound). A number of states have 23 Table of Contents recently considered increases in state excise taxes on smoked and smokeless tobacco products. For example, Texas increased the per-pack tax for cigarettes by $1.00 as of January 1, 2007. While several states have no excise tax on smokeless products, tax rates in other states vary considerably. For example, the states of Alabama and North Dakota tax smokeless products at a rate of 1.5 cents per ounce and 65 cents per ounce, respectively, while the states of North Carolina and Oregon impose an excise tax of 3% and 65% of wholesale cost, respectively. Present state excise taxes for cigarettes range from $0.30 per pack in Kentucky to $2.46 per pack in Rhode Island. Increased excise taxes may result in declines in sales volume for the industry as a whole. This result could adversely affect our operating income and cash flows. In addition, several states have imposed additional fees on cigarettes sold by manufacturers who are not signatories to the MSA or who have not previously entered into settlements with the non-MSA states. Such additional fees could adversely impact on our sales volumes and cash flows. Also, a number of MSA states have passed statutes or regulations requiring that cigarettes meet prescribed fire safety standards. We have decided that it would not be economically feasible to develop a separate cigarette for sale in these states, and we will no longer sell cigarettes in those states once such statutes and regulations go into effect. We currently have licenses from the TTB to manufacture cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products. To the extent that we are unable to maintain our current licenses or to obtain any additional licenses required by the TTB, this could materially and adversely affect our operations. In 1996, the FDA promulgated regulations governing the sale and advertising of tobacco products. These regulations were designed primarily to discourage the sale to, and consumption by, adolescents and children. The authority of the FDA to promulgate such regulations was challenged in the federal courts. On March 21, 2000, the United States Supreme Court in a five to four decision held that the Congress has not given the FDA authority to regulate tobacco products as customarily marketed. Given the decision by the Supreme Court it is unclear whether Congress will act to grant such authority to the FDA, although legislation that would create such authority has been introduced previously in Congress and new bills that would grant FDA authority over all tobacco products were introduced in both the Senate and House in February 2007. In late 2004, tobacco quota buyout legislation was enacted into law which requires all tobacco manufactures to pay for the cost of the buyout over the next ten years. Beginning in January 2005, we have been required to make payments of approximately $0.50 per carton for our cigarette products and a comparable cost for smokeless tobacco products. As part of the program, we also are subject to assessments for certain loan loss costs and administrative costs. These assessments will be recorded when received and paid over several quarters, rather than over the life of the buyout program. The Company, and other tobacco manufacturers have increased prices to cover the cost of the buyout program. While the increased cost could have a negative impact on purchases of cigarettes by consumers, the impact of this added cost is expected to be proportional across the industry. We have substantial obligations under state laws adopted under the Master Settlement Agreement Pursuant to the terms of the Master Settlement Agreement, we have an obligation to deposit into escrow accounts a base amount equal to $3.35 per carton for sales in 2006 and $3.77 per carton each year thereafter, for sales of cigarettes occurring in each MSA Settling State. A cumulative inflation adjustment is also added to these deposits at the higher of 3% or the Consumer Price Index each year. For sales in 2006, the total escrow cost per carton was $4.29. The failure to place such required amounts into escrow could result in severe penalties to us and potential restrictions on our ability to sell tobacco products within particular states. Because of this escrow requirement, a substantial portion of our net income from operations has been unavailable for our use and the amount required to be placed in escrow may exceed the net cash flow generated by each carton sold. As a result, we have experienced negative cash flows from operations, which, among other things, has affected our ability to apply the capital generated from our present cigarette sales to the further scientific development of less toxic and potentially less hazardous tobacco products and to the growth of our business. In addition, the escrow obligations could impede our ability to distribute dividends to our stockholders. We have tried to mitigate the costs of the MSA by focusing our field sales force and our efforts on increasing market share in states that were not participants in the MSA, among other approaches. The MSA States have taken the position that the Company is responsible to escrow funds for any sales in MSA States whether made by ST directly or by a third party to whom ST has sold product. The Company is in full compliance for escrow obligations through 2006 and currently has approximately $38.3 million in escrow. The Company will be required to make deposits into escrow of 2006 sales by April 15, 2007. In addition, most of the MSA states have enacted statutes that require non-participating manufacturers to certify that they are in full compliance with the escrow requirements of the MSA as a condition to being permitted to sell cigarette products in those states. While the Company has recently focused its sales in the four states that are not part of the MSA, failure to comply with these statutes would negatively impact on the Company’s ability to sell cigarettes in those MSA states, notwithstanding our substantial payments into escrow. 24 Table of Contents We may be assessed additional sales and use taxes by the Commonwealth of Virginia In a letter dated October 7, 2004, the Company received notification from the Commonwealth of Virginia that an adverse decision had been made by the Commissioner of Taxation with respect to the sales and use tax assessment previously issued to the Company and that the sales and use tax assessment plus penalties and interest together, as of October 7, 2004, totaled approximately $988,000. The Company continues to challenge this assessment and has filed a request for reconsideration with the Commissioner of Taxation, and is prepared to file a judicial action if the administrative action is not favorable. The filing of the request for reconsideration stays any collection of the tax assessment, although interest continues to accrue. While the Company is optimistic that its request for reconsideration will be accepted based on prior rulings in similar cases, if the assessment is not reversed, the Company will be required to pay the tax, penalties and interest due. We May Have Additional Federal Tax Obligations. In 2004, the Company was notified that its 2001 tax return had been selected for examination by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). In the course of its conduct of this examination, the IRS has expanded the scope of the examination to include all of the Company’s returns that have been filed for the years ended December 31, 2002 through 2004. In 2005, the Company’s request for a private letter ruling, which related to the years under IRS examination, was resolved generally in its favor. The statute of limitations for taxable years 2001 and 2002 have been extended by mutual agreement through September 15, 2007. All information requested by the IRS in connection with its examination has been provided by the Company. The IRS may request additional information as the examination is ongoing. There have been some discussions with the IRS relating to the timing of certain deductions and a brief supporting the Company’s position has been submitted. Since the Company’s returns for such years are currently under examination and the timing of certain deductions has been raised, it is reasonably possible that adjustments may be proposed that result in liability to the Company. The Company has estimated a range of potential liability of from $0 to approximately $1.7 million. The Company believes the returns filed for such years are substantially correct and intends to vigorously contest any proposed liability through all available means including judicial proceedings if necessary. Lawsuits may affect our profitability; we have limited insurance coverage We are not, nor have we ever been, named as a defendant in any legal proceedings involving claims arising out of the sale, distribution, manufacture, development, advertising, marketing and claimed health effects relating to the use of our tobacco products. While we believe that the risk of being named a defendant in such a lawsuit is relatively low, we may be named as a defendant in the future as there has been a noteworthy increase in the number of these cases pending. Punitive damages, often in amounts ranging into the hundreds of millions, or even billions of dollars, are specifically pleaded in a number of these cases in addition to compensatory and other damages. In the past, we maintained product liability insurance only with respect to claims that tobacco products manufactured by or for us contained any foreign object, i.e. any object that is not intended to be included in the manufactured product. We currently do not maintain such insurance. The product liability insurance we previously maintained did not cover health-related claims such as those that have been made against the major manufacturers of tobacco products. We do not believe that such insurance currently can be obtained. Accordingly, our inclusion in any of these actions or any future action could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, beginning in 2001, we embarked on the test market and distribution of new smokeless tobacco products. To the extent the sale and distribution of such products results in any health-related claims, such claims could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition. We may not properly manage our growth If we are successful in increasing market acceptance for our products, we will be required to manage substantial volume from our customers. To accommodate any such growth and compete effectively, we will be required to attract, integrate, motivate and retain additional highly skilled sales, technical and other employees. We face competition for these people. Our ability to successfully manage such volume also will be dependent on our ability to scale up our tobacco processing and production operations. There can be no assurance that we can overcome the challenge of scaling up our processing and production operations or that our personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future operations. Any failure to implement and improve our operational, financial and management systems or to attract, integrate, motivate and retain additional employees required by future growth, if any, could have a material and adverse effect on our business and prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents We depend on key personnel We depend upon the continued services of our senior management team for our continued success. The loss of any one of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, Jonnie R. Williams, the Company’s Chairman, President and Chief Operating Officer, Paul L. Perito, the Vice President of Sales and Marketing, David M. Dean, the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, Christopher G. Miller or the Company’s General Counsel, Robert E. Pokusa, could have a serious negative impact upon our business and operating results. The Company’s success depends in large part on its ability to attract and retain, on a continuing basis, consulting services from highly qualified scientific, technical, management, financial and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development and operation of our business or that given the losses that the Company has suffered over the past four years that we will have the financial ability to do so. The loss of the services of key personnel or the termination of relationships with independent scientific and medical investigators could have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s business. Management and significant stockholders can exercise influence over the Company Based upon stock ownership as of December 31, 2006, our executive officers, directors and their associates, own an aggregate of approximately 29.2% of our outstanding shares. As a result, these persons acting together may have the ability to control matters submitted to our stockholders for approval and to control the management and affairs of the Company. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company, impede a merger, consolidation, or takeover or other business combination, or discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control. This concentration of control could also have a negative effect on the market price of our shares. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value The trading price of the shares of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile. Since 2005, our stock has traded at prices ranging from $1.68 on August 2, 2006, to $6.49 on February 23, 2005, and $3.25 on December 29, 2006 and $0.78 as of February 5, 2007. We receive only limited attention by securities analysts and may experience an imbalance between supply and demand for our common stock resulting from low trading volumes. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control, including the following: • developments related to our patents or other proprietary rights, including developments in our litigation against RJR; • developments in our efforts to market smokeless tobacco products; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, technological innovations, contracts, acquisitions, financings, corporate partnerships or joint ventures; • negative regulatory action or regulatory approval with respect to our products or our competitors’ products; and • market conditions for the tobacco industry in general. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices for small companies and which have often been unrelated to their operating performance. These broad fluctuations may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price of our common stock. On January 31, 2007, our stock traded below $1.00 per share and remained below $1.00 per share for five days. After closing at $1.00 on February 7, 2007, the stock traded below $1.00 per share and remained below $1.00 per share for 14 days. Under rules of the NASDAQ Global Market, if our stock trades below $1.00 a share for 30 consecutive business days, the NASDAQ will issue a notice of intent to delist the Company if its shares do not trade above $1.00 per share for ten consecutive business days during the next 180 calendar days and we do not otherwise comply with NASDAQ listing requirements. While this period may subsequently be extended, if the Company’s shares do not trade at above $1.00 for substantial periods, there is a possibility that the Company could face delisting on the NASDAQ exchange, which could have a negative effect on the market price for our shares. Future sales of our common stock would have a dilutive effect on current stockholders If we issue additional shares of our common stock for sale in future financings, our stockholders would experience dilution. 26 Table of Contents Our research & development efforts may not result in commercially viable products and may continue to be curtailed by our lack of available research funds Consistent with our efforts to cut costs, the Company deferred certain research projects beginning in the last half of 2003. We expect our spending on research for 2007 to be at a de minimis level, while we continue to concentrate our efforts and resources on our ongoing patent infringement lawsuit against RJR. Presently, our research focus is directed to assessing the impact that products with reduced toxin levels may have on the range of serious health hazards associated with the use of conventional smoked and smokeless tobacco products. While our research work has been deferred as a result of the lack of available working capital, the Company has designed several additional scientific studies to assess, among other things, whether a reduction in TSNAs can be equated with a reduction in health risk, biomarker differences that can be equated to levels of various toxins in smoked versus smokeless tobacco, and the impact of the decline in TSNA exposure in low-TSNA smokeless tobacco compared to traditional cigarette products. However, because of monetary constraints we are not moving forward with these studies at this time. When we initiate these studies, they will be conducted by independent laboratories and universities. We hope to renew our research and development efforts in 2007, subject to the availability of funds. However, such research may not result in new products reaching the market, or in any improvements to our current products. This could occur for a number of reasons, including if potential new products: • fail to receive any necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all; • are precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties; or • are uneconomical or fail to achieve market acceptance. Failure to develop new products or to improve our current products could have a material and adverse impact on our net sales, operating income and cash flows. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, as a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and our stock price The Company has previously determined that its internal control over financial reporting is effective and our outside auditors have issued a report concurring in that assessment. If the Company fails to maintain its internal controls over financial reporting, this could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative impact on the trading price for our stock. 