Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks related to our business and industry Federal, state and local budgetary shortfalls or changes in reimbursement policies could adversely affect our revenues and profitability and collectability of receivables. We derive a substantial amount of our revenues from federal, state and local government agencies, including state Medicaid programs and employment training programs. Our revenues therefore depend to a large degree on the size of the governmental appropriations for the services we provide. Budgetary pressures, issues with the federal government’s debt ceiling, as well as economic, industry, political and other factors, could influence governments to significantly decrease or eliminate appropriations for these services, which could reduce our revenues materially. The majority of states have forecasted budget shortfalls as a result of the current economic environment. Many state governments also continue to experience shortfalls in their Medicaid budgets despite cost containment efforts. The recent health reform legislation places further demands on Medicaid budgets by mandating that states expand Medicaid eligibility. Future federal or state initiatives could institute managed care programs for individuals we serve, eliminate programs or otherwise make material changes to the Medicaid program as it now exists. Future revenues may be affected by changes in rate-setting structures, methodologies or interpretations that may be proposed or are under consideration in states where we operate. Our ability to collect accounts receivable is also subject to developments at state payor agencies, state budget pressures, economic conditions and other factors outside our control that may cause us to record higher provisions for allowances for doubtful accounts or incur bad debt write-offs, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Changes in reimbursement procedures by the states, including engaging new agents to manage the reimbursement function, may delay reimbursement payments and create backlogs. Paying aged receivables may be a lower priority for states experiencing budgetary pressures despite our meeting applicable billing requirements. This may increase the need to pursue more aggressive collection activities, including litigation, against government agencies and other payors. Events that delay or prevent our collection of accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Furthermore, federal, state and local government agencies generally condition their contracts with us upon a sufficient budgetary appropriation. If a government agency does not receive an appropriation sufficient to cover its contractual obligations with us, it may terminate a contract or defer or reduce our reimbursement. Previously appropriated funds could 16 Table of Contents also be reduced or eliminated through subsequent legislation. The loss or reduction of reimbursement under our contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We expect the federal and state governments to continue their efforts to contain growth in Medicaid expenditures, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We derive a substantial portion of our consolidated revenues from Medicaid reimbursement, primarily through our Residential and HomeCare businesses. Medicaid programs are administered by the applicable states and financed by both state and federal funds. Medicaid spending has increased rapidly in recent years, becoming an increasingly significant component of state budgets. This, combined with slower state revenue growth and other state budget demands, has led both the federal government and many states in which we operate, to institute measures aimed at controlling the growth of Medicaid spending (and in some instances reducing it). Historically, adjustments to reimbursement under Medicaid have had a significant effect on our revenues and results of operations. Recently enacted, pending and proposed legislation and administrative rulemaking at the federal and state levels could have similar effects on our business. Efforts to impose reduced reimbursement rates, reduced authorized services and more stringent cost controls by government and other payors are expected to continue for the foreseeable future and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, any delay or default by the federal or state governments in making Medicaid reimbursement payments, due to a failure to maintain credit ratings or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our revenues and operating profitability depend on our reimbursement rates and timely payment. Our revenues and operating profitability depend on our ability to maintain our existing reimbursement levels, to obtain periodic increases in reimbursement rates to meet higher costs and demand for more services, and to receive timely payment. If we do not receive or cannot negotiate increases in reimbursement rates at approximately the same time as our costs of providing services increase, or if states are not timely in their payments to us, our revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive industry, which can adversely affect our results. We compete with other for-profit companies, not-for-profit entities, and governmental agencies for contracts. Competitive factors may favor other providers, thereby reducing our success in obtaining contracts, which in turn would hinder our growth. Non-profit providers may be affiliated with advocacy groups, health organizations, or religious organizations that have substantial influence with legislators and government agencies. States may give preferences to non-profit organizations in awarding contracts. Non-profit providers also may have access to government subsidies, foundation grants, tax deductible contributions and other financial resources not available to us. Governmental agencies and non-profit providers may be subject to limits on liability that do not apply to us. In some markets, smaller local companies may have a better understanding of local conditions and may have more political and public influence than we do. The competitive advantages enjoyed by other providers may decrease our ability to procure contracts and limit our revenues. Increased competition may also result in pricing pressures, loss of or failure to gain market share or loss of clients or payors, any of which could harm our business. Our inability to maintain and renew our existing contracts and to obtain additional contracts would adversely affect our revenues. Each of our operating segments derives a substantial amount of revenue from contracts with government agencies. They also have contracts with non-governmental entities. Our contracts are generally in effect for a specific term, and our ability to renew or retain them depends on our operating performance and reputation, as well as other factors over which we have less or no control. In the past we have had contracts that were terminated or not renewed. We may not be successful in obtaining, renewing or retaining contracts to operate Job Corps or Workforce Services training centers. Our Job Corps contracts are re-bid, regardless of operating performance, at least every five years and our Workforce Services contracts are typically re-bid every 3-60 months. Government contracts of the operations we acquire may be subject to termination upon such an event, and our ability to retain them may be affected by the performance of prior operators. Changes in the market for services and contracts, including increasing competition, changes in the political environment, transition costs or costs to implement 17 Table of Contents awarded contracts, could adversely affect the timing and/or viability of future operating or development activities. Additionally, many of our contracts are subject to state or federal government procurement rules and procedures. Changes in procurement policies that may be adopted by one or more of these agencies could also adversely affect our ability to obtain and retain these contracts. These contracts may not be renewed. Our operations may subject us to substantial litigation. Our management of residential, homecare, training, educational and support programs for our clients has exposed and will continue to expose us to potential claims or litigation, including multi-party claims and class actions, by our clients, employees or other individuals for wrongful death, personal injury or other damages resulting from contact with our programs, personnel or other clients. Regulatory agencies have initiated and may in the future initiate administrative proceedings alleging violations of statutes and regulations arising from our programs and have imposed monetary penalties or other sanctions on us. We have been and in the future may be required to pay amounts of money to respond to regulatory investigations or, if we do not prevail, in damages or penalties arising from these legal proceedings. We also are subject to potential lawsuits under the False Claims Act or other federal and state whistleblower statutes designed to combat fraud and abuse in the human services industry. These lawsuits can involve significant monetary awards to private plaintiffs who successfully bring these suits as well as to the government. We are also subject to potential actions and substantial penalties under the False Claims Act brought by the Department of Justice. Finally, we are also subject to employee-related claims including wrongful discharge or discrimination, a violation of equal employment law, the Fair Labor Standards Act or state wage and hour laws, intentional tort claims and workers compensation claims. Some awards of damages or penalties may not be covered by any insurance. If our third-party insurance coverage and self-insurance reserves are not adequate to cover these claims, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. Even if we are successful in our defense, civil lawsuits or regulatory proceedings could also irreparably damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on us in the future. An unfavorable jury verdict could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. A jury returned a verdict of approximately $53.9 million in damages against us in November 2009, consisting of approximately $4.7 million in compensatory damages and $49.2 million in punitive damages. The judgment was subsequently reduced by the trial court judge to $15.5 million, consisting of approximately $10.8 million in punitive damages and $4.7 million in compensatory damages. We, as well as the plaintiffs, are appealing and we will continue to defend this matter vigorously. Although we have made provisions in our consolidated financial statements for this self-insured matter, the amount of our legal reserve is less than the amount of the damages awarded, plus accrued interest. If our appeal to obtain a new trial or to reduce the amount of the damages is unsuccessful, it would reduce our capital resources available to fund acquisitions and other operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not realize the anticipated benefit of any future acquisitions and we may experience difficulties in integrating these acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to make selective acquisitions. Additionally, we also assess opportunities to maximize shareholder value and seek diversification through investments with other business partners. We may need additional funds to continue to take advantage of acquisition opportunities, and financing may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Growing our business through acquisitions involves risks because with any acquisition there is the possibility that: · we may be unable to maintain and renew the contracts of the acquired business, which if significant to that business, may require us to review alternatives such as divesting, selling or scaling back that particular business; · unforeseen difficulties may arise when integrating the acquired operations, including information systems and accounting controls; · operating efficiencies, synergies, economies of scale and cost reductions may not be achieved as expected; · the business we acquire may not continue to generate income at the same historical levels on which we based our acquisition decision; · management may be distracted from overseeing existing operations by the need to integrate the acquired business; 18 Table of Contents · we may acquire or assume unexpected liabilities, encumbered assets or contracts, or there may be other unanticipated costs; · we may fail to retain and assimilate key employees of the acquired business; · we may finance the acquisition by additional debt and may become highly leveraged; and · the culture of the acquired business may not match well with our culture. As a result of these risks, our future acquisitions may not be successful, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance coverage and self-insurance reserves may not cover future claims. Workers’ compensation, employee health, general/professional and auto liability insurance claims and premiums represent significant costs to us. Because we self-insure for a portion of these risks, our insurance expense depends on claims experience, our ability to control our claims experience, and in the case of workers’ compensation and employee health, rising healthcare costs in general. Unanticipated additional insurance costs could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. As well, changes in the market for insurance may affect our ability to obtain insurance coverage at reasonable rates. Changes in our annual insurance costs and self-insured retention limits and excess coverage availability depend in large part on the insurance market. We utilize historical data to estimate our reserves for our insurance programs. Since July 1, 2005, we have had excess general and professional liability insurance coverages. Prior to July 1, 2005, we were fully self-insured for general and professional liability claims. If losses on asserted claims exceed the current insurance coverage and accrued reserves, our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to meet obligations under our indebtedness could be adversely affected. Our industry is subject to substantial government regulation and if we fail to comply with those regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. The human services industry, including our company, is required to comply with extensive and complex laws and regulations at each foreign country level and domestically at the federal, state and local government levels relating to, among other things: · licensure and certification; · adequacy and quality of health care services and employment services; · qualifications of health care and support personnel; · confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with medical or other personal records and claims processing; · relationships with referral sources; · operating policies and procedures; · addition of programs and services; and · billing for services. Many of these laws and regulations are expansive, and we do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of them. In the future, changing interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our programs, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to various sanctions, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses or contracts to operate one or more of our homes or programs) and exclusion of one or more of our homes or programs from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. Similar risks would apply in each foreign country where we do business. In the past we have had some of our licenses suspended or terminated and/or one or more of our programs excluded. If allegations of noncompliance were to arise in the future in respect of a significant subsidiary or in respect of ResCare that might jeopardize its participation in Medicare or Medicaid, an adverse outcome could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or liquidity. 19 Table of Contents Both federal and state government agencies have heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of health care companies. These investigations relate to a wide variety of topics, including: · billing practices; · quality of care; · financial relationships with referral sources; and · medical necessity of services provided. Like other participants in the human services industry, we receive requests and demands for information from government agencies in connection with the regulatory or investigational authority. Such requests can include subpoenas, civil investigative demands, demand letters or search warrants for documents to assist the government in audits or investigations. In addition, under the False Claims Act, private parties have the right to bring “qui tam” whistleblower lawsuits against companies that submit false claims for payments to the government. A number of states and cities have adopted similar whistleblower and false claims provisions. We are required to comply with laws governing the transmission, privacy and security of health information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and Health Information Technology and Clinical Health Act of 2009 (HITECH) require us to comply with standards for privacy and security of health information, including the exchange of health information within our company and with third parties, such as payors, business associates and patients. HIPAA and HITECH also require us to comply with standards for transmission of health information in common health care transactions. HIPAA and HITECH requirements include standards for: · claims information, plan eligibility, payment information and the use of electronic signatures; · unique identifiers for providers, employers, health plans and individuals; · protecting the privacy of health information; · maintaining the security of health information; and · HIPAA enforcement. If we fail to comply with these standards, we could be subject to criminal penalties and civil sanctions, including the significantly expanded penalties enacted under HITECH. We are required to comply with laws governing Medicaid services. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (DRA) requires our operations to comply with Medicaid billing requirements. The DRA also mandated changes to our compliance program. While we believe that our operations are in compliance, the added scrutiny resulting from the DRA could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. We are subject to the Payment Error Rate Measurement (PERM) program implemented to measure improper payments in the Medicaid program and the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). If PERM audits require us to repay a material amount to states as a result of payment errors, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Increases in regulatory oversight can result in higher operating costs. Although we believe we are operating in material compliance with established laws and regulations, federal and state regulatory agencies often have broad powers to mandate the types and levels of services we provide to individuals without providing appropriate funding. Future increased regulatory oversight could result in higher operating costs, including labor, consulting and maintenance expenditures, and historical losses. Media coverage critical of us or our industry may harm our results. Media coverage of the industry, including operators of programs for individuals with intellectual and other developmental disabilities, has, from time to time, included reports critical of the current trend toward privatization and of the operation of 20 Table of Contents certain of these programs. Adverse media coverage about providers of these services in general, and us in particular, could lead to increased regulatory scrutiny in some areas, and could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability by, among other things, adversely affecting our ability to obtain or retain contracts, discouraging government agencies from privatizing programs, increasing regulation and resulting compliance costs, or discouraging clients from using our services. Our program expenses may fluctuate. Our program expenses may also fluctuate from period to period, due in large part to changes in labor costs, insurance and energy costs. Labor costs are affected by a number of factors, including the availability of qualified personnel, effective management of our programs, changes in service models, state budgetary pressures, severity of weather and other natural disasters. Our annual insurance costs and self-insured retention limits can rise due to developments in the insurance market or our claims history. Significant fluctuations in our program expenses may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. Our revenues and net income may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, in part because annual Medicaid rate adjustments may be announced by the various states at different times of the year and are usually retroactive to the beginning of the particular state’s fiscal reporting period. Generally, future adjustments in reimbursement rates in most states will consist primarily of cost-of-living adjustments, adjustments based upon reported historical costs of operations, or other negotiated changes in rates. However, many states in which we operate are experiencing budgetary pressures and certain of these states, from time to time, have initiated service reductions, or rate freezes and/or across the board rate reductions. Some reimbursement rate increases must be paid to our direct care staff in the form of wage pass-throughs. Additionally, some states have revised their rate-setting methodologies, from time to time, which has resulted in rate decreases as well as rate increases. If downsizing, privatization and consolidation in our industry do not continue, our business may not continue to grow. The maintenance and expansion of our operations depend on the continuation of trends toward downsizing, privatization and consolidation, and our ability to tailor our services to meet the specific needs of the populations we serve. Our success in a changing operational environment is subject to a variety of political, economic, social and legal pressures, virtually all of which are beyond our control. Such pressures include a desire of governmental agencies to reduce costs and increase levels of services; federal, state and local budgetary constraints or shortfalls; political pressure from unions or other interest groups opposed to privatization or for-profit service providers; and actions brought by advocacy groups and the courts to change existing service delivery systems. Material changes resulting from these trends and pressures could adversely affect the demand for and reimbursement of our services and our operating flexibility, and ultimately our revenues and profitability. If we fail to establish and maintain appropriate relationships with officials of government agencies, we may not be able to successfully procure or retain government-sponsored contracts which could negatively impact our revenues. To facilitate our ability to procure or retain government-sponsored contracts, we rely in part on establishing and maintaining appropriate relationships with officials of various government agencies. These relationships enable us to maintain and renew existing contracts and obtain new contracts and referrals. These relationships also enable us to provide informal input and advice to the government agencies prior to the development of a “request for proposal” or program for privatization of social services and enhance our chances of procuring contracts with these payors. The effectiveness of our relationships may be reduced or eliminated when the holders of various government offices or staff positions change. We also may lose key personnel who have these relationships. Any failure to establish, maintain or manage relationships with government and agency personnel may hinder our ability to procure or retain government-sponsored contracts. Events that harm our reputation with governmental agencies and advocacy groups could reduce our revenues and operating results. Our success in obtaining new contracts and renewals of our existing contracts depends upon maintaining our reputation as a quality service provider among governmental authorities, advocacy groups for individuals with developmental disabilities and their families, and the public. We also rely on government entities to refer clients to our programs. Negative publicity, changes in public perception, the actions of clients under our care or investigations with respect to our industry, operations or policies could increase government scrutiny, increase compliance costs, hinder our ability to obtain or retain contracts, reduce 21 Table of Contents referrals, discourage privatization of programs, and discourage clients from using our services. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. A loss of our status as a licensed service provider in any jurisdiction could result in the termination of existing services and our inability to market our services in that jurisdiction. We operate in numerous jurisdictions and are required to maintain licenses and certifications in order to conduct our operations in each of them. Each state and county has its own regulations, which can be complicated, and each of our service lines can be regulated differently within a particular jurisdiction. As a result, maintaining the necessary licenses and certifications to conduct our operations can be cumbersome. Our licenses and certifications could be suspended, revoked or terminated for a number of reasons, including: the failure by some of our programs or employees to properly care for clients; the failure to submit proper documentation to the government agency, including documentation supporting reimbursements for costs; the failure by our programs to abide by the applicable regulations relating to the provisions of human services; or the failure of our programs to abide by the applicable building, health and safety codes and ordinances. We have had some of our licenses or certifications suspended or terminated in the past. If we lose our status as a licensed provider of human services in any jurisdiction or any other required certification, we would be unable to market our services in that jurisdiction, and the contracts under which we provide services in that jurisdiction could be subject to termination. Moreover, such an event could constitute a violation of provisions of contracts in other jurisdictions, resulting in other contract terminations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. Expenses incurred and fees earned under government contracts are subject to scrutiny. We derive substantially all of our revenues from federal, state and local government agencies. As a result of our participation in these government funded programs, we are often subject to governmental reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. As a result of these reviews, audits and investigations, our government payors may be entitled to, in their discretion: · terminate or modify our existing contracts; · suspend or prevent us from receiving new contracts or extending existing contracts because of violations or suspected violations of procurement laws or regulations; · impose fines, penalties or other sanctions on us; · reduce the amount we are paid under our existing contracts; · require us to refund amounts we have previously been paid; and/or · subject us to exclusion from participation in Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. In some states, we operate on cost reimbursement contracts in which revenues are recognized at the time costs are incurred and services are rendered. These contracts provide reimbursement for direct program costs related to operations, allowable indirect costs for general and administrative costs, plus a predetermined management fee that normally includes both fixed and performance-based elements. In these states, payors audit our historical costs on a regular basis, and if it is determined that we do not have enough costs to justify our rates, our rates may be reduced, or we may be required to retroactively return fees paid to us. We cannot be assured that our rates will be maintained, or that we will be able to keep all payments made to us until an audit of the relevant period is complete. Under certain employment training contracts, we are required to maintain certain performance measures and if those measures are not met, we may be subject to financial penalties. Further, certain employment training contracts require us to administer payments for childcare and transportation on behalf of our participants, for which we are reimbursed by the customer. These costs are subject to governmental reviews and audits to verify our compliance with the contracts. Our revenue growth has been related to increases in the number of individuals served in each of our operating segments. Our historical growth in revenues has been directly related to increases in the number of individuals served in each of our operating segments. This growth has depended largely upon development-driven activities, including the acquisitions of other businesses or programs, the acquisition of management contract rights to operate programs, the awarding of contracts to open 22 Table of Contents new programs, start new operations or branches or to assume management of programs previously operated by governmental agencies or other organizations, and the extension or renewal of contracts previously awarded to us. Our future revenues will depend primarily upon our ability to maintain, expand and renew existing service contracts and leases, and to a lesser extent upon our ability to obtain additional contracts to provide services to the special needs populations we serve, through awards in response to requests for proposals for new programs, in connection with programs being privatized by governmental agencies, or by selected acquisitions. We depend upon the continued services of key members of our senior management team, without whom our business operations would be significantly disrupted. Our success depends, in part, on the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key employees. Our management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. If we lose or suffer an extended interruption in the service of one or more of our senior officers, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Moreover, the market for qualified individuals is highly competitive and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to replace or succeed members of our senior management or other key employees, should the need arise. We face substantial competition in attracting and retaining experienced personnel, and we may be unable to grow our business if we cannot attract and retain qualified employees. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and experienced social service professionals who possess the skills and experience necessary to deliver high quality services to our clients. These employees are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. Contractual requirements and client needs determine the number, education and experience levels of social service professionals we hire. Our ability to attract and retain employees with the requisite experience and skills depends on several factors including, but not limited to, our ability to offer competitive wages, benefits and professional growth opportunities. The inability to attract and retain experienced personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Much of our revenue is derived from state and local government and government procedures, which can be complex. Government reimbursement, community home credentialing and client Medicaid and Medicare eligibility and service authorization procedures are often complicated and burdensome, and delays can result from, among other reasons, difficulties in timely securing documentation and coordinating necessary eligibility paperwork between agencies. These reimbursement and procedural issues occasionally cause us to have to resubmit claims several times before payment is remitted and are primarily responsible for our aged receivables. Changes in the manner in which state agencies interpret program policies and procedures, and review and audit billings and costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to meet obligations under our indebtedness. If we cannot maintain effective controls and procedures that govern our billing and collections processes, such as maintenance of required documentation to support the services rendered, then our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness could be adversely affected. The collection of accounts receivable is a significant management challenge and requires continual focus. The limitations of some state information systems and procedures, such as the ability to obtain timely documentation or disperse funds electronically, may limit the benefits we derive from our automated billing and collection system. We must maintain effective controls and procedures for managing our billing and collection activities, which include having required documentation as necessary if we are to collect our accounts receivable on a timely basis. An inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. Our ability to collect accounts receivable is also subject to developments at state payor agencies and other factors outside our control. Changes in reimbursement procedures by the states, including engaging new agents to manage the reimbursement function, may delay reimbursement payments and create backlogs. Paying aged receivables may have a lower priority for states experiencing budgetary pressures despite our meeting applicable billing requirements. Events that delay or prevent our collection of accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. 23 Table of Contents Our information systems are critical to our business and a failure of those systems could materially harm us. The performance of our information technology and systems is critical to our business operations. Our information systems are essential to a number of critical areas of our operations, including: · Accounting and financial reporting; · Billing and collecting accounts; · Coding and compliance; · Clinical systems, including census and incident reporting; and/or · Records and document storage; and monitoring quality of care and collecting data on quality and compliance measures. We depend on our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage a significant amount of information, and to provide our operations with efficient and effective accounting, census, incident reporting and scheduling systems. Our information systems require maintenance and upgrading to meet our needs, which could significantly increase our administrative expenses. Furthermore, any system failure that causes an interruption in service or availability of our critical systems could adversely affect operations or delay the collection of revenues. Even though we have implemented network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, cyber attacks and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. The occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data, or cessations in the availability of systems, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The interests of our controlling stockholders may conflict with the interests of the holders of the Notes. Following consummation of the Share Exchange in December 2010, the Onex Investors own 98% of the outstanding common stock of the holding company that owns all of the stock of ResCare. Accordingly, the Onex Investors can exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs and have the power to determine all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions such as amendments to our certificate of incorporation, mergers and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The Onex Investors could cause corporate actions to be taken that conflict with the interests of the holders of our outstanding notes. Onex Corporation controls the voting of the Onex Investors. Gerald W. Schwartz, the chairman, president and chief executive officer of Onex Corporation, owns shares representing a majority of the voting rights of the shares of Onex Corporation. Additionally, the Onex Investors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time in the future acquire controlling interests in businesses that complement or directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business. As a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Labor changes could reduce our margins and profitability and adversely affect the quality of our care. Our cost structure and ultimate operating profitability are directly related to our labor costs. Labor costs may be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including limited availability of qualified personnel in each geographic area, local competitive forces, the ineffective utilization of our labor force, changes in minimum wages or other direct personnel costs, strikes or work stoppages by employees represented by labor unions, and changes in client services models, such as the trends toward supported living and managed care. We may not be able to negotiate labor agreements on satisfactory terms with our existing or any future labor unions. If any of the employees covered by collective bargaining agreements were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, we could experience a disruption of our operations and/or higher ongoing labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The federal health care reform legislation could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In March 2010, the U.S. Congress passed and the President signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, which represent significant changes to the current U.S. health care system. The legislation contains a large number of health-related provisions to take effect over several years, including imposing new requirements on employer-sponsored health plans, which may increase the cost of providing such benefits, 24 Table of Contents modifying certain payment systems, reducing Medicare reimbursement rates for home health care services we provide to our clients and a number of other provisions that could reasonably be expected to impact our business. Many of the provisions of the legislation do not take effect for an extended period of time. Further revisions to this legislation could result from its implementation. We are unable to predict at this time all of the ramifications the enacted laws, or subsequent changes, may have on our business. This legislation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. If the fair values of our reporting units decline, we may have to record a non-cash charge to earnings from impairment of our intangible assets. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. For our October 1, 2011 annual impairment test, all reporting units passed Step One. The Youth Services-Residential Youth and Workforce Services reporting units only passed Step One with a fair value that exceeded its carrying value by a 13 and 12 percent margin, respectively. The Youth Services-Residential Youth and Workforce Services reporting units had allocated goodwill balances of $9.6 million and $32.7 million, respectively, as of October 1, 2011. A 100 basis point increase in the discount rate for these two reporting units would decrease the fair value in excess of carrying value to a 5 percent margin for each reporting unit. A 100 basis point decrease in the long-term growth rate for these two reporting units would decrease the fair value in excess of carrying value to a 9 percent margin for each reporting unit. In February 2012, we were informed by the New York City Human Resources Administration that the Wellness, Comprehensive Assessment, Rehabilitation and Employment (WeCARE) contract had been awarded to another operator through the competitive bid process. We anticipate that our performance will continue under a contract extension until December 2012. Annual revenues for this contract are $28 million. We have filed a formal protest and are exploring all available options to challenge the contract award and the bid process. We believe it is at least reasonably possible that we will be unsuccessful in our efforts to retain this contract, which would indicate the potential for an impairment of the Workforce Services goodwill exists and require us to perform an impairment assessment in the near term. We estimate that this could result in an impairment charge up to $5 million for the Workforce Services reporting unit in 2012. We may be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets is determined, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Risks related to the Notes and our indebtedness Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business and could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the Notes. We have a substantial amount of debt, which requires significant interest and principal payments. Our substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences to the holders of the Notes, including the following: · making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the Notes and our other debt; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; · requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of to other purposes; · increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · limiting our financial flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete; · placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors; · having a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with the covenants in the indenture governing the Notes or in the instruments governing our other debt; and · increasing our cost of borrowing. The revolving senior credit facility component of our senior secured credit facilities is expected to be a significant source of liquidity for our business and is scheduled to mature on December 22, 2015. The failure to extend or renew this facility could have a significant effect on our ability to invest sufficiently in our programs, fund day-to-day operations, or pursue strategic opportunities. Subject to the limits contained in the indenture governing the Notes and our other debt instruments, we may be able to incur additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we incur additional debt, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. We may not be able to generate a sufficient amount of cash flow to meet our debt service obligations, including the Notes. Our ability to pay principal and interest or to refinance our obligations with respect to the Notes and our other debt, including our senior secured credit facilities, will depend on, among other things: · our future financial and operating performance, which will be subject to prevailing economic and political conditions and financial, competitive, business and other factors, including the availability of financing in the banking and capital markets as well as the other risks described herein, many of which are beyond our control; and 25 Table of Contents · the future availability of borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities, which depends on, among other things, our complying with the covenants in our senior secured credit facilities. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our new senior secured credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs, including the payment of principal and interest on the Notes. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, including the Notes, and our other commitments, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to reduce or delay scheduled expansions and capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs, we will need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, including the Notes, which could cause us to default on our debt obligations and impair our liquidity. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants which could further restrict our business operations. If we are required to dispose of material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt to meet our debt service and other obligations, we cannot provide assurance that we could take any of these actions on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that these actions would be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. In addition, the terms of our existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from implementing certain or any of these alternatives. Furthermore, the Onex Investors have no continuing obligation to provide us with debt or equity financing. If we cannot make scheduled principal and interest payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result: · our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable; and · we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. The indenture governing the Notes and the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. The indenture governing the Notes and the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities impose, and any future indebtedness of ours would likely impose, significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things: · incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; · pay distributions or dividends and repurchase our stock and make other restricted payments, including without limitation, certain restricted investments; · create or incur liens; · enter into agreements that restrict dividends from subsidiaries; · sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; · engage in transactions with affiliates; and · enter into mergers, consolidations or sales of substantially all of our assets. In addition, our senior secured credit facilities require us to maintain certain financial ratios. As a result of these covenants, we will be limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those ratios. An adverse development affecting our business could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants, alternative or additional sources of financing or reductions in expenditures. We cannot assure you that such waivers, amendments or alternative or additional financings could be obtained or, if obtained, would be on terms acceptable to us. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we will be limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include covenants that are more restrictive. We may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future. A failure to comply with the covenants contained in the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities or the indenture governing the Notes could result in an event of default under 26 Table of Contents either or both of those instruments, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Despite our current debt levels, we and our subsidiaries may incur substantially more debt. We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, in the future. Although the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the Notes contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness by us or our subsidiaries, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and any indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. For example, subject to certain conditions, we will have the right under our senior secured credit facilities to request up to $175.0 million of additional commitments in the form of revolver availability or term loans, although the lenders under our new senior secured credit facilities will not be under any obligation to provide any such additional commitments. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they face would be increased. The Notes are unsecured and effectively subordinated to all of our secured debt. The Notes and the related guarantees are not secured by any of our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries. The payment of our obligations under our senior secured credit facilities is secured by a security interest in substantially all of our assets and the assets of our domestic subsidiaries, including equipment, inventory and certain intangible assets, and a pledge of the capital stock of all of our domestic subsidiaries. If we become insolvent or are liquidated, or if payment under our new senior secured credit facilities or any other secured debt obligation that we may have from time to time is accelerated, our secured lenders would be entitled to exercise the remedies available to a secured lender under applicable law and would have a claim on those assets before the holders of the Notes. As a result, the Notes are effectively subordinated to our secured debt to the extent of the value of the assets securing such debt in the event of our bankruptcy or liquidation, and it is possible that there would be no assets remaining from which your claims could be satisfied or, if any assets remained, they might be insufficient to fully satisfy the claims of our Note holders. The Notes are structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and other liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries, and to the obligations of our domestic subsidiaries that do not guarantee the Notes. None of our existing or future foreign subsidiaries will guarantee the Notes or otherwise have any obligations to make payments in respect of the Notes, which are our direct, senior unsecured obligations. As a result, claims of holders of the Notes are structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and other liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries, and to the obligations of any of our domestic subsidiaries that do not guarantee the Notes. In the event of any bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution or similar proceeding involving one of our non-guarantor subsidiaries, any of our rights or the rights of the holders of the Notes to participate in the assets of that subsidiary would be structurally subordinated to the claims of creditors of that subsidiary (including any trade creditors, debt holders, secured creditors, taxing authorities and guarantee holders), and following payment by that subsidiary of its liabilities, the subsidiary may not have sufficient assets remaining to make payments to us as a shareholder or otherwise. In addition, if we caused a non-guarantor subsidiary to pay a dividend to enable us to make payments in respect of the Notes and such a transfer were deemed a fraudulent transfer or an unlawful distribution, the holders of the Notes could be required to return the payment to (or for the benefit of) the creditors of our non-guarantor subsidiaries. Our non-guarantor subsidiaries may, in the future, incur substantial additional liabilities, including indebtedness. Furthermore, we may, under certain circumstances, designate subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries, and any domestic subsidiary that is designated as unrestricted will not guarantee the Notes. Our ability to meet our obligations under our indebtedness depends in part on our earnings and cash flows and those of our subsidiaries and on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance or repay funds to us. We conduct a portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, certain of which have not guaranteed the Notes. Consequently, our ability to service our debt depends, in part, upon the earnings from the businesses conducted by our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts to us, whether by dividends, loans, advances or other payments. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other payments to us depends on their earnings, capital requirements and general financial conditions and is restricted by, among other things, applicable corporate and other laws and regulations as well as, in the future, agreements to which our subsidiaries may be a party. 27 Table of Contents We may not be able to repurchase the Notes upon a change of control. Upon a change of control as defined in the indenture governing the Notes, we will be required to make an offer to repurchase all outstanding Notes at 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, unless we have previously given notice of our intention to exercise our right to redeem the Notes or unless such obligation is suspended. We may not have sufficient financial resources to purchase all of the Notes that are tendered upon a change of control offer or, if then permitted under the indenture governing the Notes, to redeem the Notes. A failure to make the applicable change of control offer or to pay the applicable change of control purchase price when due would result in a default under the indenture governing the Notes. The occurrence of a change of control would also constitute an event of default under our senior secured credit facilities and may constitute an event of default under the terms of our future indebtedness, or, if the lenders accelerate the debt under our senior secured credit facilities or other indebtedness, under the indenture governing the Notes. The terms of the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities limit, and the terms of our future indebtedness may limit, our right to purchase or redeem the Notes. If any purchase or redemption of the Notes is prohibited, we may seek to obtain waivers from the required lenders under our senior secured credit facilities or holders of such other indebtedness to permit the required repurchase or redemption of the Notes, but the required lenders or holders of such indebtedness have no obligation to grant, and may refuse, such a waiver. Holders of the Notes may not be able to determine when a change of control giving rise to their right to have the Notes repurchased has occurred following a sale of “substantially all” of our assets. The definition of “change of control” in the indenture governing the Notes includes a phrase relating to the sale of “all or substantially all” of our assets. There is no precise established definition of the phrase “substantially all” under applicable law. Accordingly, it may be unclear as to whether a change of control has occurred and the ability of a holder of Notes to require us to repurchase its Notes as a result of a sale of less than all our assets to another person may be uncertain. Certain significant restructuring transactions may not constitute a change of control under the indenture governing the Notes, in which case we would not be obligated to offer to repurchase the Notes. Under the indenture governing the Notes, upon the occurrence of a change of control, we will be required to make an offer to repurchase all outstanding Notes at 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, unless we have previously given notice of our intention to exercise our right to redeem the Notes or unless such obligation is suspended. However, the change of control provisions will not afford protection to holders of Notes in the event of a highly leveraged transaction that could adversely affect the Notes. For example, we could, in the future, enter into certain transactions, including acquisitions, refinancing or other recapitalizations, that would not constitute a change of control under the indenture governing the Notes, but that could increase the amount of indebtedness outstanding at such time or otherwise affect our capital structure or credit ratings, and the holders would not have the right to require us to repurchase the Notes. If we default on our obligations to pay our other indebtedness, we may not be able to make payments on the Notes. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with the covenants, financial tests and ratios required by our senior secured credit facilities or any future financing agreements into which we may enter. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, or interest on our senior secured credit facilities or any future financing arrangements, or if we otherwise fail to comply with any of the covenants in such indebtedness and such failure is not waived by the required holders of such indebtedness, we would be in a default under those agreements. A default would permit lenders to cease to make further extensions of credit, accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements and foreclose upon any collateral securing that debt. In these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations, including our ability to repay our senior secured credit facilities and our obligations under the Notes. Furthermore, if our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to seek waivers from the required lenders under our senior secured credit facilities to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under our senior secured credit facilities and attempt to seek waivers, we may not be able to obtain waivers from the required lenders thereunder. If this occurs, we would be in default under our senior secured credit facilities and the lenders could exercise their rights described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 28 Table of Contents An active trading market for the Notes may not develop, and the absence of an active trading market and other factors may adversely impact the price of the Notes. There is currently no public market for the Notes and an active or liquid trading market for the Notes may not develop or continue. To the extent that an active trading market does not develop, the liquidity and trading prices for the Notes may be adversely affected. The Notes may trade at a discount from their initial offering price, depending on prevailing interest rates, the market for similar securities, our performance and other factors. In addition, a downgrade of our credit ratings by any credit rating agencies could impact the price at which the Notes trade. Our credit ratings have been and continue to be subject to regular review. We have no plans to list the Notes on a securities exchange. The liquidity of, and trading market for, the Notes may also be adversely affected by, among other things: · changes in the overall market for securities similar to the Notes; · changes in our financial performance or prospects; · the prospects for companies in our industry generally; · the number of holders of the Notes; · the interest of securities dealers in making a market for the Notes; and · prevailing interest rates. Historically, the market for non-investment grade debt has been subject to disruptions that have caused substantial fluctuations in the price of securities that are similar to the Notes. Therefore, even if a trading market for the Notes develops, it may be subject to disruptions and price volatility. An adverse rating or withdrawal of any rating of the Notes may cause their trading price to fall, may increase our future borrowing costs and may reduce our access to capital. Ratings agencies also may lower or withdraw ratings on the Notes in the future. If rating agencies reduce or withdraw their ratings, or indicate that they may reduce or withdraw their ratings in the future, the trading price of the Notes could significantly decline. Credit ratings are not recommendations to purchase, hold or sell the Notes. Additionally, credit ratings may not reflect the potential effect of risks relating to the structure of the Notes. Furthermore, any future lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to the Notes likely would make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing. If any credit rating assigned to the Notes is subsequently lowered or withdrawn for any reason, you may not be able to resell your Notes without a substantial discount. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 