Item 1A. Risk Factors The information contained in this report may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. See “FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS” (page 77) for specific important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements. The Company’s actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. Unpredictable catastrophic events could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We write insurance and reinsurance policies that cover catastrophic events. Our policies cover unpredictable natural and other disasters, such as hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, floods, fires and explosions. Our exposure to catastrophic windstorm damage in the Northeastern United States is the largest single natural risk to our business. We also have significant exposure to a major California earthquake and windstorm damage in Northern Europe, the United States Atlantic Coast (i.e., Delaware to Florida) and the United States Gulf Coast region (i.e., Florida to Texas). In addition, we are exposed to losses from terrorist attacks, such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001. Claims from catastrophic events could reduce our earnings and cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and adversely affect our financial condition. Our ability to write new insurance and reinsurance policies could also be impacted as a result of corresponding reductions in our surplus levels. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Increases in the value of insured property, the effects of inflation and changes in cyclical weather patterns may increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. We manage our exposure to catastrophic losses by limiting the aggregate insured value of policies in geographic areas with exposure to catastrophic events and by estimating PMLs for many different catastrophe scenarios. To manage and analyze aggregate insured values and PML, we use a variety of tools and analyses, including catastrophe modeling software packages. Our estimates of PML are dependent on many variables, including the quality of data provided to us by ceding companies (in the case of our reinsurance operations), the demand surge increase utilized to model the event and the relationship of the actual wind, zone density, storm surge and flood characteristics to the modeled event. Accordingly, the losses we might incur from an actual catastrophe could be materially higher than our expectation of losses generated from modeled catastrophe scenarios. For example, in 2005, the models did not adequately predict the insured losses from hurricane Katrina for either the industry or White Mountains. We may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements. Additionally, we may be unable to collect all amounts due from our reinsurers under our existing reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements. We attempt to limit our risk of loss through reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements. Retrocessional arrangements refer to reinsurance purchased by a reinsurer to cover its own risks assumed from primary ceding companies. The availability and cost of reinsurance and retrocessional protection is subject to market conditions, which are outside of our control. As a result, we may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through these arrangements. We are not relieved of our obligation to our policyholders or ceding companies by purchasing reinsurance. Accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurance and retrocessions in the event that a reinsurer is unable to pay amounts owed to us as a result of a deterioration in its financial condition. A number of reinsurers in the industry experienced such a deterioration in the aftermath of the 2001 terrorist attacks and the active 2005 hurricane season. It is possible that one or more of our reinsurers will be significantly adversely affected by future significant loss events, causing them to be unable to pay amounts owed to us. For example, Olympus and Helicon provide a substantial amount of reinsurance protection to us. As of January 1, 2006, Olympus and Helicon had pro-forma capital of approximately $188 million and $145 million, respectively. We cannot guarantee that Olympus and/or Helicon will have sufficient capital to pay amounts owed to us resulting from one or more 34 future catastrophes. We also may be unable to recover amounts due under our reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements if our reinsurers choose to withhold payment due to a dispute or other factors beyond our control. Our loss reserves may be inadequate to cover our ultimate liability for losses and as a result our financial results could be adversely affected. We are required to maintain adequate reserves to cover our estimated ultimate liabilities for loss and loss adjustment expenses. These reserves are estimates based on actuarial and statistical projections of what we believe the settlement and administration of claims will cost based on facts and circumstances then known to us. Because of the uncertainties that surround estimating loss reserves, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate and actual claims and claim expenses paid might exceed our reserves. If our reserves are insufficient to cover our actual loss and loss adjustment expenses, we would have to strengthen our reserves and incur charges to our earnings. These charges could be material. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number and size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance contracts that are affected by the changes. For further discussion of our loss and loss adjustment reserves, including our asbestos and environmental reserves, see “Loss and Loss Adjustment Expenses” in "CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES" in Item 1. We may not maintain favorable financial strength or creditworthiness ratings which could adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Third party rating agencies assess and rate the financial strength of insurers and reinsurers. Financial strength ratings are used by insurers and reinsurers and insurance and reinsurance intermediaries as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers and reinsurers. The financial strength ratings assigned by rating agencies to insurance or reinsurance companies are based upon factors relevant to policyholders and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Financial strength ratings by rating agencies are not ratings of securities or recommendations to buy, hold, or sell any security and may be withdrawn or revised at any time at the discretion of the assigning agency. Rating agencies also evaluate the general creditworthiness of debt securities issued by companies. Creditworthiness ratings are used by existing or potential investors to assess the likelihood of repayment on a particular debt issue. Some of the criteria used by rating agencies to assign financial strength and creditworthiness ratings relate to general economic conditions and other circumstances outside the rated company’s control. Rating agencies periodically evaluate us to confirm that we continue to meet the criteria of the ratings previously assigned to us. See “RATINGS” in Item 1 for a summary of financial strength ratings on our significant subsidiaries and creditworthiness ratings on our Senior Notes. A downgrade or withdrawal of our financial strength ratings could severely limit or prevent us from writing any new insurance or reinsurance policies. A downgrade or withdrawal of our creditworthiness ratings could severely limit our ability to raise new debt or could make new debt more costly and/or have more restrictive conditions. Our debt, preferred stock and related service obligations could adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $781 million face value of indebtedness and $320 million face value of mandatorily redeemable preferred stock outstanding. Our ability to meet our debt, preferred stock and related service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulation. We cannot be certain that our earnings will be sufficient to allow us to pay the principal and interest on our debt, the redemption value and dividends on our preferred stock and meet our other obligations. If we do not have enough cash, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt and preferred stock, sell assets, borrow more cash or sell equity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 35 We could incur additional indebtedness and issue additional preferred stock in the future. To the extent new debt, new preferred stock and other obligations are added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt and preferred stock levels, the risks described in the previous paragraph would increase. Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or losses which could adversely affect our results. Investment returns are an important part of our growth in tangible book value, and fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could impair our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. A significant period of time normally elapses between the receipt of insurance premiums and the disbursement of insurance claims. During this time, we generate investment income, consisting primarily of interest earned on fixed maturity investments and dividends earned on equity securities, by investing our capital as well as insurance premiums allocated to support unpaid loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. We also recognize unrealized investment gains and losses on the securities we hold in our investment portfolio and we generate investment gains and losses from sales of securities from our investment portfolio. The investment income and fair market value of our investment portfolio are affected by general economic and market conditions, including fluctuations in interest rates and volatility in the stock market. These conditions are outside of our control and could adversely affect the value of our investments and our results. Our investment portfolio consists of fixed maturity investments, common equity securities, warrants to acquire common equity securities and other investments, principally limited partnership and private hedge fund securities. Our investment selections are designed to maximize after-tax total risk-adjusted return over the long term; however, investing entails substantial risks. There can be no assurance that we will achieve our investment objectives, and our investment performance may vary substantially over time. The property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industry is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively in the future. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive and has, from time to time, experienced severe price competition in the past. OneBeacon competes with numerous regional and national insurance companies, including The St. Paul Travelers Companies, Zurich Insurance Group, CNA Financial, the Hartford Financial Services Group, Hanover Insurance Group, W.R. Berkley Corporation, The Chubb Corporation, Progressive Insurance, Allstate Insurance, Liberty Mutual, The Robert Plan Corporation, American International Group and the regional Farm Bureaus. White Mountains Re competes with numerous reinsurance companies throughout the world, including Munich Re, Swiss Re, XL Re, Transatlantic Re, Hannover Re, Everest Re, Partner Re and Lloyds. Some of these competitors have greater financial resources than we do and have established long-term and continuing business relationships throughout the insurance and reinsurance industries, which can be a significant competitive advantage. In addition, substantial new capital and competitors have entered the reinsurance market in recent months, and we expect to face further competition in the future. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, our businesses may be adversely affected and we may not be able to compete effectively in the future. We may suffer losses from unfavorable outcomes from litigation and other legal proceedings White Mountains, like the insurance and reinsurance industries in general, in the ordinary course of its business is subject to litigation and other legal proceedings, the outcomes of which are uncertain. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more legal matters, our ultimate liability may be in excess of amounts we have currently reserved for and such additional amounts may be material to our results of operations and financial condition. For a description of our current non-ordinary course material legal proceedings, see "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." Regulation may restrict our ability to operate. The insurance and reinsurance industries are subject to extensive regulation under U.S., state and foreign laws. Governmental agencies have broad administrative power to regulate many aspects of the insurance business, which include premium rates, marketing practices, advertising, policy forms and capital adequacy. These agencies are concerned primarily with the protection of policyholders rather than shareholders. Insurance laws and regulations impose restrictions on the amount and type of investments, prescribe solvency standards that must be met and maintained and require the maintenance of reserves. In addition, state insurance holding company statutes generally require prior approval of changes of control of an insurer or its holding company. 36 Recently, the insurance industry has been heavily scrutinized by various regulatory bodies, including State Attorneys General and state insurance departments, for alleged illegal conduct surrounding a number of topics, including producer compensation arrangements and the sale and use of finite reinsurance. During 2004 and 2005, OneBeacon received subpoenas from the Attorneys General of Massachusetts, New York and Connecticut requesting documents and seeking information relating to the conduct of business between insurance brokers and OneBeacon. Some of our other subsidiaries have also received information requests from various state insurance departments regarding producer compensation arrangements. We have cooperated with all of these subpoenas and information requests. We believe these requests to be part of the industry-wide investigation regarding industry sales practices. In recent years we have successfully created shareholder value through acquisitions and dispositions of insurance and reinsurance entities. We may not be able to continue to create shareholder value through such transactions in the future. In the past several years, we have completed numerous acquisitions and dispositions of insurance and reinsurance entities, many of which have contributed significantly to our growth in tangible book value. Failure to identify and complete future acquisition and disposition opportunities could limit our ability to achieve our target returns. Even if we were to identify and complete future acquisition opportunities, there is no assurance that such acquisitions will ultimately achieve their anticipated benefits. Changes in tax laws may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the tax laws in the jurisdictions that we operate could adversely affect our results. In particular, from time to time legislation has been discussed or proposed in the United States that would tax us or our shareholders differently than other foreign corporations or their shareholders. In addition, if U.S. taxing authorities determined that our non-U.S. operations were subject to taxation in the United States, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have significant foreign operations that expose us to certain additional risks, including foreign currency risks and political risk. White Mountains Re, in particular Sirius International, conducts a significant portion of its business outside of the United States. As a result, a substantial portion of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and are therefore subject to foreign currency risk. Our foreign currency risk cannot be eliminated entirely and significant changes in foreign exchange rates may adversely affect our financial condition or our results of operations. Our foreign operations are also subject to legal, political and operational risks that may be greater than those present in the United States. As a result, our operations at these foreign locations could be temporarily or permanently disrupted. We depend on our key personnel to manage our business effectively and they may be difficult to replace. Our performance substantially depends on the efforts and abilities of our management team and other executive officers and key employees. Furthermore, much of our competitive advantage is based on the expertise, experience and know-how of our key management personnel. We do not have fixed term employment agreements with any of our key employees and the loss of one or more of these key employees could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success also depends on the ability to hire and retain additional personnel. Difficulty in hiring or retaining personnel could adversely affect our future operating performance. 37 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the date of this report, the Company had no unresolved written comments from the Commission staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 