Item 1A. Risk Factors The information contained in this report may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. See “FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS” (page 90) for specific important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements. The Company’s actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or losses which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Adverse changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity markets, debt markets or market volatility could result in significant losses to the fair value of our investment portfolio and could generate significant losses in our life reinsurance business. Our investment portfolio consists of fixed maturity securities, convertible fixed maturity securities, short-term investments, common equity securities and other long-term investments such as hedge funds and private equities. We invest to maximize long-term after-tax total risk-adjusted return subject to our investment guidelines and various regulatory restrictions. However, investing entails substantial risks. We cannot assure you that we will achieve our investment objectives, and our investment performance may vary substantially over time. Investment returns are an important part of our strategy to grow adjusted book value per share, and fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could impair our results of operations and financial condition. Investments generate both income, consisting primarily of interest earned on fixed maturity investments and dividends earned on equity securities, and realized and unrealized investment gains on securities. Both the investment income we generate and the fair market value of our investment portfolio are affected by general economic and market conditions, including fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, debt market levels, equity market levels and market volatility. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we attempt to manage the risks of changes in interest rates, we may not be able to do so. In particular, a significant increase in interest rates could result in significant losses in the fair value of our investment portfolio and, consequently, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to changes in equity markets. Because a portion of our investment portfolio is invested in securities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar, the value of our portfolio is sensitive to changes in foreign currency rates. We are also exposed to changes in the volatility levels of various investment markets. The underlying conditions are outside of our control and could adversely affect the value of our investments and our results of operations and financial condition. Our life reinsurance business has reinsured the risk related to a shortfall between the account value and the guaranteed value that must be paid in respect of certain Japanese variable annuity contracts. We use derivative instruments to mitigate the market risks associated with changes in the fair value of these guarantees. These derivative instruments include put options, interest rate swaps, total return swaps and futures contracts on major equity indices, currency pairs and government bonds. However, these derivatives may not fully mitigate our exposure to the changes in the fair value of the guarantees. For example, WM Life Re reported significant losses in 2008 because the increase in the fair value of its liabilities exceeded the increase in the fair value of the related derivative instruments. The fair value of our life reinsurance contracts and the related derivative instruments is significantly affected by general economic and market conditions such as equity market returns and volatility, interest rate fluctuations and foreign currency exchange rates. These conditions are outside of our control and could generate significant losses that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 28 Table of Contents Unpredictable catastrophic events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We write insurance and reinsurance policies that cover losses from catastrophic events. Our policies cover unpredictable natural and other disasters, such as hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, floods, fires and explosions. In recent years, the frequency of major catastrophes has increased. We have significant exposure to windstorm damage in the Northeast United States, a major earthquake or series of earthquakes in California, the Midwestern United States or Japan and windstorm damage in Northern Europe, the United States Atlantic Coast (i.e., Massachusetts to Florida) and the United States Gulf Coast region (i.e., Florida to Texas). In addition, we are exposed to losses from terrorist attacks, such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Increases in the value of insured property, the effects of inflation and changes in cyclical weather patterns may increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. Claims from catastrophic events could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to write new insurance and reinsurance policies could also be impacted as a result of corresponding reductions in our capital levels. We manage our exposure to catastrophic losses by limiting the aggregate insured value of policies in geographic areas with exposure to catastrophic events by estimating a PML for many different catastrophe scenarios and by buying reinsurance. In addition, to better manage the aggregate exposure to very large catastrophic events in our reinsurance business, Sirius Group monitors the largest NFI that we would suffer in the worst aggregate loss year as calculated by third-party models (i.e., the 10,000-year global annual aggregate PML). The calculation of the NFI begins with the modeled 10,000-year global annual aggregate PML and takes account of estimated reinstatement premiums, reinsurance recoverables (net of estimated uncollectible balances) and tax benefits. This amount is deducted from Sirius Group’s planned legal entity comprehensive income for the year (before any planned losses for catastrophe events) to arrive at the NFI. To manage and analyze aggregate insured values, PML and NFI, we use a variety of tools, including catastrophe modeling software packages. Our estimates of PML and NFI are dependent on many variables, including assumptions about the demand surge and storm surge, loss adjustment expenses, insurance-to-value and storm intensity in the aftermath of weather- related catastrophes utilized to model the event, the relationship of the actual event to the modeled event and the quality of data provided to us by ceding companies (in the case of our reinsurance operations). Accordingly, if our assumptions about the variables are incorrect, the losses we might incur from an actual catastrophe could be materially higher than our expectation of losses generated from modeled catastrophe scenarios and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may not maintain favorable financial strength or creditworthiness ratings which could adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Third-party rating agencies assess and rate the financial strength, including claims-paying ability, of insurers and reinsurers. These ratings are based upon criteria established by the rating agencies and are subject to revision at any time at the sole discretion of the agencies. Some of the criteria relate to general economic conditions and other circumstances outside the rated company’s control. These financial strength ratings are used by policyholders, agents and brokers as an important means of assessing the suitability of insurers and reinsurers as business counterparties and have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies. These financial strength ratings do not refer to our ability to meet non-insurance obligations and are not a recommendation to purchase or discontinue any policy or contract issued by us or to buy, hold or sell our securities. The maintenance of an “A-” or better financial strength rating from A.M. Best and/or Standard & Poor’s is particularly important to our ability to write new or renewal business in most markets. General creditworthiness ratings are used by existing or potential investors to assess the likelihood of repayment on a particular debt issue. The maintenance of an investment grade creditworthiness rating (e.g., “BBB-” or better from Standard & Poor’s and “Baa3” or better from Moody’s) is particularly important to our ability to raise new debt with acceptable terms. We believe that strong creditworthiness ratings are important factors that provide better financial flexibility when issuing new debt or restructuring existing debt. Rating agencies periodically evaluate us to confirm that we continue to meet the criteria of the ratings previously assigned to us. See “RATINGS” on page 27 for a summary of financial strength ratings on our significant insurance and reinsurance operating subsidiaries. A downgrade, withdrawal or negative watch/outlook of our financial strength ratings could severely limit or prevent our insurance and reinsurance operating subsidiaries from writing new insurance or reinsurance policies or renewing existing policies, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A downgrade, withdrawal or negative watch/outlook of our creditworthiness ratings could limit our ability to raise new debt or could make new debt more costly and/or have more restrictive conditions. Additionally, some of Sirius Group’s assumed reinsurance contracts written in the United States contain optional cancellation, commutation and/or funding provisions that would be triggered if A.M. Best and/or Standard & Poor’s were to downgrade Sirius Group’s financial strength ratings below “A-”. A client may choose to exercise these rights depending on, among other things, the reasons for such a downgrade, the extent of the downgrade, the prevailing market conditions, the degree of unexpired coverage, and the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage. We cannot predict in advance how many of our clients would actually exercise such rights in the event of such a downgrade but widespread exercise of these options could be materially adverse. 29 Table of Contents The property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries are highly competitive and cyclical and we may not be able to compete effectively in the future. The property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries are highly competitive and have historically been cyclical, experiencing periods of severe price competition and less selective underwriting standards (“soft markets”) followed by periods of relatively high prices and more selective underwriting standards (“hard markets”). OneBeacon competes with most of the specialty companies, such as Allied World Assurance Company, HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc., Ironshore Inc., Markel Corporation, RLI Corp. and W.R. Berkley Corporation. OneBeacon’s businesses each compete against a different subset of companies. In general terms, OneBeacon also competes to varying degrees in one or more of its businesses with most of the large multi-line insurance companies, such as ACE Limited, Chartis Insurance, Chubb Group of Insurance Companies, CNA Insurance, Liberty Mutual Insurance Group, Travelers Insurance Group Holdings Inc. and Zurich Financial Services Ltd. and with various local and regional insurance companies. Sirius Group competes with numerous reinsurance companies throughout the world, including Alterra Capital Holdings, Ltd., Arch Capital Group Ltd., Aspen Insurance Holdings Ltd., Axis Capital Holdings, Ltd., Endurance Specialty Holdings Ltd., Everest Re Group, Ltd., Flagstone Re Holdings SA, General Reinsurance Corporation, Hannover Ruckversicherung AG, Lloyd’s of London, Montpelier Re Holdings, Ltd., Munich Re Group, Odyssey Re Holdings Corporation, Partner Re Ltd., Platinum Underwriters Holdings Ltd., Renaissance Re Holdings Ltd., Scor Global P&C, Swiss Re Group, Transatlantic Holdings, Inc., Validus Holdings, Ltd. and XL Capital Ltd. Many of these competitors have greater resources than we do and have established long-term and continuing business relationships throughout the insurance industry, which can be a significant competitive advantage for them. OneBeacon offers its products through a number of distribution partners, consisting of independent agents, regional and national brokers, wholesalers and MGAs. Many of OneBeacon’s distribution partners offer insurance products sold by other insurance companies in addition to OneBeacon’s insurance products. We could be adversely affected if these distribution partners place more of their business with other insurance companies as a result of price competition or other factors. Additionally, OneBeacon’s distribution partners compete with other independent agents, regional and national brokers, wholesalers and MGAs to place insurance products. We could be adversely affected if OneBeacon’s distribution partners are unable to maintain a competitive position in their respective markets. The supply of reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the level of insured losses and the level of industry surplus which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return earned in the reinsurance industry. As a result, the reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excess underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium rate levels. For example, the industry experienced a soft casualty market of lower prices and less favorable terms from 1997 to 2001 during which profitability suffered while the losses incurred from the 2005 U.S. hurricanes triggered price increases. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers significantly affect the reinsurance industry cycle. Soft insurance markets could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable contract terms, fewer submissions for our underwriting capacity and potential regulatory response. We expect to continue to experience the effects of the insurance and reinsurance industries’ cyclicality. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position throughout soft and hard market cycles, our insurance and reinsurance businesses may be adversely affected and we may not be able to compete effectively in the future. Our loss and loss adjustment expense reserves may be inadequate to cover our ultimate liability for losses and as a result our financial results could be adversely affected. We are required to maintain adequate reserves to cover our estimated ultimate liabilities for loss and loss adjustment expenses. Loss and LAE reserves are typically comprised of (1) case reserves for claims reported and (2) IBNR reserves for losses that have occurred but for which claims have not yet been reported which include a provision for expected future development on case reserves. These reserves are estimates based on actuarial, claims and underwriting assessments of what we believe the settlement and administration of claims will cost based on facts and circumstances then known to us. Because of the uncertainties that surround estimating ultimate loss and LAE reserves, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate and actual claims and claim expenses paid might exceed our reserves due to the uncertainties that surround estimating loss and LAE reserves. If we determine in the future that our reserves are insufficient to cover our actual losses and LAE, we would have to add to our reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For further discussion of our loss and LAE reserves, including our asbestos and environmental reserves, see “CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES - Loss and LAE Reserves” on page 65. 30 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements. Additionally, we may not be able to collect all amounts due from our reinsurers under our existing reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements. We attempt to limit our risk of loss through reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements. Retrocessional arrangements refer to reinsurance purchased by a reinsurer to cover its own risks assumed from ceding companies. The availability and cost of reinsurance and retrocessional protection is subject to market conditions, which are outside of our control. In addition, the coverage under our reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements may be inadequate to cover our future liabilities. As a result, we may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through these arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are not relieved of our obligations to our policyholders or ceding companies by purchasing reinsurance. Accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurance and retrocessions in the event that a reinsurer is unable to pay amounts owed to us as a result of a deterioration in its financial condition. A number of reinsurers in the industry experienced such a deterioration in the aftermath of the 2001 terrorist attacks and the active 2005 hurricane season. To mitigate this risk, we annually review and periodically monitor our reinsurers’ financial condition. While we believe that our reinsurers’ financial condition is strong, it is possible that one or more of our reinsurers will be significantly adversely affected by future significant loss events, causing them to be unable to pay amounts owed to us. We also may be unable to recover amounts due under our reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements if our reinsurers choose to withhold payment due to a dispute or other factors beyond our control. Our reinsurance operations are largely dependent upon ceding companies’ evaluation of risk. Sirius Group, like other reinsurance companies that write treaty reinsurance, generally does not evaluate separately each of the assumed individual insurance risks under our reinsurance contracts. As such, we are largely dependent upon the cedents’ original underwriting decisions. We are subject to the risk that the cedents may not have adequately or accurately evaluated the risks that they have insured, and we have reinsured, and that the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. If our reserves are insufficient to cover our actual loss and LAE arising from our treaty reinsurance business, we would have to strengthen our reserves and incur charges to our earnings. These charges could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have significant foreign operations that expose us to certain additional risks, including foreign currency risks and political risk. Sirius Group conducts a significant portion of its business outside of the United States. As a result, a significant portion of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and are therefore subject to foreign currency risk. Our foreign currency risk cannot be eliminated entirely and significant changes in foreign exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our foreign operations are also subject to legal, political and operational risks that may be greater than those present in the United States. As a result, our operations at these foreign locations could be temporarily or permanently disrupted. Our debt, preferred stock and related service obligations could adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $672 million face value of indebtedness and $250 million face value of non-cumulative perpetual preference shares outstanding. Our ability to meet our debt, preferred stock and related service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We are also subject to restrictive financial covenants contained in our revolving credit facility that require us to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy financial condition tests. These covenants can restrict us in several ways, including our ability to incur additional indebtedness. A breach of these covenants could result in an event of default under our revolving credit facility which would allow lenders to declare any amounts owed under the revolving credit facility to be immediately due and payable. A failure to pay principal and interest on a credit facility, mortgage or similar debt agreement with a principal amount greater than $25 million, where such a default results in the acceleration of such debt, could trigger cross acceleration provisions contained in the indenture of the OBH Senior Notes. A failure to pay principal and interest on the OBH Senior Notes or the SIG Senior Notes could trigger a cross acceleration provision contained in our revolving credit facility. If we do not have enough cash to repay accelerated debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more cash or sell equity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We could incur additional indebtedness and issue additional preferred stock in the future. To the extent new debt, new preferred stock and other obligations are added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt and preferred stock levels, the risks described in the previous paragraph would increase. 31 Table of Contents We are a holding company with no direct operations, and our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends to us is restricted by law. As a holding company with no direct operations, we rely on net investment income and dividends, tax sharing payments and other permitted payments from our subsidiaries to pay our expenses. Our subsidiaries may not be able to generate cash flow sufficient to pay a dividend or distribute funds to us. In addition, under the insurance laws of the jurisdictions in which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are domiciled, an insurer or reinsurer is restricted with respect to the timing or the amount of dividends it may pay without prior approval by regulatory authorities. Our top tier regulated insurance and reinsurance operating subsidiaries have the ability to pay approximately $696 million of dividends and group contributions without prior approval of regulatory authorities during 2012. At December 31, 2011, the Company and its intermediate holding companies had $1,554 million of net unrestricted cash, short-term investments and fixed maturity investments and $350 million of common equity securities and other long-term investments outside of OneBeacon and Sirius Group and $375 million available to be drawn from its revolving credit facility. In addition, at December 31, 2011 OneBeacon Ltd. and its intermediate holding companies had $183 million of net unrestricted cash, short-term investments and fixed maturity investments and $30 million of common equity securities and convertible fixed maturity investments outside of its regulated and unregulated insurance operating subsidiaries; Sirius Group and its intermediate holding companies had $75 million of net unrestricted cash, short-term investments and fixed maturity investments and $16 million of other long-term investments outside of its regulated and unregulated insurance and reinsurance operating subsidiaries. See “Dividend Capacity” on page 56. Management believes that our cash balances, cash flows from operations and cash flows from investments are adequate to meet expected cash requirements for the foreseeable future on both a holding company and operating subsidiary level. However, if our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries cannot pay dividends in future periods or if we contribute additional funds to fulfill our obligations under our life reinsurance contracts, we may have difficulty servicing our debt, paying dividends on our common and preferred shares and meeting our holding company expenses. For additional information relating to insurance and reinsurance regulations governing our operations, see “Regulation” on page 22. We may suffer losses from unfavorable outcomes from litigation and other legal proceedings. In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to litigation and other legal proceedings as part of the claims process, the outcomes of which are uncertain. We maintain reserves for these legal proceedings as part of our loss and LAE reserves. We also maintain separate reserves for legal proceedings that are not related to the claims process. Additionally, we have agreed to indemnify Allstate in respect of certain litigation and other matters arising out of the operations of Esurance prior to the closing of the Esurance Sale. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more legal matters, our ultimate liability may be in excess of amounts we have currently reserved for and such additional amounts may be material to our results of operations and financial condition. For a description of our material legal proceedings, see “Legal Proceedings” on page 35 and Note 19 Commitments and Contingencies on page F-66. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number and size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued insurance and reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. Regulation may restrict our ability to operate. The insurance and reinsurance industries are subject to extensive regulation under U.S., state and foreign laws. Governmental agencies have broad administrative power to regulate many aspects of the insurance business, which include premium rates, marketing practices, advertising, policy forms and capital adequacy. These governmental agencies are concerned primarily with the protection of policyholders rather than shareholders. Insurance laws and regulations impose restrictions on the amount and type of investments, prescribe solvency standards that must be met and maintained and require the maintenance of reserves. In our insurance underwriting, we rely heavily upon information gathered from third parties such as credit report agencies and other data aggregators. The use of this information is also highly regulated and any changes to the current regulatory structure could materially affect how we underwrite and price premiums. Changes in laws and regulations may restrict our ability to operate and/or have an adverse effect upon the profitability of our business within a given jurisdiction. In addition, state and federal legislation has been proposed to establish catastrophe funds and underwriting in coastal areas which could impact our business. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act, which was enacted in 2010, created the FIO within the Treasury Department. The FIO is responsible for gathering information and monitoring the insurance industry to identify gaps in the regulation of insurers that could contribute to a systemic crisis in the insurance industry or U.S. financial system. The FIO also has the authority to recommend changes to state insurance laws and regulations. The FIO is expected to issue its first report on modernizing and improving insurance regulation in 2012. We cannot predict whether the FIO will recommend any such changes, whether any states will adopt any such changes, or what effect such changes may have on our insurance operations. 32 Table of Contents Our non-U.S. reinsurance companies are subject to foreign regulations, including Solvency II which will be effective January 1, 2014 and will regulate insurance firms that operate in the EU. Solvency II was enacted to reduce the risk that insurers would not be able to pay claims to policyholders as well as promote financial stability through minimum capital requirements as well as other requirements for the governance and risk management of insurers and the supervision of insurers. We cannot predict what regulations will be adopted to implement Solvency II nor the impact of such regulation upon our non-U.S. reinsurers. In addition, it is possible that the NAIC could adopt part or all of Solvency II including minimum capital requirements that could be in excess of our current minimum capital requirements established by state regulations. If the NAIC adopted Solvency II including additional capital requirements, our business and results of operations could be materially impacted. We could be subject to litigation, regulatory enforcement action and damage to our reputation if confidential personally identifiable information is mishandled or stolen. Our operating entities, particularly OneBeacon, collect and store personally identifiable information from consumers. If our data security measures fail and personally identifiable information is mishandled or stolen, we could be subject to litigation and regulatory enforcement action. Further, such a failure could damage our reputation, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability may be adversely impacted by inflation, legislative actions and judicial decisions. The effects of inflation could cause claim costs to rise in the future. In addition, legislative actions and judicial decisions continue to broaden liability and policy definitions and to increase the severity of claim payments, such as described above with respect to asbestos and environmental claims. To the extent inflation and these legislative actions and judicial decisions cause claim costs to increase above reserves established for these claims, we will be required to increase our loss and LAE reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. We have successfully created shareholder value through acquisitions and dispositions of insurance and reinsurance entities. We may not be able to continue to create shareholder value through such transactions in the future. In past years, we have completed numerous acquisitions and dispositions of insurance and reinsurance entities, many of which have contributed significantly to our growth in adjusted book value. Failure to identify and complete future acquisition and disposition opportunities could limit our ability to achieve our target returns. Even if we were to identify and complete future acquisition or disposition opportunities, there is no assurance that such opportunities will ultimately achieve their anticipated benefits. We have significant deferred tax assets which we may be unable to utilize if we do not generate sufficient future taxable income. We have a deferred tax asset of $109 million (net of a valuation allowance of $7 million) related to net operating loss carryforwards, capital loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards at December 31, 2011 that are subject to carryforward limitations in the United States. We also have a deferred tax asset of $276 million (net of a valuation allowance of $225 million) related to net operating loss carryforwards in Luxembourg at December 31, 2011 that are not subject to limitation. The loss carryforwards in Luxembourg primarily relate to tax deductible write-downs in 2007 and 2008 of investments in U.S. subsidiaries held by Luxembourg subsidiaries. Utilization of these assets and other assets included in our worldwide net deferred tax asset of $171 million (net of a valuation allowance of $233 million) is dependent on generating sufficient future taxable income of the appropriate character (i.e., ordinary income or capital gains) in the appropriate jurisdiction. If it is determined that it is more likely than not that sufficient future taxable income will not be generated, we would be required to increase the valuation allowance in future periods, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in tax laws or tax treaties may cause more of the income of certain non-U.S. companies in our group to become subject to taxes in the United States. The taxable income of our U.S. subsidiaries is subject to U.S. federal, state and local income tax and other taxes. The income of the non-U.S. companies in our group is generally subject to a lower effective tax rate than that imposed by the United States. Certain of our non-U.S. companies are eligible for the benefits of tax treaties between the United States and other countries. We believe our non-U.S. companies will continue to be eligible for treaty benefits. However, it is possible that factual changes or changes to U.S. tax laws or changes to tax treaties that presently apply to our non-U.S. companies could increase income, or the tax rate on income, subject to tax in the United States. Similarly, changes to the applicable tax laws, treaties or regulations of other countries could subject the income of members of our group to higher rates of tax outside the United States. For example, legislation has been introduced to Congress to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to disallow the deduction for excess non-taxed reinsurance premiums with respect to United States risks paid to affiliates. 33 Table of Contents We depend on our key personnel to manage our business effectively and they may be difficult to replace. Our performance substantially depends on the efforts and abilities of our management team and other executive officers and key employees. Furthermore, much of our competitive advantage is based on the expertise, experience and know-how of our key management personnel. We do not have fixed term employment agreements with any of our key employees nor key man life insurance and the loss of one or more of these key employees could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success also depends on the ability to hire and retain additional personnel. Difficulty in hiring or retaining personnel could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to shareholders. We are organized under the laws of Bermuda, and a portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for our shareholders to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States, either in Bermuda or in countries other than the United States where we will have assets. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States or would hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. Our corporate affairs are governed by the Companies Act. The Companies Act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, amalgamations, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. Generally, the duties of directors and officers of a Bermuda company are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Bermuda companies generally do not have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company and may only do so in limited circumstances. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under Bermuda law. The Bermuda courts, however, would ordinarily be expected to permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of a company to remedy a wrong to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company or illegal, or would result in the violation of the company’s memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by a Bermuda court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against noncontrolling shareholders or, for instance, where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of the company’s shareholders than that which actually approved it. When the affairs of a company are being conducted in a manner that is oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some part of the shareholders, one or more shareholders may apply to the Supreme Court of Bermuda, which may make such order as it sees fit, including an order regulating the conduct of the company’s affairs in the future or ordering the purchase of the shares of any shareholders by other shareholders or by the company. Additionally, under our bye-laws and as permitted by Bermuda law, each shareholder has waived any claim or right of action against our directors or officers for any action taken by directors or officers in the performance of their duties, except for actions involving fraud or dishonesty. In addition, the rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Bermuda law are not as clearly established as under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in jurisdictions in the United States, particularly the State of Delaware. Therefore, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States. 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the date of this report, the Company had no unresolved comments from the Commission staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 