Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe information contained in this report may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. See “FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS” (page 109) for specific important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements. The Company’s actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below.Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or losses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Adverse changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity markets, debt markets or market volatility could result in significant losses to the fair value of our investment portfolio and could generate significant losses in our life reinsurance business.Our investment portfolio consists of fixed maturity investments, short-term investments, common equity securities, convertibles and other long-term investments, including hedge funds and private equity funds. We invest to maximize long-term total returns (after-tax) while taking prudent levels of risk and maintaining a diversified portfolio subject to our investment guidelines and various regulatory restrictions. However, investing entails substantial risks. We may not achieve our investment objectives, and our investment performance may vary substantially over time. Investment returns are an important part of our strategy to grow adjusted book value per share, and fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could impair our results of operations and financial condition. Both the investment income we generate and the fair market value of our investment portfolio are affected by general economic and market conditions, including fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, debt market levels, equity market levels and market volatility. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. In particular, a significant increase in interest rates could result in significant losses in the fair value of our investment portfolio and, consequently, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to changes in equity markets. A significant decline in the equity markets such as that experienced from September 2008 to March 2009 could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Because a portion of our investment portfolio is invested in securities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar, the value of our portfolio is sensitive to changes in foreign currency rates. We are also exposed to changes in the volatility levels of various investment markets. The underlying conditions prompting such changes are outside of our control and could adversely affect the value of our investments and our results of operations and financial condition.Our life reinsurance business has reinsured the risk related to a shortfall between the account value and the guaranteed value that must be paid in respect of certain Japanese variable annuity contracts. We use derivative instruments to mitigate the market risks associated with changes in the fair value of these guarantees. These derivative instruments include put options, interest rate swaps, total return swaps and futures contracts on major equity indices, currency pairs and government bonds. However, these derivatives may not fully mitigate our exposure to the changes in the fair value of the guarantees. For example, WM Life Re reported significant losses in 2008 because the increase in the fair value of its liabilities exceeded the increase in the fair value of the related derivative instruments.The fair value of our life reinsurance contracts and the related derivative instruments is significantly affected by general economic and market conditions such as equity market returns and volatility, interest rate fluctuations and foreign currency exchange rates. These conditions are outside of our control and could generate significant losses that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.36Unpredictable catastrophic events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.We write insurance and reinsurance policies that cover unpredictable catastrophic events. Covered unpredictable catastrophic events include natural and other disasters, such as hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, floods, wildfires and severe winter weather. Catastrophes can also include terrorist attacks, explosions and infrastructure failures. We have significant exposure to a major earthquake or series of earthquakes in California, the Midwestern United States, Japan and Latin America and to windstorm damage in Northern Europe, the Northeast United States, the United States Atlantic Coast (i.e., Massachusetts to Florida) and the United States Gulf Coast (i.e., Florida to Texas) regions. In addition, we are exposed to losses from terrorist attacks, such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001. We are also exposed to losses caused by the same types of catastrophic events in other lines of business such as marine, aviation, trade credit and accident and health. The extent of catastrophe losses is a function of both the severity of the event and total amount of insured exposure affected by the event. Increases in the value and concentration of insured property or insured employees, the effects of inflation, changes in weather patterns and increased terrorism could increase the future frequency and/or severity of claims from catastrophic events. Claims from catastrophic events could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to write new insurance and reinsurance policies could also be impacted as a result of corresponding reductions in our capital levels.We seek to manage our exposure to catastrophic losses by limiting the aggregate insured value of policies in geographic areas with exposure to catastrophic events by estimating a PML for many different catastrophe scenarios and by buying reinsurance. To manage and analyze aggregate insured values and PML, we use a variety of tools, including external and internal catastrophe modeling software packages. Our estimates of PML are dependent on many variables, including assumptions about the demand surge and storm surge, loss adjustment expenses, insurance-to-value and storm intensity in the aftermath of weather- related catastrophes utilized to model the event, the relationship of the actual event to the modeled event and the quality of data provided to us by ceding companies (in the case of our reinsurance operations). Accordingly, if our assumptions about the variables are incorrect, the losses we might incur from an actual catastrophe could be materially higher than our expectation of losses generated from modeled catastrophe scenarios and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may not maintain favorable financial strength or creditworthiness ratings, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct business.Third-party rating agencies assess and rate the financial strength, including claims-paying ability, of insurers and reinsurers. These ratings are based upon criteria established by the rating agencies and are subject to revision at any time at the sole discretion of the agencies. Some of the criteria relate to general economic conditions and other circumstances outside the rated company’s control. These financial strength ratings are used by policyholders, agents and brokers to assess the suitability of insurers and reinsurers as business counterparties and are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies. The maintenance of an “A-” or better financial strength rating from A.M. Best and/or Standard & Poor’s is particularly important to our ability to write new or renewal property and casualty insurance and reinsurance business in most markets, while the maintenance of an “AA” or better financial strength rating from Standard & Poor’s is particularly important to BAM’s ability to write municipal bond insurance. General creditworthiness ratings are used by existing or potential investors to assess the likelihood of repayment on a particular debt issue. The maintenance of an investment grade creditworthiness rating (e.g., “BBB-” or better from Standard & Poor’s, “Baa3” or better from Moody’s and “BBB-” or better from Fitch) is important to our ability to raise new debt with acceptable terms. We believe that strong creditworthiness ratings are important factors that provide better financial flexibility when issuing new debt or restructuring existing debt.Rating agencies periodically evaluate us to confirm that we continue to meet the criteria of the ratings previously assigned to us. See “RATINGS” on page 35 for a summary of financial strength ratings on our significant insurance and reinsurance operating subsidiaries. A downgrade, withdrawal or negative watch/outlook of our financial strength ratings could severely limit or prevent our operating subsidiaries from writing new policies or renewing existing policies, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A downgrade, withdrawal or negative watch/outlook of our creditworthiness ratings could limit our ability to raise new debt or could make new debt more costly and/or have more restrictive conditions. Additionally, some of Sirius Group’s assumed reinsurance contracts contain optional cancellation, commutation and/or funding provisions that would be triggered if A.M. Best and/or Standard & Poor’s were to downgrade the financial strength ratings of Sirius Group’s principal reinsurance operating subsidiaries ratings below “A-”. A client may choose to exercise these rights depending on, among other things, the reasons for such a downgrade, the extent of the downgrade, the prevailing market conditions, the degree of unexpired coverage, and the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage. We cannot predict in advance how many of our clients would actually exercise such rights in the event of such a downgrade but widespread exercise of these options could be materially adverse. 37The property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries are highly competitive and cyclical and we may not be able to compete effectively in the future.The property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries are highly competitive and have historically been cyclical, experiencing periods of severe price competition and less selective underwriting standards (“soft markets”) followed by periods of relatively high prices and more selective underwriting standards (“hard markets”). In general terms, OneBeacon competes in one or more of its businesses with most of the large multi-line insurance companies, most of the specialty companies and various local and regional insurance companies. Sirius Group competes with numerous reinsurance companies throughout the world and Syndicate 1945 also competes with other Lloyd’s syndicates and London Market Companies. Many of these competitors have greater resources than we do, have established long-term and continuing business relationships throughout the insurance and reinsurance industries and may have higher financial strength ratings, which can be a significant competitive advantage for them. In addition, number of Sirius Group’s competitors have recently announced acquisition and merger plans. These acquisition/merger plans may have effects on the reinsurance market in the future, including items such as the availability of displaced underwriting teams and/or submission line share allocations. We cannot predict how these mergers will impact Sirius Group’s and/or its competitors’ ability to compete in the worldwide reinsurance marketplace. OneBeacon could fail to build and sustain the kind of business relationships, including distribution relationships, that are necessary to compete. To compete, OneBeacon offers its products through a select network of independent agents, regional and national brokers, wholesalers and managing general agencies, or MGAs. Additionally, OneBeacon’s distribution partners compete with other independent agents, regional and national brokers, wholesalers and MGAs to place insurance products. If OneBeacon’s distribution partners place more of their business with OneBeacon’s competitors as a result of price competition, commission rates or other factors, or if OneBeacon’s distribution partners are unable to maintain a competitive position in their respective markets, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. OneBeacon could also fail to successfully manage risks associated with the general cyclicality of the property and casualty market. Any significant decrease in the rates OneBeacon can charge for property and casualty insurance would adversely affect its results. OneBeacon also expects to continue to experience the effects of cyclicality which, during down periods, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Soft primary insurance market conditions could lead to a significant reduction in reinsurance premium rates, less favorable contract terms and fewer submissions for our reinsurance underwriting capacity. The supply of reinsurance is also related to the level of reinsured losses and the level of industry capital which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return earned in the reinsurance industry. As a result, the reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excess underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted improvements in reinsurance rate levels and terms and conditions. For example, the industry experienced soft casualty market conditions of lower prices and less favorable terms from 1997 to 2001 during which profitability suffered, while the losses incurred from the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and the 2005 U.S. hurricanes triggered price increases. In addition, in recent years the persistent low interest rate environment and ease of entry into the reinsurance sector has led to increased competition from third party capital in the property catastrophe excess reinsurance line. This alternative capital provides collateralized property catastrophe protection in the form of catastrophe bonds, industry loss warranties, sidecars and other vehicles that facilitate the ability for non-reinsurance entities, such as hedge funds and pension funds, to compete for property catastrophe excess reinsurance business outside of the traditional treaty market. We have observed reduced pricing and/or reduced shares in certain property catastrophe excess reinsurance markets as a result. We expect to continue to experience the effects of the insurance and reinsurance industries’ cyclicality. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position throughout soft and hard market cycles, our insurance and reinsurance businesses may be adversely affected and we may not be able to compete effectively in the future.Our loss and LAE reserves may be inadequate to cover our ultimate liability for losses and as a result our financial results could be adversely affected.We must maintain reserves adequate to cover our estimated ultimate liabilities for loss and loss adjustment expenses. Loss and LAE reserves are typically comprised of (1) case reserves for claims reported and (2) IBNR reserves for losses that have occurred but for which claims have not yet been reported and for expected future development on case reserves. These reserves are estimates based on actuarial, claims and underwriting assessments of what we believe the settlement and administration of claims will cost based on facts and circumstances then known to us. Because of uncertainties associated with estimating ultimate loss and LAE reserves, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate. In the event that our reserves become insufficient to cover our actual losses and LAE, we may need to add to our reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For further discussion of our loss and LAE reserves, including our asbestos and environmental reserves, see “CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES - Loss and LAE Reserves” on page 87.38We may not successfully alleviate risk through reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements. Additionally, we may not collect all amounts due from our reinsurers under our existing reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements.We attempt to limit our risk of loss through reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements. Retrocessional arrangements refer to reinsurance purchased by a reinsurer to cover its own risks assumed from ceding companies. The availability and cost of reinsurance and retrocessional protection is subject to market conditions, which are outside of our control. In addition, the coverage provided by our reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements may be inadequate to cover our future liabilities. As a result, we may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through these arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Purchasing reinsurance does not relieve us of our underlying obligations to policyholders or ceding companies, so any inability to collect amounts due from reinsurers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Inability to collect amounts due from reinsurers can result from a number of scenarios, including: (1) reinsurers choosing to withhold payment due to a dispute or other factors beyond our control; and (2) reinsurers becoming unable to pay amounts owed to us as a result of a deterioration in their financial condition. While we regularly review the financial condition of our reinsurers and currently believe their condition is strong, it is possible that one or more of our reinsurers will be adversely affected by future significant losses or economic events, causing them to be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us.Because the Terrorism Act has greatly influenced the way in which insurers define, offer and price coverage, changes to the Terrorism Act or any other legislative or court-imposed requirements could fundamentally change the risks associated with terrorism coverage, including the reinsurance we purchase to protect us against losses related to terrorist acts.In addition, due to factors such as the price or availability of reinsurance or retrocessional coverage, we sometimes decide to increase the amount of risk we retain by purchasing less reinsurance. Such determinations have the effect of increasing our financial exposure to losses associated with such risks and, in the event of significant losses associated with a given risk, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If BAM does not pay some or all of the interest and principal due on the BAM Surplus Notes, our adjusted book value per share, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. As of December 31, 2014, White Mountains owns $503 million in BAM Surplus Notes and has accrued $74 million in interest due thereon. No payment of the interest or principal on the BAM Surplus Notes may be made without the approval of the New York State Department of Financial Services. In addition, BAM’s ability to pay the interest and principal on the BAM Surplus Notes is dependent upon, among other things, whether BAM collects sufficient premiums and member surplus contributions (“MSC”). Interest payments on the BAM Surplus Notes are due quarterly but are subject to deferral, without penalty or default and without compounding, for repayment in the future. No principal is due on the BAM Surplus Notes prior to their stated maturity of 2042. BAM has the right at any time to prepay principal in whole or in part.BAM’s premiums and MSC are dependent on several factors, many of which are beyond BAM’s control. BAM’s premiums and MSC are dependent upon the size of the primary municipal bond market, investors’ demand for municipal bond insurance, which generally fluctuates with changes in credit spreads, and BAM’s share of the municipal bond insurance market. Pricing is also driven by credit spreads. Credit spread is the incremental yield that investors demand for taking credit risk. When the difference in credit spreads is narrow between higher and lower rated bonds, municipal bond insurance provides less cost savings to issuers than it would during periods when the difference in credit spreads between higher and lower rated bonds is wide, which results in decreased demand and/or lower premium levels for municipal bond insurance. BAM’s pricing, and therefore its premiums, are also affected by competition. BAM competes with Assured and National in a highly competitive marketplace. During 2014, BAM’s gross written premiums were $16 million and MSC were $16 million. BAM must grow these amounts in the future to be able to pay all of the amounts due on the BAM Surplus Notes. If BAM does not pay some or all of the amounts due on the BAM Surplus Notes for any reason, our adjusted book value per share, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted.Our reinsurance operations are largely dependent upon ceding companies’ evaluation of risk.Sirius Group, like other reinsurance companies that write treaty reinsurance, generally does not evaluate separately each of the assumed individual insurance risks under our reinsurance contracts. As such, we are largely dependent upon the cedants’ original underwriting decisions. We are subject to the risk that the cedants may not have adequately or accurately evaluated the risks that they have insured, and we have reinsured, and that the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. If our reserves are insufficient to cover our actual loss and LAE arising from our treaty reinsurance business, we would have to strengthen our reserves and incur charges to our earnings. These charges could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.39We have significant foreign operations that expose us to certain additional risks, including foreign currency risks and political risk.Sirius Group conducts a significant portion of its business outside of the United States. As a result, a significant portion of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and are therefore subject to foreign currency risk. Significant changes in foreign exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Our foreign operations are also subject to legal, political and operational risks that may be greater than those present in the United States. As a result, our operations at these foreign locations could be temporarily or permanently disrupted.Our debt, preferred stock, unsecured letters of credit and related service obligations could adversely affect our business.As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately $747 million face value of indebtedness and $250 million face value of non-cumulative perpetual preference shares outstanding. We also had an undrawn $425 million revolving credit facility and $125 million of issued but undrawn unsecured letters of credit (“LOCs”). Our ability to meet our debt, preferred stock, unsecured LOCs and related service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.We are also subject to restrictive financial covenants contained in our revolving credit facility. These covenants require us to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy certain financial condition tests. These covenants can restrict us in several ways, including our ability to incur additional indebtedness. An uncured breach of these covenants could result in an event of default under our revolving credit facility which would allow lenders to declare any amounts owed under our revolving credit facility to be immediately due and payable. In addition, a default under our revolving credit facility could occur if certain of our subsidiaries fail to pay principal and interest on a credit facility, mortgage or similar debt agreement (collectively, “covered debt”), or fail to otherwise comply with obligations in such covered debt agreements where such a default gives the holder of the covered debt the right to accelerate at least $75 million of principal amount of covered debt. A failure by OneBeacon Ltd. or its subsidiaries to pay principal and interest on covered debt or to comply with obligations in covered debt agreements that results in the acceleration of at least $75 million of principal amount of covered debt could trigger the acceleration of the OBH Senior Notes. A failure by SIG to pay principal and interest on covered debt or to comply with obligations in covered debt agreements that results in the acceleration of at least $25 million of principal amount of covered debt could trigger the acceleration of the SIG Senior Notes.We are also subject to restrictive financial covenants contained in our unsecured LOCs. These covenants require us to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy certain financial condition tests. These covenants can restrict us in several ways, including our ability to incur additional indebtedness and/or issue additional unsecured LOCs. An uncured breach of these covenants could result in an event of default under our unsecured LOCs, which would allow providers to demand cash collateralization of the unsecured LOCs and/or cancel and return the issued LOCs. In addition, a default under the unsecured LOCs could occur if certain of our subsidiaries fail to pay principal and interest on covered debt, or fail to otherwise comply with obligations in such covered debt agreements where such a default gives the holder of the covered debt the right to accelerate at least $75 million of principal amount of covered debt. If we do not have enough cash to repay accelerated debt or cash collateralize unsecured LOCs, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt or unsecured LOCs, sell assets, borrow more cash or sell equity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on terms acceptable to us, if at all.We could incur additional indebtedness, issue additional preferred stock and issue additional unsecured LOCs in the future. To the extent new debt, new preferred stock, new unsecured LOCs and other obligations are added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt, preferred stock and unsecured LOC levels, the risks described in the previous paragraph would increase.40We are a holding company with no direct operations, and our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us is restricted by law.As a holding company with no direct operations, we rely in large part on dividends, tax sharing payments and other permitted payments from our subsidiaries to pay our expenses. Our subsidiaries may not be able to generate cash flow sufficient to pay a dividend or distribute funds to us. In addition, under the insurance laws of the jurisdictions in which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are domiciled, an insurer or reinsurer is restricted with respect to the timing or the amount of dividends it may pay without prior approval by regulatory authorities.Our top tier regulated insurance and reinsurance operating subsidiaries have the ability to pay $500 million of dividends to us without prior approval of regulatory authorities during 2015. As of December 31, 2014, the Company and its intermediate holding companies had $275 million of net unrestricted cash, short-term investments and fixed maturity investments and $279 million of common equity securities, convertibles and other long-term investments outside of OneBeacon and Sirius Group and $425 million available to be drawn from our revolving credit facility. In addition, as of December 31, 2014, OneBeacon Ltd. and its intermediate holding companies had $107 million of net unrestricted cash, short-term investments and fixed maturity investments and $89 million of common equity securities and convertibles outside of its regulated and unregulated insurance operating subsidiaries; Sirius Group and its intermediate holding companies had $20 million of net unrestricted cash, short-term investments and fixed maturity investments outside of its regulated and unregulated insurance and reinsurance operating subsidiaries. See “Dividend Capacity” on page 75. Management believes that our cash balances, cash flows from operations and cash flows from investments are adequate to meet expected cash requirements for the foreseeable future on both a holding company and operating subsidiary level. However, if our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries cannot pay dividends, tax sharing and other permitted payments in future periods or if we contribute additional funds to fulfill our obligations under our life reinsurance contracts, we may have difficulty servicing our debt, paying dividends on our common and preferred shares and paying our holding company expenses. For additional information relating to insurance and reinsurance regulations governing our operations, see “Regulation” on page 29.We may suffer losses from unfavorable outcomes from litigation and other legal proceedings.In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to litigation and other legal proceedings as part of the claims process, the outcomes of which are uncertain. We maintain reserves for claims-related legal proceedings as part of our loss and LAE reserves. Adverse outcomes are possible and could negatively impact our financial condition. Furthermore, as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number and size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued the affected insurance contracts. Examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: •New theories of liability and disputes regarding medical causation with respect to certain diseases; •Claims related to data security breaches, information system failures or cyber-attacks; and •Claims related to blackouts caused by space weather. In addition, from time to time we are subject to legal proceedings that are not related to the claims process. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more non-claims legal matters, our ultimate liability may be in excess of amounts we have reserved and such additional amounts may be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, it is possible that these non-claims legal proceedings could result in equitable remedies or other unexpected outcomes that may materially impact our business or operations.Subsequent to the December 23, 2014 closing of the Runoff Transaction, on January 22, 2015, three holders of insurance policies issued by the companies OneBeacon sold to Armour in the Runoff Transaction filed a Petition for Review with the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania (“Commonwealth Court”) requesting that the Commonwealth Court vacate the Pennsylvania Insurance Department’s (“PID”) orders approving the Runoff Transaction and denying their right to intervene in the PID’s regulatory review of the Runoff Transaction.41Regulation may restrict our ability to operate.Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate. The primary goal of the regulation is the protection of policyholders rather than shareholders. For example, in order to protect insurer solvency, state insurance regulations impose restrictions on the amount and type of investments, establish detail minimum capital standards and require the maintenance of reserves. Our insurance underwriting is heavily dependent on information gathered from third parties such as highly regulated credit report agencies and other data aggregators. Regulatory changes related to the availability or use of this information could materially affect how we underwrite and price premiums.Changes in laws and regulations may restrict our ability to operate and/or have an adverse effect upon the profitability of our business within a given jurisdiction. For example, as a result of various state, federal and international regulatory efforts to modernize and harmonize insurer solvency regulations in the wake of the recent financial crisis, the states could further restrict allowable investments or increase our capital requirements, both of which could materially impact our business results and results of operations. In addition, U.S. Federal and state legislation has been proposed to establish catastrophe funds and underwriting in coastal areas which could impact our business.Our non-U.S. reinsurance companies are subject to foreign regulations, including Solvency II which regulates insurance firms that operate in the EU. The effective date for Solvency II regulation is January 1, 2016. Solvency II was enacted to reduce the risk that insurers would not be able to pay claims to policyholders as well as promote financial stability through minimum capital requirements as well as other requirements for the governance and risk management of insurers and the supervision of insurers. We cannot predict what regulations will be adopted to implement Solvency II nor the impact of such regulation upon our non-U.S. reinsurers or their wholly owned subsidiaries. In addition, it is possible that the NAIC could adopt part or all of Solvency II including minimum capital requirements that could be in excess of our current minimum capital requirements established by state regulations. If the NAIC adopted Solvency II including additional capital requirements, our business and results of operations could be materially impacted.If we are unable to adequately maintain our systems and safeguard the security of our data, we may be subject to litigation, regulatory enforcement action and damage to our reputation, which would adversely impact our ability to operate our business and cause financial loss.The protection, use, storage, transmission, safeguarding and disposal of sensitive personally identifiable information (“PII”) are subject to laws and regulations in many jurisdictions, including but not limited to U.S. federal consumer protection laws, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), the UK Data Protection Act of 1998, European Union Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC and regulations in the United States at the state governmental level. In addition, we have additional requirements imposed on us by industry standards. For example, many of our businesses are subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, which are designed to protect credit card account information. Our operating businesses depend on our ability to securely process, store, transmit and safeguard confidential and proprietary information that is in our possession including PII belonging to us, to our employees, and to our customers and business partners. Because our systems may be vulnerable to a variety of forms of unauthorized access that could result in a data breach, including hackers, computer viruses, and other cyber-attacks, as well as breaches that result from dishonest employees, errors by employees or lost or stolen computer devices, we may not be able to protect the confidentiality of such information, which could lead to litigation and/or regulatory enforcement action.Because our operating businesses rely on secure and efficient information technology systems, we depend on our ability, and the ability of certain third parties, including vendors and business partners, to access our computer systems to perform necessary functions such as providing quotes and product pricing, billing and processing premiums, administering claims, and reporting our financial results. The functioning of these systems may be impacted by any number of events, including power outages, natural and man-made catastrophes, and cyber-attacks. In the event we are unable to access any of our systems, or any third party system that we rely upon, our ability to operate our business effectively may be significantly impaired.Third parties present an additional risk of cyber-related events. We outsource certain technological and business process functions to third-party providers. We rely on these third parties to maintain and store PII and other confidential information on their systems. We also routinely transmit such information by e-mail and other electronic means. Although we attempt to establish sufficient controls and secure capabilities to transmit such information and to prevent unauthorized disclosure, these controls may not be sufficient. Furthermore, third-party providers may not have appropriate controls in place to protect such information.Our computer systems have been and will continue to be the target of cyber-attacks, although we are not aware that we have experienced a material cybersecurity breach. We are also not aware of any third-party vendor having experienced a material cybersecurity breach that impacted our data. The risk of cyber-attack may increase, and we may experience more significant attacks in the future.42The risks identified above could expose us to data breaches, disruptions of service, financial losses and significant increases in compliance costs and reputational harm to us, any of which could affect our business and results of operations. In addition, a data breach that involves the compromise of PII, could subject us to legal liability or regulatory action under data protection and privacy laws and regulations enacted by federal, state and foreign governments, or other regulatory bodies. As a result, our ability to conduct our business and our results of operations might be materially and adversely affected.Our profitability may be adversely impacted by inflation and legislative actions.The effects of inflation could cause claim costs to rise in the future. In addition, legislative actions can broaden liability and policy definitions and increase the frequency and severity of claim payments. To the extent inflation and these legislative actions and judicial decisions cause claim costs to increase above reserves established for these claims, we will be required to increase our loss and LAE reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified.Legislative actions can also negatively impact non-claims parts of our business. For example, given that one of our insurance company subsidiaries is now authorized to write federal crop insurance, we could be impacted by developments affecting the federal crop insurance program, including provisions in the recently enacted Agricultural Act of 2014 (the “Farm Bill”). For example, the Farm Bill requires authorized carriers to offer new federal crop insurance coverage options, which can affect potential liabilities. Future legislation could also alter or reduce the generally applicable levels of reinsurance support that the federal government provides to authorized insurers. These and other legislative actions could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.We have successfully created shareholder value through acquisitions and dispositions of insurance and reinsurance entities. We may not be able to continue to create shareholder value through such transactions in the future.In past years, we have completed numerous acquisitions and dispositions of insurance and reinsurance entities, many of which have contributed significantly to our growth in adjusted book value. Failure to identify and complete future acquisition and disposition opportunities could limit our ability to achieve our target returns. Even if we were to identify and complete future acquisition or disposition opportunities, there is no assurance that such opportunities will ultimately achieve their anticipated benefits.U.S. Treasury Regulations may limit our ability to make acquisitions of U.S.-domiciled companies using corporate stock.On September 23, 2014, the IRS issued Notice 2014-52, which describes regulations the Treasury Department intends to issue on corporate inversions. Among other provisions, the notice introduces a “cash box rule” that in general reduces a foreign corporation’s value by the percentage of passive assets it holds for the purpose of applying the inversion ownership test. Failure of such test would result in the acquiring corporation being taxed as a U.S. corporation. Should the regulations be enacted as outlined in the Notice, the size of any U.S. company we could acquire for stock would be dramatically reduced without severe adverse tax consequences.We have significant deferred tax assets, which we may be unable to utilize if we do not generate sufficient future taxable income.We have a deferred tax asset of $142 million (net of a valuation allowance of $97 million) related to net operating loss carryforwards, capital loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards as of December 31, 2014 that is subject to carryforward limitations in the United States. We also have a deferred tax asset of $241 million (net of a valuation allowance of $165 million) related to net operating loss carryforwards and unrealized gains and losses in Luxembourg as of December 31, 2014 that is not subject to limitation. Utilization of these assets and other assets included in our worldwide net deferred tax asset of $173 million (net of a valuation allowance of $275 million) is dependent on generating sufficient future taxable income of the appropriate character (i.e. ordinary income or capital gains) in the appropriate jurisdiction. If it is determined that it is more likely than not that sufficient future taxable income will not be generated, we would be required to increase the valuation allowance in future periods, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We have significant deferred tax assets, which we may be unable to utilize pursuant to newly enacted Swedish tax legislation.On January 1, 2013, new tax legislation became effective in Sweden that limits the deductibility of interest paid on certain intra-group debt instruments. Uncertainty exists with respect to the interpretation of the legislation. Adverse interpretation of the legislation could cause us to write down some or all of the $37 million in deferred tax assets related to intra-group debt instruments in our internal capital structure, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.43Changes in tax laws or tax treaties may cause more of the income of certain non-U.S. companies in our group to become subject to taxes in the United States.The taxable income of our U.S. subsidiaries is subject to U.S. federal, state and local income tax and other taxes. The income of the non-U.S. companies in our group is generally subject to a lower effective tax rate than that imposed by the United States. Certain of our non-U.S. companies are eligible for the benefits of tax treaties between the United States and other countries. We believe our non-U.S. companies will continue to be eligible for treaty benefits. However, it is possible that factual changes or changes to U.S. tax laws or changes to tax treaties that presently apply to our non-U.S. companies could increase income subject to tax, or the tax rate on income, in the United States. Similarly, changes to the applicable tax laws, treaties or regulations of other countries could subject the income of members of our group to higher rates of tax outside the United States.The Company and our non-U.S. subsidiaries may become subject to U.S. tax, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our shareholders’ investments. The Company and our non-U.S. subsidiaries operate in a manner so that none of these companies should be subject to U.S. tax (other than U.S. excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premium income attributable to insuring or reinsuring U.S. risks and U.S. withholding tax on some types of U.S. source investment income), because none of these companies should be treated as engaged in a trade or business within the United States. However, because there is considerable uncertainty as to the activities that constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States, we cannot be certain that the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) will not contend successfully that the Company or its non-U.S. subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or business in the United States. If the Company or any of its non-U.S. subsidiaries were considered to be engaged in a trade or business in the United States, such entity could be subject to U.S. corporate income and branch profits taxes on the portion of its earnings effectively connected to such U.S. business, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.We depend on our key personnel to manage our business effectively and they may be difficult to replace.Our performance substantially depends on the efforts and abilities of our management team and other executive officers and key employees. Furthermore, much of our competitive advantage is based on the expertise, experience and know-how of our key management personnel. We do not have fixed term employment agreements with any of our key employees nor key man life insurance and the loss of one or more of these key employees could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success also depends on the ability to hire and retain additional personnel. Difficulty in hiring or retaining personnel could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to shareholders.We are organized under the laws of Bermuda, and a portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for our shareholders to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States, either in Bermuda or in countries other than the United States where we will have assets. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States or would hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws.Our corporate affairs are governed by the Companies Act. The Companies Act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, amalgamations, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. Generally, the duties of directors and officers of a Bermuda company are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Bermuda companies generally do not have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company and may only do so in limited circumstances. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under Bermuda law. The Bermuda courts, however, would ordinarily be expected to permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of a company to remedy a wrong to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company or illegal, or would result in the violation of the company’s memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by a Bermuda court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against non-controlling shareholders or, for instance, where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of the company’s shareholders than that which actually approved it.44When the affairs of a company are being conducted in a manner that is oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some part of the shareholders, one or more shareholders may apply to the Supreme Court of Bermuda, which may make such order as it sees fit, including an order regulating the conduct of the company’s affairs in the future or ordering the purchase of the shares of any shareholders by other shareholders or by the company. Additionally, under our bye-laws and as permitted by Bermuda law, each shareholder has waived any claim or right of action against our directors or officers for any action taken by directors or officers in the performance of their duties, except for actions involving fraud or dishonesty. In addition, the rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Bermuda law are not as clearly established as under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in jurisdictions in the United States, particularly the State of Delaware. Therefore, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States.1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsAs of the date of this report, the Company had no unresolved comments from the Commission staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act.