Item 1A. Risk Factors The information contained in this report may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. See "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS" (page 95) for specific important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements. The Company's actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. Unpredictable catastrophic events could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We write insurance and reinsurance policies that cover catastrophic events. Our policies cover unpredictable natural and other disasters, such as hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, floods, fires and explosions. In recent years, the frequency of major weather-related catastrophes has increased. Our exposure to catastrophic windstorm damage in the Northeastern United States is the largest single natural risk to our business. In the case of OneBeacon, some extremely remote modeled catastrophic events, or series of catastrophic events, could be of sufficient size to cause OneBeacon to become insolvent, which could adversely effect our financial condition and results of operations. We also have significant exposure to a major earthquake in California or Japan and windstorm damage in Northern Europe, the United States Atlantic Coast (i.e., Massachusetts to Florida) and the United States Gulf Coast region (i.e., Florida to Texas). In addition, we are exposed to losses from terrorist attacks, such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Increases in the value of insured property, the effects of inflation and changes in cyclical weather patterns may increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. Claims from catastrophic events could reduce our earnings and cause substantial volatility in our results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year and adversely affect our financial condition. Our ability to write new insurance and reinsurance policies could also be impacted as a result of corresponding reductions in our surplus levels. We manage our exposure to catastrophic losses by limiting the aggregate insured value of policies in geographic areas with exposure to catastrophic events and by estimating a PML for many different catastrophe scenarios and by buying reinsurance. To manage and analyze aggregate insured values and PML, we use a variety of tools, including catastrophe modeling software packages. Our estimates of PML are dependent on many variables, including assumptions about the demand surge and storm surge, loss adjustment expenses, insurance-to-value and storm intensity in the aftermath of weather-related catastrophes utilized to model the event, the relationship of the actual event to the modeled event and the quality of data provided to us by ceding companies (in the case of our reinsurance operations). Accordingly, if our assumptions about the variables are incorrect, the losses we might incur 36 from an actual catastrophe could be materially higher than our expectation of losses generated from modeled catastrophe scenarios and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements. Additionally, we may be unable to collect all amounts due from our reinsurers under our existing reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements. We attempt to limit our risk of loss through reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements. Retrocessional arrangements refer to reinsurance purchased by a reinsurer to cover its own risks assumed from primary ceding companies. The availability and cost of reinsurance and retrocessional protection is subject to market conditions, which are outside of our control. As a result, we may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through these arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are not relieved of our obligation to our policyholders or ceding companies by purchasing reinsurance. Accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurance and retrocessions in the event that a reinsurer is unable to pay amounts owed to us as a result of a deterioration in its financial condition. A number of reinsurers in the industry experienced such a deterioration in the aftermath of the 2001 terrorist attacks and the active 2005 hurricane season. It is possible that one or more of our reinsurers will be significantly adversely affected by future significant loss events, causing them to be unable to pay amounts owed to us. We also may be unable to recover amounts due under our reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements if our reinsurers choose to withhold payment due to a dispute or other factors beyond our control. Our loss reserves may be inadequate to cover our ultimate liability for losses and as a result our financial results could be adversely affected. We are required to maintain adequate reserves to cover our estimated ultimate liabilities for loss and loss adjustment expenses. Loss and LAE reserves are typically comprised of (1) case reserves for claims reported and (2) IBNR reserves for losses that have occurred but for which claims have not yet been reported, or IBNR, which include a provision for expected future development on case reserves. These reserves are estimates based on actuarial and statistical projections of what we believe the settlement and administration of claims will cost based on facts and circumstances then known to us. Because of the uncertainties that surround estimating loss and LAE reserves, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate and actual claims and claim expenses paid might exceed our reserves due to the uncertainties that surround estimating loss and LAE reserves. If we determine in the future that our reserves are insufficient to cover our actual loss and LAE, we would have to strengthen our reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For further discussion of our loss and LAE, including our asbestos and environmental reserves, see "Loss and Loss Adjustment Expenses" in "CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES" in Item 7. We may not maintain favorable financial strength or creditworthiness ratings which could adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Third party rating agencies assess and rate the financial strength, including claims-paying ability, of insurers and reinsurers. These ratings are based upon criteria established by the rating agencies and are subject to revision at any time at the sole discretion of the agencies. Some of the criteria relate to general economic conditions and other circumstances outside the rated company's control. These financial strength ratings are used by policyholders, agents and brokers as an important means of assessing the suitability of insurers as business counterparties and have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. These financial strength ratings do not refer to our ability to meet non-insurance obligations and are not a recommendation to purchase or discontinue any policy or contract issued by us or to buy, hold or sell our securities. Rating agencies periodically evaluate us to confirm that we continue to meet the criteria of the ratings previously assigned to us. See "RATINGS" in Item 1 for a summary of financial strength ratings on our significant subsidiaries and creditworthiness ratings on our financial instruments. A downgrade or withdrawal of our financial strength ratings could severely limit or prevent our insurance subsidiaries from writing new insurance or reinsurance policies or renewing existing insurance policies, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A downgrade or withdrawal of our creditworthiness ratings could severely limit our ability to raise new debt or could make new debt more costly and/or have more restrictive conditions. 37 Additionally, the majority of White Mountains Re's assumed reinsurance contracts contain optional cancellation, commutation and/or funding provisions that would be triggered if A.M. Best and/or S&P were to downgrade the financial strength ratings of either Folksamerica or Sirius International below "A-" or if the surplus of Folksamerica or Sirius International were to substantially decrease (generally, in excess of 20%). A client may choose to exercise these rights depending on, among other things, the reasons for such a downgrade, the extent of the downgrade, the prevailing market conditions, the degree of unexpired coverage, and the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage. We cannot predict in advance how many of our clients would actually exercise such rights or what effect such cancellations would have on our financial condition, results of operations and/or liquidity, but such an effect could be materially adverse. Our debt, preferred stock and related service obligations could adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $1,193 million face value of indebtedness, $300 million face value of mandatorily redeemable preferred stock and $250 million face value of non-cumulative perpetual preference shares outstanding. In connection with the OneBeacon Offering, we established and funded trusts that are solely dedicated to the payment of dividends and redemption amounts of our outstanding mandatorily redeemable preferred stock with a deposit of U.S. government securities. Our ability to meet our debt and related service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulation. We cannot be certain that our earnings will be sufficient to allow us to pay the principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If we do not have enough cash, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more cash or sell equity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We could incur additional indebtedness and issue additional preferred stock in the future. To the extent new debt, new preferred stock and other obligations are added to our and our subsidiaries' current debt and preferred stock levels, the risks described in the previous paragraph would increase. Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or losses which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Any increase in interest rates or volatility in the equity and debt markets could result in significant losses in the fair value of our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio consists of fixed maturity securities, short-term investments, common equity securities and other investments such as hedge funds, limited partnerships and private equities. Our investment selections are designed to maximize after-tax, total risk-adjusted return over the long term; however, investing entails substantial risks. We cannot assure you that we will achieve our investment objectives, and our investment performance may vary substantially over time. Investment returns are an important part of our growth in book value, and fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could impair our results of operations or financial condition. A significant period of time normally elapses between the receipt of insurance premiums and the disbursement of insurance claims. During this time, we generate investment income, consisting primarily of interest earned on fixed maturity investments and dividends earned on equity securities, by investing our capital as well as insurance premiums allocated to support unpaid loss and LAE reserves. We also recognize unrealized investment gains and losses on the securities we hold in our investment portfolio and we generate investment gains and losses from sales of securities from our investment portfolio. The investment income and fair market value of our investment portfolio are affected by general economic and market conditions, including fluctuations in interest rates and volatility in the stock market. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we attempt to manage the risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to effectively mitigate interest rate sensitivity. In particular, a significant increase in interest rates could result in significant losses, realized or unrealized, in the fair value of our investment portfolio and, consequently, could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. In addition, we are exposed to changes in the level or volatility of equity prices that affect the value of securities or instruments that derive their value from a particular equity security, a basket of equity securities or a stock index. Further, because a portion of our investment portfolio is invested in securities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar, the value of our portfolio is sensitive to changes in foreign currency rates. These conditions are outside of our control and could adversely affect the value of our investments and our results of operations and financial condition. 38 The property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries are highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively in the future. The property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries are highly competitive and have, from time to time, experienced severe price competition. OneBeacon competes with numerous regional and national insurance companies, including The St. Paul Travelers Companies, Inc., Zurich Financial Services Group, CNA Financial Corporation, Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc., The Hanover Insurance Group, Inc., W.R. Berkley Corporation, The Chubb Corporation, The Progressive Corporation, Allstate Insurance Company, Liberty Mutual, American International Group, Inc. and the regional Farm Bureaus. White Mountains Re competes with numerous reinsurance companies throughout the world, including ACE Limited, Arch Capital Group Ltd., Endurance Specialty Holdings Ltd., Everest Re Group, Ltd., Hannover Ruckversicherung AG, Lloyd's of London, Munich Re Group, Partner Re Ltd., Platinum Underwriters Holdings Ltd., Renaissance Re Holdings Ltd., Swiss Re Group, Transatlantic Holdings, Inc., XL Capital Ltd and General Reinsurance Corporation. Esurance competes with national and regional personal automobile insurance companies, though Esurance's main competition comes from other direct writers like Progressive, GEICO, and 21st Century. Many of these competitors have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do and have established long-term and continuing business relationships throughout the insurance industry, which can be a significant competitive advantage for them. The agents upon whom OneBeacon relies compete with direct writers of insurance, who are often able to offer substantial discounts in pricing as compared to OneBeacon's insurance products. If OneBeacon's agents experience increased competition from direct writers of insurance, we in turn could be adversely affected if OneBeacon's agents are unable to maintain a competitive position in their respective markets. In addition, substantial new capital and competitors have entered the reinsurance market in recent years, and we expect to face further competition in the future. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, our insurance and reinsurance businesses may be adversely affected and we may not be able to compete effectively in the future. We may suffer losses from unfavorable outcomes from litigation and other legal proceedings. In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to litigation and other legal proceedings as part of the claims process, the outcomes of which are uncertain. We maintain reserves for these legal proceedings as part of our loss and LAE reserves. We also maintain separate reserves for legal proceedings that are not related to the claims process. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more legal matters, our ultimate liability may be in excess of amounts we have currently reserved for and such additional amounts may be material to our results of operations and financial condition. For a description of our material legal proceedings, see "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number and size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance and reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. Regulation may restrict our ability to operate. The insurance and reinsurance industries are subject to extensive regulation under U.S., state and foreign laws. Governmental agencies have broad administrative power to regulate many aspects of the insurance business, which include premium rates, marketing practices, advertising, policy forms and capital adequacy. These governmental agencies are concerned primarily with the protection of policyholders rather than shareholders. Insurance laws and regulations impose restrictions on the amount and type of investments, prescribe solvency standards that must be met and maintained and require the maintenance of reserves. In our insurance underwriting, we rely heavily upon information gathered from third parties such as credit report agencies and other data aggregators. The use of this information is also highly regulated and any changes to the current regulatory structure could materially affect how we underwrite and price premiums. Changes in laws and regulations may restrict our ability to operate and/or have an adverse effect upon the profitability of our business within a given jurisdiction. For example, legislation has been passed in Florida that significantly changes the reinsurance protection provided by the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund to companies that write business in Florida. The new legislation also contains a provision that will disallow insurers that write homeowners insurance elsewhere in the United States to write automobile insurance in Florida unless they also write homeowners insurance in Florida. The impact of the new legislation, which could be adverse, upon White Mountains' insurance and reinsurance business in Florida cannot be determined until regulations interpreting the 39 legislation are promulgated. In addition, state and Federal legislation has been proposed to establish catastrophe funds and underwriting in coastal areas which could impact our business. In recent years we have successfully created shareholder value through acquisitions and dispositions of insurance and reinsurance entities. We may not be able to continue to create shareholder value through such transactions in the future. In the past several years, we have completed numerous acquisitions and dispositions of insurance and reinsurance entities, many of which have contributed significantly to our growth in tangible book value. Failure to identify and complete future acquisition and disposition opportunities could limit our ability to achieve our target returns. Even if we were to identify and complete future acquisition opportunities, there is no assurance that such acquisitions will ultimately achieve their anticipated benefits. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after 2016. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after 2016. We have received a standard assurance from the Bermuda Minister of Finance, under Bermuda's Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate, duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to us or to any of our operations or our shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance's assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. In the event that we become subject to any Bermuda tax after such date, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in tax laws or tax treaties may cause more of the income of certain non-U.S. companies in our group to become subject to taxes in the United States. The taxable income of our U.S. subsidiaries is subject to U.S. Federal, state and local income taxes and other taxes. The income of the non-U.S. companies in our group is generally not subject to tax in the United States other than withholding taxes on interest and dividends. Certain of our non-U.S. companies are eligible for the benefits of tax treaties between the United States and other countries. We believe our non-U.S. companies will continue to be eligible for treaty benefits. However, it is possible that factual changes or changes to U.S. tax laws or changes to tax treaties that presently apply to our non-U.S. companies could impact income subject to tax in the United States. Similarly, changes to the applicable tax laws, treaties or regulations of other countries could subject the income of members of our group to higher rates of tax outside the United States. We have significant foreign operations that expose us to certain additional risks, including foreign currency risks and political risk. White Mountains Re, in particular Sirius International and WMRe (Bermuda), conducts a significant portion of its business outside of the United States. As a result, a substantial portion of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and are therefore subject to foreign currency risk. Our foreign currency risk cannot be eliminated entirely and significant changes in foreign exchange rates may adversely affect our financial condition or our results of operations. Our foreign operations are also subject to legal, political and operational risks that may be greater than those present in the United States. As a result, our operations at these foreign locations could be temporarily or permanently disrupted. We depend on our key personnel to manage our business effectively and they may be difficult to replace. Our performance substantially depends on the efforts and abilities of our management team and other executive officers and key employees. Furthermore, much of our competitive advantage is based on the expertise, experience and know-how of our key management personnel. We do not have fixed term employment agreements with any of our key employees nor key man life insurance and the loss of one or more of these key employees could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success also depends on the ability to hire and retain additional personnel. Difficulty in hiring or retaining personnel could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 40 Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to shareholders. We are organized under the laws of Bermuda, and a portion of our assets will be located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for our shareholders to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us based on the civil liability provisions of the Federal or state securities laws of the United States, either in Bermuda or in countries other than the United States where we will have assets. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the Federal or state securities laws of the United States or would hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. Our corporate affairs are governed by the Companies Act. The Companies Act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, amalgamations, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. Generally, the duties of directors and officers of a Bermuda company are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Bermuda companies generally do not have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company and may only do so in limited circumstances. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under Bermuda law. The Bermuda courts, however, would ordinarily be expected to permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of a company to remedy a wrong to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company or illegal, or would result in the violation of the company's memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by a Bermuda court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or, for instance, where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of the company's shareholders than that which actually approved it. When the affairs of a company are being conducted in a manner that is oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some part of the shareholders, one or more shareholders may apply to the Supreme Court of Bermuda, which may make such order as it sees fit, including an order regulating the conduct of the company's affairs in the future or ordering the purchase of the shares of any shareholders by other shareholders or by the company. Additionally, under our bye-laws and as permitted by Bermuda law, each shareholder has waived any claim or right of action against our directors or officers for any action taken by directors or officers in the performance of their duties, except for actions involving fraud or dishonesty. In addition, the rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Bermuda law are not as clearly established as under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in jurisdictions in the United States, particularly the State of Delaware. Therefore, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States. The reinsurance business historically has been cyclical and, in the future, we expect to experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates, terms and conditions. Historically, reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity, general economic conditions and other factors. The supply of reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the level of insured losses and the level of industry surplus which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return earned in the reinsurance industry. As a result, the reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excess underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium rate levels. For example, the industry experienced a soft casualty market of lower prices and less favorable terms from 1997 to 2001 during which profitability suffered while the losses incurred from the 2005 U.S. hurricanes triggered price increases. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers significantly affect the reinsurance industry cycle. Any of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable contract terms, fewer submissions for our underwriting capacity and potential regulatory response. We expect to continue to experience the effects of the industry's cyclicality. We are largely dependent upon our ceding companies' evaluation of risk. White Mountains Re, like other reinsurance companies that write treaty reinsurance, generally does not evaluate separately each of the individual risks assumed under our reinsurance contracts. As such, we are largely dependent upon the cedents' original underwriting decisions. We are subject to the risk that the cedents may not have adequately or accurately evaluated the risks that they have insured, and we have reinsured, and that the premiums 41 ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. If our reserves are insufficient to cover our actual loss and LAE arising from our treaty reinsurance business, we would have to strengthen our reserves and incur charges to our earnings. These charges could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have surety bonds in Latin America and write credit and bond reinsurance that could expose us to an economic downturn, or changes to the regulatory or legal environment, in certain countries and regions as a whole. White Mountains, through Folksamerica, has run-off operations that include a material amount of Latin American facultative surety exposure (our "Surety Book"). Surety bonding describes a class of business where insurance companies guarantee various contractual commitments assumed by contractors and other businesses. The majority of Folksamerica's Surety Book is comprised of performance bonds, which is insurance obtained by service providers, such as construction firms, to protect against their failure to complete service engagements according to contractual terms. As of January 31, 2008, the maximum certificate or bonding value in our Surety Book (a measurement which does not factor in the percentage to completion of any of the projects supported by the bonds) was approximately $750 million. Approximately 81% of our Surety Book is represented by contracts in Colombia and 13% is represented in Brazil. While our Surety Book is comprised of a large number of contracts with relatively small individual exposures, a severe economic downturn that adversely affects the capital supply or business environment in Colombia or Brazil individually, or Latin America generally, or a significant shift in the regulatory or legal environments governing access to collateral in these markets, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. An example of this type of a regional downturn is the Asian financial crisis that occurred in the mid-to-late 1990s principally affecting Thailand, South Korea and Hong Kong. In addition, White Mountains Re, through Sirius International, writes credit and bond reinsurance, mostly on companies with worldwide operations. Most debtors are based in Europe, with companies in Germany, France and Italy representing approximately 40% of White Mountains Re's exposure. The bulk of the business is traditional short term commercial credit insurance, covering pre-agreed domestic and export sales of goods and services with typical coverage periods of 60 to 120 days. Losses under these policies (protection of undisputed debts against declared insolvency and protracted default) are closely correlated to reductions in a respective country's gross national product. As such, a recession that occurs in a relatively short period of time and impacts multiple countries could result in higher than expected losses. As of December 31, 2007, White Mountains Re's contractual loss exposure for this business is approximately $1 billion. However, because of the short-term nature of this business, ceding companies can actively adjust credit exposures and substantially mitigate the effect of an economic crisis or a major bankruptcy. The limit of liability given above does not consider the positive impact of dynamic limit management nor does it include the credit for recoveries. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the date of this report, the Company had no unresolved comments from the Commission staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 