Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe information contained in this report may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. See “FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS” (page 96) for specific important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements. The Company’s actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below.Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or losses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Adverse changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity markets, debt markets or market volatility could result in significant losses to the fair value of our investment portfolio and could generate significant losses in our life reinsurance business.Our investment portfolio consists of fixed maturity investments, short-term investments, common equity securities and other long-term investments, including hedge funds, private equity funds, direct investments in privately held common and convertible securities and the OneBeacon Surplus Notes. We invest to maximize long-term total returns (after-tax) while taking prudent levels of risk and maintaining a diversified portfolio subject to our investment guidelines and various regulatory restrictions. However, investing entails substantial risks. We may not achieve our investment objectives, and our investment performance may vary substantially over time. Investment returns are an important part of our strategy to grow adjusted book value per share, and fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could impair our results of operations and financial condition.Both the investment income we generate and the fair market value of our investment portfolio are affected by general economic and market conditions, including fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, debt market levels, equity market levels and market volatility. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. In particular, a significant increase in interest rates could result in significant losses in the fair value of our investment portfolio and, consequently, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to changes in equity markets. A significant decline in the equity markets such as that experienced from September 2008 to March 2009 could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Because a portion of our investment portfolio is invested in securities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar, the value of our portfolio is sensitive to changes in foreign currency rates. We are also exposed to changes in the volatility levels of various investment markets. The underlying conditions prompting such changes are outside of our control and could adversely affect the value of our investments and our results of operations and financial condition. We also hold investments, such as hedge funds, private equity funds and surplus notes that are not regularly traded in active investment markets and may be illiquid. These investments can experience greater volatility in their returns or valuation, which could impair our financial performance.Our life reinsurance business has reinsured the risk related to a shortfall between the account value and the guaranteed value that must be paid in respect of certain Japanese variable annuity contracts. We use derivative instruments to mitigate the market risks associated with changes in the fair value of these guarantees. These derivative instruments include put options, interest rate swaps, total return swaps and futures contracts on major equity indices, currency pairs and government bonds. However, these derivatives may not fully mitigate our exposure to the changes in the fair value of the guarantees. For example, WM Life Re reported significant losses in 2008 because the increase in the fair value of its liabilities exceeded the increase in the fair value of the related derivative instruments.The fair value of our life reinsurance contracts and the related derivative instruments is significantly affected by general economic and market conditions such as equity market returns and volatility, interest rate fluctuations and foreign currency exchange rates. These conditions are outside of our control and could generate significant losses that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Unpredictable catastrophic events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.We write insurance policies that cover unpredictable catastrophic events. Covered unpredictable catastrophic events include natural disasters, such as hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, floods, wildfires and severe winter weather, and other disasters such as terrorist attacks, explosions and infrastructure failures. We have significant exposure to a major earthquake or series of earthquakes in California, the Midwestern United States, Japan and Latin America and to windstorm damage in Northern Europe, the Northeast United States, the United States Atlantic Coast (i.e., Massachusetts to Florida) and the United States Gulf Coast (i.e., Florida to Texas) regions. In addition, we are exposed to losses from terrorist attacks, such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001. We are also exposed to losses caused by the same types of catastrophic events in other lines of business such as marine, aviation, trade credit and accident and health.28The extent of catastrophe losses is a function of the number of events, the severity of each event and total amount of insured exposure affected by the event. Increases in the value and concentration of insured property or insured employees, the effects of inflation, changes in weather patterns and increased terrorism could increase the future frequency and/or severity of claims from catastrophic events. Claims from catastrophic events could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to write new insurance policies could also be impacted as a result of corresponding reductions in our capital levels.We seek to manage our exposure to catastrophic losses by limiting the aggregate insured value of policies in geographic areas with exposure to catastrophic events by estimating a PML for many different catastrophe scenarios and by buying reinsurance. To manage and analyze aggregate insured values and PML, we use a variety of tools, including external and internal catastrophe modeling software packages. Our estimates of PML are dependent on many variables, including assumptions about the demand surge and storm surge, loss adjustment expenses, insurance-to-value and storm intensity in the aftermath of weather- related catastrophes utilized to model the event, the relationship of the actual event to the modeled event and the quality of data provided to us by ceding companies (in the case of our reinsurance operations). Accordingly, if our assumptions about the variables are incorrect, the losses we might incur from an actual catastrophe could be materially higher than our expectation of losses generated from modeled catastrophe scenarios and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.The property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries are highly competitive and cyclical and we may not be able to compete effectively in the future.The property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries are highly competitive and have historically been cyclical, experiencing periods of severe price competition and less selective underwriting standards (“soft markets”) followed by periods of relatively high prices and more selective underwriting standards (“hard markets”). In general terms, OneBeacon competes in one or more of its businesses with most of the large multi-line insurance companies, most of the specialty insurance companies and various local and regional insurance companies. OneBeacon also competes with new companies formed to enter insurance markets. Increased competition could result in fewer submissions, lower premium rates and less favorable policy terms and conditions, which could adversely impact our profit margins, net income and book value. Sirius Group competes with numerous reinsurance companies throughout the world and Syndicate 1945 also competes with other Lloyd’s syndicates and London Market Companies. In addition, a number of Sirius Group’s competitors have recently announced acquisition and merger plans. These acquisition/merger plans may have effects on the reinsurance market in the future, including items such as the availability of displaced underwriting teams and/or submission line share allocations. We cannot predict how these mergers will impact Sirius Group’s and/or its competitors’ ability to compete in the worldwide reinsurance marketplace.OneBeacon could fail to build and sustain the kind of business relationships, including distribution relationships that are necessary to compete. OneBeacon competes by offering its products through a select network of independent agents, regional and national brokers, wholesalers and managing general agencies, or “MGA”s.If OneBeacon’s distribution partners find that its competitor insurers offer better priced coverage, OneBeacon may be unable to maintain a competitive position, which in turn may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, consolidation among brokers and agents may make it more difficult for OneBeacon to distribute its products. Soft primary insurance market conditions could lead to a significant reduction in reinsurance premium rates, less favorable contract terms and fewer submissions for our reinsurance underwriting capacity. The supply of reinsurance is also related to the level of reinsured losses and the level of industry capital which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return earned in the reinsurance industry. As a result, the reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excess underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted improvements in reinsurance rate levels and terms and conditions. For example, the industry experienced soft casualty market conditions of lower prices and less favorable terms from 1997 to 2001 during which profitability suffered, while the losses incurred from the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and the 2005 U.S. hurricanes triggered price increases. In addition, in recent years the persistent low interest rate environment and ease of entry into the reinsurance sector has led to increased competition from third party capital in the property catastrophe excess reinsurance line. This alternative capital provides collateralized property catastrophe protection in the form of catastrophe bonds, industry loss warranties, sidecars and other vehicles that facilitate the ability for non-reinsurance entities, such as hedge funds and pension funds, to compete for property catastrophe excess reinsurance business outside of the traditional treaty market. We have observed reduced pricing and/or reduced shares in certain property catastrophe excess reinsurance markets as a result.We expect to continue to experience the effects of the insurance and reinsurance industries’ cyclicality. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position throughout soft and hard market cycles, our insurance and reinsurance businesses may be adversely affected and we may not be able to compete effectively in the future.29Our loss and LAE reserves may be inadequate to cover our ultimate liability for losses and as a result our financial results could be adversely affected.We must maintain reserves adequate to cover our estimated ultimate liabilities for loss and LAE. Loss and LAE reserves are typically comprised of (1) case reserves for claims reported and (2) IBNR reserves for losses that have occurred but for which claims have not yet been reported and for expected future development on case reserves. Loss and LAE reserves are estimates of what we believe the settlement and administration of claims will cost based on facts and circumstances then known to us. These estimates involve actuarial and claims assessments, and require us to make a number of assumptions about future events that are subject to unexpected changes and are beyond our control, such as future trends in claim severity, frequency, inflation, legislative and judicial changes and other factors. Because of uncertainties associated with estimating ultimate loss and LAE reserves, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate. In the event that our reserves become insufficient to cover our actual losses and LAE, we may need to add to our reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For further discussion of our loss and LAE reserves, including our asbestos and environmental reserves, see “CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES - Loss and LAE Reserves” on page 76.We may not maintain favorable financial strength or creditworthiness ratings, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct business.Third-party rating agencies assess and rate the financial strength, including claims-paying ability, of insurers and reinsurers. These ratings are based upon criteria established by the rating agencies and are subject to revision at any time at the sole discretion of the agencies. Some of the criteria relate to general economic conditions and other circumstances outside the rated company’s control. These financial strength ratings are used by policyholders, agents and brokers to assess the suitability of insurers and reinsurers as business counterparties, and are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies.The maintenance of an “A-” or better financial strength rating from A.M. Best and/or Standard & Poor’s is particularly important to our ability to write new or renewal property and casualty insurance and reinsurance business in most markets, while the maintenance of an “AA” or better financial strength rating from Standard & Poor’s is particularly important to BAM’s ability to write municipal bond insurance. General creditworthiness ratings are used by existing or potential investors to assess the likelihood of repayment on a particular debt issue. The maintenance of an investment grade creditworthiness rating (e.g., “BBB-” or better from Standard & Poor’s, “Baa3” or better from Moody’s and “BBB-” or better from Fitch) is important to our ability to raise new debt with acceptable terms. We believe that strong creditworthiness ratings are important factors that provide better financial flexibility when issuing new debt or restructuring existing debt.Rating agencies periodically evaluate us to confirm that we continue to meet the criteria of the ratings previously assigned to us. See “RATINGS” on page 27 for a summary of financial strength ratings on our significant insurance and reinsurance operating subsidiaries. A downgrade, withdrawal or negative watch/outlook of our financial strength ratings could severely limit or prevent our operating subsidiaries from writing new policies or renewing existing policies, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A downgrade, withdrawal or negative watch/outlook of our creditworthiness ratings could limit our ability to raise new debt or could make new debt more costly and/or have more restrictive conditions.If BAM does not pay some or all of the interest and principal due on the BAM Surplus Notes, our adjusted book value per share, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.As of December 31, 2015, White Mountains owns $503 million in BAM Surplus Notes and has accrued $90 million in interest due thereon. No payment of the interest or principal on the BAM Surplus Notes may be made without the approval of the New York State Department of Financial Services. In addition, BAM’s ability to pay the interest and principal on the BAM Surplus Notes is dependent upon, among other things, whether BAM collects sufficient premiums and member surplus contributions (“MSC”). Interest payments on the BAM Surplus Notes are due quarterly but are subject to deferral, without penalty or default and without compounding, for repayment in the future. No principal is due on the BAM Surplus Notes prior to their stated maturity of 2042. BAM has the right at any time to prepay principal in whole or in part.BAM’s premiums and MSC are dependent on several factors, many of which are beyond BAM’s control. BAM’s premiums and MSC are dependent upon the size of the primary municipal bond market, investors’ demand for municipal bond insurance, which generally fluctuates with changes in credit spreads, and BAM’s share of the municipal bond insurance market. Pricing is also driven by credit spreads. Credit spread is the incremental yield that investors demand for taking credit risk. When the difference in credit spreads is narrow between higher and lower rated bonds, municipal bond insurance provides less cost savings to issuers than it would during periods when the difference in credit spreads between higher and lower rated bonds is wide, which results in decreased demand and/or lower premium levels for municipal bond insurance. BAM’s pricing, and therefore its premiums, are also affected by competition. BAM competes with Assured and National in a highly competitive marketplace.30During 2015, BAM’s gross written premiums were $26 million and MSC collected were $29 million. BAM must grow these amounts in the future to be able to pay all of the amounts due on the BAM Surplus Notes. If BAM does not pay some or all of the amounts due on the BAM Surplus Notes for any reason, our adjusted book value per share, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted.Our reinsurance operations are largely dependent upon ceding companies’ evaluation of risk.Sirius Group, like other reinsurance companies that write treaty reinsurance, generally does not evaluate separately each of the assumed individual insurance risks under our reinsurance contracts. As such, we are largely dependent upon the cedants’ original underwriting decisions. We are subject to the risk that the cedants may not have adequately or accurately evaluated the risks that they have insured, and we have reinsured, and that the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. If our reserves are insufficient to cover our actual loss and LAE arising from our treaty reinsurance business, we would have to strengthen our reserves and incur charges to our earnings. These charges could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We have significant foreign operations that expose us to certain additional risks, including foreign currency risks and political risk.Sirius Group conducts a significant portion of its business outside of the United States. As a result, a significant portion of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and are therefore subject to foreign currency risk. Significant changes in foreign exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Our foreign operations are also subject to legal, political and operational risks that may be greater than those present in the United States. As a result, our operations at these foreign locations could be temporarily or permanently disrupted.Our debt, preferred stock, unsecured letters of credit and related service obligations could adversely affect our business.As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately $846 million face value of indebtedness, including $404 million at Sirius Group, and $250 million face value of non-cumulative perpetual preference shares outstanding at Sirius Group. We also had an undrawn $440 million revolving credit facilities at the Company and OneBeacon, and $125 million of issued but undrawn unsecured letters of credit (“LOCs”) at Sirius Group. Our ability to meet our debt, preferred stock, unsecured LOCs and related service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.We are also subject to restrictive financial covenants contained in both White Mountains’s and OneBeacon’s revolving credit facilities. These covenants require us to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy certain financial condition tests. These covenants can restrict us in several ways, including our ability to incur additional indebtedness. An uncured breach of these covenants could result in an event of default under our revolving credit facilities which would allow lenders to declare any amounts owed under our revolving credit facilities to be immediately due and payable. In addition, a default under our revolving credit facilities could occur if certain of our subsidiaries fail to pay principal and interest on a credit facility, mortgage or similar debt agreement (collectively, “covered debt”), or fail to otherwise comply with obligations in such covered debt agreements where such a default gives the holder of the covered debt the right to accelerate at least $75 million of principal amount of covered debt. A failure by OneBeacon Ltd. or its subsidiaries to pay principal and interest on covered debt or to comply with obligations in covered debt agreements that results in the acceleration of at least $75 million of principal amount of covered debt could trigger the acceleration of the OBH Senior Notes. A failure by Sirius Group to pay principal and interest on covered debt or to comply with obligations in covered debt agreements that results in the acceleration of at least $25 million of principal amount of covered debt could trigger the acceleration of Sirius Group’s senior notes.We are also subject to restrictive financial covenants contained in our unsecured LOCs at Sirius Group. These covenants require us to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy certain financial condition tests. These covenants can restrict us in several ways, including our ability to incur additional indebtedness and/or issue additional unsecured LOCs. An uncured breach of these covenants could result in an event of default under our unsecured LOCs, which would allow providers to demand cash collateralization of the unsecured LOCs and/or cancel and return the issued LOCs. In addition, a default under the unsecured LOCs could occur if certain of our subsidiaries fail to pay principal and interest on covered debt, or fail to otherwise comply with obligations in such covered debt agreements where such a default gives the holder of the covered debt the right to accelerate at least $75 million of principal amount of covered debt.If we do not have enough cash to repay accelerated debt or cash collateralize unsecured LOCs, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt or unsecured LOCs, sell assets, borrow more cash or sell equity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on terms acceptable to us, if at all.We could incur additional indebtedness or issue additional preferred stock, issue additional unsecured LOCs or other hybrid instruments in the future. To the extent new debt, preferred stock, unsecured LOCs, hybrid instruments or other obligations are added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt, preferred stock and unsecured LOC levels, the risks described in the previous paragraph would increase.31We may not successfully alleviate risk through reinsurance arrangements. Additionally, we may not collect all amounts due from our reinsurers under our existing reinsurance arrangements.We attempt to limit our risk of loss through reinsurance arrangements. The availability and cost of reinsurance protection is subject to market conditions, which are outside of our control. In addition, the coverage provided by our reinsurance arrangements may be inadequate to cover our future liabilities. As a result, we may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through these arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Purchasing reinsurance does not relieve us of our underlying obligations to policyholders or ceding companies, so any inability to collect amounts due from reinsurers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Inability to collect amounts due from reinsurers can result from a number of scenarios, including: (1) reinsurers choosing to withhold payment due to a dispute or other factors beyond our control; and (2) reinsurers becoming unable to pay amounts owed to us as a result of a deterioration in their financial condition. While we regularly review the financial condition of our reinsurers and currently believe their condition is strong, it is possible that one or more of our reinsurers will be adversely affected by future significant losses or economic events, causing them to be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us.In addition, due to factors such as the price or availability of reinsurance coverage, we sometimes decide to increase the amount of risk we retain by purchasing less reinsurance. Such determinations have the effect of increasing our financial exposure to losses associated with such risks and, in the event of significant losses associated with a given risk, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We are a holding company with no direct operations, and our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us is restricted by law.As a holding company with no direct operations, we rely in large part on dividends, tax sharing payments and other permitted payments from our subsidiaries to pay our expenses, interest on debt and dividends to shareholders. Our subsidiaries may not be able to generate cash flow sufficient to pay a dividend or distribute funds to us. In addition, under the insurance laws of the jurisdictions in which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are domiciled, an insurer or reinsurer is restricted with respect to the timing or the amount of dividends it may pay without prior approval by regulatory authorities.Our top tier regulated insurance and reinsurance operating subsidiaries have the ability to pay $48 million of dividends to us without prior approval of regulatory authorities during 2016. As of December 31, 2015, the Company and its intermediate holding companies had $74 million of net unrestricted cash, short-term investments and fixed maturity investments, $292 million of common equity securities and $18 million of other long-term investments outside of OneBeacon and Sirius Group and $375 million available to be drawn from our revolving credit facility. In addition, as of December 31, 2015, OneBeacon Ltd. and its intermediate holding companies had $65 million of net unrestricted cash, short-term investments and fixed maturity investments and $55 million of common equity securities outside of its regulated and unregulated operating subsidiaries and $65 million available to be drawn from OneBeacon’s credit facility. Sirius Group and its intermediate holding companies had $94 million of net unrestricted cash, short-term investments and fixed maturity investments outside of its regulated and unregulated insurance and reinsurance operating subsidiaries. See “Dividend Capacity” on page 64. Management believes that our cash balances, cash flows from operations and cash flows from investments are adequate to meet expected cash requirements for the foreseeable future on both a holding company and operating subsidiary level. However, if our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries cannot pay dividends, tax sharing and other permitted payments in future periods or if we contribute additional funds to fulfill our obligations under our life reinsurance contracts, we may have difficulty servicing our debt, paying dividends to shareholders and paying our holding company expenses. For additional information relating to insurance and reinsurance regulations governing our operations, see “Regulation” on page 22.32We may suffer losses from unfavorable outcomes from litigation and other legal proceedings.In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to litigation and other legal proceedings as part of the claims process, the outcomes of which are uncertain. We maintain reserves for claims-related legal proceedings as part of our loss and LAE reserves. Adverse outcomes are possible and could negatively impact our financial condition.Furthermore, as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number and size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued the affected insurance contracts. Examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to:•New theories of liability and disputes regarding medical causation with respect to certain diseases; •Claims related to data security breaches, information system failures or cyber-attacks; and •Claims related to blackouts caused by space weather. In addition, from time to time we are subject to legal proceedings that are not related to the claims process. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more non-claims legal matters, our ultimate liability may be in excess of amounts we have reserved and such additional amounts may be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, it is possible that these non-claims legal proceedings could result in equitable remedies or other unexpected outcomes that may materially impact our business or operations.Regulation may restrict our ability to operate.Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate. The primary goal of the regulation is the protection of policyholders rather than shareholders. For example, in order to protect insurer solvency, state insurance regulations impose restrictions on the amount and type of investments, establish detail minimum capital standards and require the maintenance of reserves. Our insurance underwriting is heavily dependent on information gathered from third parties such as insurance rating bureaus, highly regulated credit report agencies and other data aggregators. Regulatory changes related to the availability or use of this information could materially affect how we underwrite and price premiums.Changes in laws and regulations may restrict our ability to operate and/or have an adverse effect upon the profitability of our business within a given jurisdiction. For example, as a result of various state, federal and international regulatory efforts to modernize and harmonize insurer solvency regulations in the wake of the recent financial crisis, the states could further restrict allowable investments or increase our capital requirements, both of which could materially impact our business results and results of operations. In addition, U.S. Federal and state legislation has been proposed to establish catastrophe funds and underwriting in coastal areas which could impact our business.We may be unable to adequately maintain our systems and safeguard the security of our data, which may adverselyimpact our ability to operate our business and cause reputational harm and financial loss.Because our business and operations rely on secure and efficient information technology systems, we depend on our ability, and the ability of certain third parties, including vendors and business partners, to access our computer systems to perform necessary functions such as providing quotes and product pricing, billing and processing premiums, administering claims, and reporting our financial results. The functioning of these systems may be impacted by any number of events, including power outages, natural and manmade catastrophes, and cyber-attacks. In the event we are unable to access any of our systems, or any third party system that we rely upon, our ability to operate our business effectively may be significantly impaired. Our business also depends upon our ability to securely process, store, transmit and safeguard confidential and proprietary information that is in our possession. This information includes confidential information relating to our business, and personally identifiable information (“PII”) and protected health information (“PHI”) belonging to our employees, customers, claimants and business partners. Because our systems may be vulnerable to a variety of forms of unauthorized access that could result in a data breach, including hackers, computer viruses, and other cyber-attacks, as well as breaches that result from dishonest employees, errors by employees or lost or stolen computer devices, we may not be able to protect the confidentiality of such information.Third parties present an additional risk of cyber-related events. We outsource certain technological and business process functions to third-party providers. We rely on these third parties to maintain and store PII and PHI and other confidential information on their systems. We also routinely transmit such information by e-mail and other electronic means. Although we attempt to establish sufficient controls and secure capabilities to transmit such information and to prevent unauthorized disclosure, these controls may not be sufficient. Furthermore, third-party providers may not have appropriate controls in place to protect such information. 33Our computer systems have been and will continue to be the target of cyber-attacks, although we are not aware that we have experienced a material cybersecurity breach. We are also not aware of any third-party vendor having experienced a material cybersecurity breach that impacted our data. The risk of cyber-attack may increase, and we may experience more significant attacks in the future.The risks identified above could expose us to data breaches, disruptions of service, financial losses and significant increases in compliance costs and reputational harm to us, any of which could affect our business and results of operations. In addition, a data breach that involves the compromise of PII or PHI, could subject us to legal liability or regulatory action under data protection and privacy laws and regulations enacted by federal, state and foreign governments, or other regulatory bodies. As a result, our ability to conduct our business and our results of operations might be materially and adversely affected.We have successfully created shareholder value through acquisitions and dispositions of insurance and reinsurance entities. We may not be able to continue to create shareholder value through such transactions in the future.In past years, we have completed numerous acquisitions and dispositions of insurance and reinsurance entities, many of which have contributed significantly to our growth in adjusted book value. Failure to identify and complete future acquisition and disposition opportunities could limit our ability to achieve our target returns. Even if we were to identify and complete future acquisition or disposition opportunities, there is no assurance that such opportunities will ultimately achieve their anticipated benefits.We have significant deferred tax assets, which we may be unable to utilize if we do not generate sufficient future taxable income.We have a deferred tax asset of $131 million (net of a valuation allowance of $122 million) related to net operating loss carryforwards, capital loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards as of December 31, 2015 that is subject to carryforward limitations in the United States. We also have a deferred tax asset of $210 million (net of a valuation allowance of $140 million) related to net operating loss carryforwards and unrealized gains and losses in Luxembourg as of December 31, 2015 that is not subject to limitation. Utilization of these assets and other assets included in our worldwide net deferred tax asset of $145 million (net of a valuation allowance of $269 million) is dependent on generating sufficient future taxable income of the appropriate character (i.e. ordinary income or capital gains) in the appropriate jurisdiction. If it is determined that it is more likely than not that sufficient future taxable income will not be generated, we would be required to increase the valuation allowance in future periods, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We have significant deferred tax assets, which we may be unable to utilize pursuant to Swedish tax legislation.On January 1, 2013, new tax legislation became effective in Sweden that limits the deductibility of interest paid on certain intra-group debt instruments. Uncertainty exists with respect to the interpretation of the legislation. Adverse interpretation of the legislation could cause us to write down some or all of the $30 million in deferred tax assets related to intra-group debt instruments in our internal capital structure, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Changes in tax laws or tax treaties may cause more of the income of certain non-U.S. companies in our group to become subject to taxes in the United States.The taxable income of our U.S. subsidiaries is subject to U.S. federal, state and local income tax and other taxes. The income of the non-U.S. companies in our group is generally subject to a lower effective tax rate than that imposed by the United States. Certain of our non-U.S. companies are eligible for the benefits of tax treaties between the United States and other countries. We believe our non-U.S. companies will continue to be eligible for treaty benefits. However, it is possible that factual changes or changes to U.S. tax laws or changes to tax treaties that presently apply to our non-U.S. companies could increase income subject to tax, or the tax rate on income, in the United States. Similarly, changes to the applicable tax laws, treaties or regulations of other countries could subject the income of members of our group to higher rates of tax outside the United States.34The Company and our non-U.S. subsidiaries may become subject to U.S. tax, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our shareholders’ investments.The Company and our non-U.S. subsidiaries operate in a manner so that none of these companies should be subject to U.S. tax (other than U.S. excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premium income attributable to insuring or reinsuring U.S. risks and U.S. withholding tax on some types of U.S. source investment income), because none of these companies should be treated as engaged in a trade or business within the United States. However, because there is considerable uncertainty as to the activities that constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States, we cannot be certain that the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) will not contend successfully that the Company or its non-U.S. subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or business in the United States. If the Company or any of its non-U.S. subsidiaries were considered to be engaged in a trade or business in the United States, such entity could be subject to U.S. corporate income and branch profits taxes on the portion of its earnings effectively connected to such U.S. business, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.We depend on our key personnel to manage our business effectively and they may be difficult to replace.Our performance substantially depends on the efforts and abilities of our management team and other executive officers and key employees. Furthermore, much of our competitive advantage is based on the expertise, experience and know-how of our key management personnel. We do not have fixed term employment agreements with any of our key employees or key man life insurance and the loss of one or more of these key employees could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success also depends on the ability to hire and retain additional personnel. Difficulty in hiring or retaining personnel could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.We are exposed to credit risk in certain of our business operations.In addition to exposure to credit risk related to our investment portfolio and reinsurance recoverables, we are exposed to credit risk in other areas of our business operations.When policyholders purchase insurance policies from us through independent agents and brokers, the premiums are often first received by the independent agents and brokers, who then route premiums to us. In most jurisdictions, the premiums are deemed paid to us whether or not we receive them. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with amounts due from independent agents and brokers.Under many of our policies, our customers are responsible to reimburse us for an agreed-upon amount per claim. In these circumstances, we are exposed to credit risk because we are typically required under these policies to pay covered claims first and then seek reimbursement from our customers.We are exposed to credit risk in OneBeacon’s surety business, where we guarantee to a third party that our customer will satisfy certain performance obligations. We sometimes mitigate the surety customer credit risk by requiring customers to post collateral for some or all of their performance obligations, often in the form of pledged securities such as money market funds or letters of credit provided by banks. However, there is credit risk associated with any collateral - if we are holding collateral other than cash and our customer is unable to honor his or her obligations, we may be exposed to credit risks associated with pledged securities or the banks that issued the letter of credit. Economic downturns generally increase these credit risks. If credit risks materialize and control mechanisms like underwriting guidelines and collateral requirements are unsuccessful, we could be left with collateral that has little or no value.As a result, our exposure to the above credit risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to shareholders.We are organized under the laws of Bermuda, and a portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for our shareholders to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States, either in Bermuda or in countries other than the United States where we will have assets. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States or would hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws.35Our corporate affairs are governed by the Companies Act. The Companies Act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, amalgamations, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. Generally, the duties of directors and officers of a Bermuda company are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Bermuda companies generally do not have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company and may only do so in limited circumstances. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under Bermuda law. The Bermuda courts, however, would ordinarily be expected to permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of a company to remedy a wrong to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company or illegal, or would result in the violation of the company’s memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by a Bermuda court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against non-controlling shareholders or, for instance, where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of the company’s shareholders than that which actually approved it.When the affairs of a company are being conducted in a manner that is oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some part of the shareholders, one or more shareholders may apply to the Supreme Court of Bermuda, which may make such order as it sees fit, including an order regulating the conduct of the company’s affairs in the future or ordering the purchase of the shares of any shareholders by other shareholders or by the company. Additionally, under our bye-laws and as permitted by Bermuda law, each shareholder has waived any claim or right of action against our directors or officers for any action taken by directors or officers in the performance of their duties, except for actions involving fraud or dishonesty. In addition, the rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Bermuda law are not as clearly established as under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in jurisdictions in the United States, particularly the State of Delaware. Therefore, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States.We could be adversely affected if our controls designed to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective.Our business is highly dependent on our ability to successfully execute a large number of transactions, many of which are complex. These processes are often subject to internal guidelines and policies, and government regulation. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. If controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure, or damage to our reputation.1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsAs of the date of this report, the Company had no unresolved comments from the Commission staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act.