Item 1A. Risk Factors The information contained in this report may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. See “FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS” (page 98) for specific important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements. The Company’s actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. Unpredictable catastrophic events could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We write insurance and reinsurance policies that cover catastrophic events. Our policies cover unpredictable natural and other disasters, such as hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, floods, fires and explosions. In recent years, the frequency of major weather-related catastrophes has increased. Our exposure to catastrophic windstorm damage in the Northeastern United States is the largest single natural risk to our business. In the case of OneBeacon, some extremely remote modeled catastrophic events, or series of catastrophic events, could be of sufficient size to cause OneBeacon to become insolvent, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We also have significant exposure to a major earthquake in California or Japan and windstorm damage in Northern Europe, the United States Atlantic Coast (i.e., Massachusetts to Florida) and the United States Gulf Coast region (i.e., Florida to Texas). In addition, we are exposed to losses from terrorist attacks, such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Increases in the value of insured property, the effects of inflation and changes in cyclical weather patterns may increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. Claims from catastrophic events could reduce our earnings and cause substantial volatility in our results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year and adversely affect our financial condition. Our ability to write new insurance and reinsurance policies could also be impacted as a result of corresponding reductions in our surplus levels. We manage our exposure to catastrophic losses by limiting the aggregate insured value of policies in geographic areas with exposure to catastrophic events and by estimating a PML for many different catastrophe scenarios and by buying reinsurance. To manage and analyze aggregate insured values and PML, we use a variety of tools, including catastrophe modeling software packages. Our estimates of PML are dependent on many variables, including assumptions about the demand surge and storm surge, loss adjustment expenses, insurance-to-value and storm intensity in the aftermath of weather- related catastrophes utilized to model the event, the relationship of the actual event to the modeled event and the quality of data provided to us by ceding companies (in the case of our reinsurance operations). Accordingly, if our assumptions about the variables are incorrect, the losses we might incur from an actual catastrophe could be materially higher than our expectation of losses generated from modeled catastrophe scenarios and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 35 Table of Contents Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or losses which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Any adverse changes in interest or foreign currency exchange rates or volatility in the equity and debt markets could result in significant losses in the fair value of our investment portfolio and generate significant losses from our life reinsurance business. Our investment portfolio consists of fixed maturity securities, convertible fixed maturities, short-term investments, common equity securities and other investments such as hedge funds, limited partnerships and private equities. Our investment selections are designed to maximize after-tax, total risk-adjusted return over the long term; however, investing entails substantial risks. We cannot assure you that we will achieve our investment objectives, and our investment performance may vary substantially over time. Investment returns are an important part of our changes in book value, and fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could impair our results of operations or financial condition. A significant period of time normally elapses between the receipt of insurance premiums and the disbursement of insurance claims. During this time, we generate investment income, consisting primarily of interest earned on fixed maturity investments and dividends earned on equity securities, by investing our capital as well as insurance premiums allocated to support unpaid loss and LAE reserves. We also recognize unrealized investment gains and losses on the securities we hold in our investment portfolio and we generate investment gains and losses from sales of securities from our investment portfolio. The investment income and fair market value of our investment portfolio are affected by general economic and market conditions, including fluctuations in interest rates and volatility in the stock market. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we attempt to manage the risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to effectively mitigate interest rate sensitivity. In particular, a significant increase in interest rates could result in significant losses, realized or unrealized, in the fair value of our investment portfolio and, consequently, could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. In addition, we are exposed to changes in the level or volatility of equity prices that affect the value of securities or instruments that derive their value from a particular equity security, a basket of equity securities or a stock index. Further, because a portion of our investment portfolio is invested in securities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollar, the value of our portfolio is sensitive to changes in foreign currency rates. These conditions are outside of our control and could adversely affect the value of our investments and our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our life reinsurance business has assumed the risk related to a shortfall between the account value and the guaranteed value that must be paid by a ceding company to its annuitants or to its annuitants’ beneficiaries through reinsurance contracts that are carried at fair value in our financial statements. We also use derivative instruments that are carried at fair value in our financial statements to mitigate the market risks associated with changes in the fair value of the reinsured variable annuity guarantees. These derivative instruments include put options, interest rate swaps, and futures contracts on major equity indices, currency pairs and government bonds. However, these derivatives may not fully mitigate our exposure to the changes in the fair value of the reinsured variable annuity guarantees. For example, WM Life Re reported significant losses in 2008 from the net effect of the increase in the fair value of its variable annuity liabilities exceeding the increase in the fair value of the related derivative instruments. The fair value of our life reinsurance contracts and the related derivative instruments is significantly affected by general economic and market conditions such as equity market returns and volatility, interest rate fluctuations and foreign currency exchange. These conditions are outside of our control and could generate significant losses that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements. Additionally, we may be unable to collect all amounts due from our reinsurers under our existing reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements. We attempt to limit our risk of loss through reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements. Retrocessional arrangements refer to reinsurance purchased by a reinsurer to cover its own risks assumed from primary ceding companies. The availability and cost of reinsurance and retrocessional protection is subject to market conditions, which are outside of our control. In addition, the coverage under our reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements may be inadequate to cover our future liabilities. As a result, we may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through these arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 36 Table of Contents We are not relieved of our obligations to our policyholders or ceding companies by purchasing reinsurance. Accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurance and retrocessions in the event that a reinsurer is unable to pay amounts owed to us as a result of a deterioration in its financial condition. A number of reinsurers in the industry experienced such a deterioration in the aftermath of the 2001 terrorist attacks and the active 2005 hurricane season. To mitigate this risk, we annually review and periodically monitor our reinsurers’ financial condition and require at the time of purchase of reinsurance that each of our reinsurers holds a rating of at least “A-” by A.M. Best or the equivalent. While we believe that our reinsurers’ financial condition is strong, it is possible that one or more of our reinsurers will be significantly adversely affected by future significant loss events, causing them to be unable to pay amounts owed to us. We also may be unable to recover amounts due under our reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements if our reinsurers choose to withhold payment due to a dispute or other factors beyond our control. Our loss and loss adjustment expense reserves may be inadequate to cover our ultimate liability for losses and as a result our financial results could be adversely affected. We are required to maintain adequate reserves to cover our estimated ultimate liabilities for loss and loss adjustment expenses. Loss and LAE reserves are typically comprised of (1) case reserves for claims reported and (2) IBNR reserves for losses that have occurred but for which claims have not yet been reported, or IBNR, which include a provision for expected future development on case reserves. These reserves are estimates based on actuarial and statistical projections of what we believe the settlement and administration of claims will cost based on facts and circumstances then known to us. Because of the uncertainties that surround estimating loss and LAE reserves, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate and actual claims and claim expenses paid might exceed our reserves due to the uncertainties that surround estimating loss and LAE reserves. If we determine in the future that our reserves are insufficient to cover our actual losses and LAE, we would have to add to our reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, in 2008, WMRe America increased reserves by $181 million related to adverse loss development from its casualty reinsurance book. For further discussion of our loss and LAE reserves, including our asbestos and environmental reserves, see Item 7 -”CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES - Loss and Loss Adjustment Expenses”. We may not maintain favorable financial strength or creditworthiness ratings which could adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Third party rating agencies assess and rate the financial strength, including claims-paying ability, of insurers and reinsurers. These ratings are based upon criteria established by the rating agencies and are subject to revision at any time at the sole discretion of the agencies. Some of the criteria relate to general economic conditions and other circumstances outside the rated company’s control. These financial strength ratings are used by policyholders, agents and brokers as an important means of assessing the suitability of insurers as business counterparties and have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. These financial strength ratings do not refer to our ability to meet non-insurance obligations and are not a recommendation to purchase or discontinue any policy or contract issued by us or to buy, hold or sell our securities. General creditworthiness ratings are used by existing or potential investors to assess the likelihood of repayment on a particular debt issue. We believe that strong debt ratings are important factors that provide better financial flexibility when issuing new debt or restructuring existing debt. Rating agencies periodically evaluate us to confirm that we continue to meet the criteria of the ratings previously assigned to us. See “RATINGS” in Item 1 for a summary of financial strength ratings on our significant insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries and creditworthiness ratings on our significant financial instruments. A downgrade, withdrawal or negative watch/outlook of our financial strength ratings could severely limit or prevent our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries from writing new insurance or reinsurance policies or renewing existing policies, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A downgrade, withdrawal or negative watch/outlook of our creditworthiness ratings could severely limit our ability to raise new debt or could make new debt more costly and/or have more restrictive conditions. Additionally, the majority of White Mountains Re’s assumed reinsurance contracts contain optional cancellation, commutation and/or funding provisions that would be triggered if A.M. Best and/or S&P were to downgrade the financial strength ratings of either WMRe America, WMRe Sirius or WMRe Bermuda below “A-” or if the surplus of WMRe America, WMRe Sirius or WMRe Bermuda were to substantially decrease (generally, in excess of 20%). A client may choose to exercise these rights depending on, among other things, the reasons for such a downgrade, the extent of the downgrade, the prevailing market conditions, the degree of unexpired coverage, and the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage. We cannot predict in advance how many of our clients would actually exercise such rights but widespread exercise of these options could be materially adverse. For example, WMRe America experienced a reduction in surplus from year-end 2007 to year-end 2008 equal to approximately 24%. However, no client has yet exercised any contractual option relating to surplus reduction. 37 Table of Contents We have significant foreign operations that expose us to certain additional risks, including foreign currency risks and political risk. White Mountains Re conducts a significant portion of its business outside of the United States. As a result, a substantial portion of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and are therefore subject to foreign currency risk. Our foreign currency risk cannot be eliminated entirely and significant changes in foreign exchange rates may adversely affect our financial condition or our results of operations. Our foreign operations are also subject to legal, political and operational risks that may be greater than those present in the United States. As a result, our operations at these foreign locations could be temporarily or permanently disrupted. Our debt, preferred stock and related service obligations could adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $1,364 million face value of indebtedness and $250 million face value of White Mountains Re non-cumulative perpetual preference shares outstanding. Our ability to meet our debt and related service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We are also subject to restrictive financial covenants contained in our revolving credit facility that require us to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy financial condition tests. These covenants can restrict us in several ways, including our ability to incur additional indebtedness. A breach of these covenants could result in an event of default under our revolving credit facility which would allow lenders to declare all amounts owed under the revolving credit facility to be immediately due and payable. A failure to pay principal and interest on our revolving credit facility could trigger cross acceleration provisions contained in the indentures of the OBH Senior Notes and the WMRe Senior Notes. Conversely, a failure to pay principal and interest on the OBH Senior Notes or the WMRe Senior Notes could trigger a cross acceleration provision on our revolving credit facility. If we do not have enough cash to repay accelerated debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more cash or sell equity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to accomplish any of these alternatives on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We could incur additional indebtedness and issue additional preferred stock in the future. To the extent new debt, new preferred stock and other obligations are added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt and preferred stock levels, the risks described in the previous paragraph would increase. We are a holding company with no direct operations, and our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends to us is restricted by law. As a holding company with no direct operations, we rely on net investment income and dividends and other permitted payments from our subsidiaries to pay our expenses. Our subsidiaries may not be able to generate cash flow sufficient to pay a dividend or distribute funds to us. In addition, under the insurance laws of the jurisdictions in which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are domiciled, an insurer or reinsurer is restricted with respect to the timing or the amount of dividends it may pay without prior approval by regulatory authorities. We are required to hold eligible assets in trust (generally cash, short-term investments and hedge assets such as options and futures) for the benefit of the cedent under our life reinsurance contracts. Our holding companies contributed an additional $155 million into WM Life Re during 2008 and February 2009 to fulfill this requirement. Any future excess in the fair value of the liability pertaining to our life reinsurance contracts over the value of assets used to hedge that liability could necessitate contributions from our holding companies to fund the trust. Our top tier regulated insurance and reinsurance operating subsidiaries have the ability to pay approximately $352 million of dividends during 2009, without prior approval of regulatory authorities. As of December 31, 2008, the Company and its intermediate holding companies had approximately $468 million of net unrestricted cash and fixed maturity investments outside of its regulated insurance and reinsurance operating subsidiaries. See Item 7 - “LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES — Dividend Capacity”. Management believes that our cash balances, cash flows from operations and cash flows from investments are adequate to meet expected cash requirements for the foreseeable future on both a holding company and operating subsidiary level. However, if our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries cannot pay dividends in future periods or if we are required to contribute additional funds to fulfill our obligations under our life reinsurance contracts, we may have difficulty servicing our debt, paying dividends on our common and preferred shares and meeting our holding company expenses. For additional information relating to insurance and reinsurance regulations governing our operations, see “Regulation.” We may suffer losses from unfavorable outcomes from litigation and other legal proceedings. In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to litigation and other legal proceedings as part of the claims process, the outcomes of which are uncertain. We maintain reserves for these legal proceedings as part of our loss and LAE reserves. We also maintain separate reserves for legal proceedings that are not related to the claims process. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more legal matters, our ultimate liability may be in excess of amounts we have currently reserved for and such additional amounts may be material to our results of operations and financial condition. For a description of our material legal proceedings, see Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings.” As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number and size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance and reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. 38 Table of Contents The property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries are highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively in the future. The property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries are highly competitive and have, from time to time, experienced severe price competition. OneBeacon competes with numerous regional and national insurance companies, including The St. Paul Travelers Companies, Inc., Zurich Financial Services Group, CNA Financial Corporation, Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc., The Hanover Insurance Group, Inc., W.R. Berkley Corporation, The Chubb Corporation, The Progressive Corporation, Allstate Insurance Company, Liberty Mutual, American International Group, Inc. and the regional Farm Bureaus. White Mountains Re competes with numerous reinsurance companies throughout the world, including ACE Limited, Arch Capital Group Ltd., Endurance Specialty Holdings Ltd., Everest Re Group, Ltd., General Reinsurance Corporation, Hannover Ruckversicherung AG, Lloyd’s of London, Montpelier Re, Munich Re Group, Odyssey Re Holdings Corporation, Partner Re Ltd., Platinum Underwriters Holdings Ltd., Renaissance Re Holdings Ltd., Swiss Re Group, Transatlantic Holdings, Inc. and XL Capital Ltd. Esurance competes with national and regional personal automobile insurance companies, though Esurance’s main competition comes from other direct writers like Progressive, GEICO, and 21st Century. Many of these competitors have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do and have established long-term and continuing business relationships throughout the insurance industry, which can be a significant competitive advantage for them. OneBeacon predominately offers its products through a network comprised of independent agents. These agents compete with direct writers of insurance, who are often able to offer substantial discounts in pricing as compared to OneBeacon’s insurance products. If OneBeacon’s agents experience increased competition from direct writers of insurance, we in turn could be adversely affected if OneBeacon’s agents are unable to maintain a competitive position in their respective markets. These agents might also represent competitors of OneBeacon. In addition, substantial new capital and competitors have entered the reinsurance market in recent years, and we expect to face further competition in the future. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, our insurance and reinsurance businesses may be adversely affected and we may not be able to compete effectively in the future. Regulation may restrict our ability to operate. The insurance and reinsurance industries are subject to extensive regulation under U.S., state and foreign laws. Governmental agencies have broad administrative power to regulate many aspects of the insurance business, which include premium rates, marketing practices, advertising, policy forms and capital adequacy. These governmental agencies are concerned primarily with the protection of policyholders rather than shareholders. Insurance laws and regulations impose restrictions on the amount and type of investments, prescribe solvency standards that must be met and maintained and require the maintenance of reserves. In our insurance underwriting, we rely heavily upon information gathered from third parties such as credit report agencies and other data aggregators. The use of this information is also highly regulated and any changes to the current regulatory structure could materially affect how we underwrite and price premiums. Changes in laws and regulations may restrict our ability to operate and/or have an adverse effect upon the profitability of our business within a given jurisdiction. For example, legislation has been passed in Florida that significantly changes the reinsurance protection provided by the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund to companies that write business in Florida. The new legislation also contains a provision that will disallow insurers that write homeowners insurance elsewhere in the United States to write automobile insurance in Florida unless they also write homeowners insurance in Florida. The impact of the new legislation, which could be adverse, upon White Mountains’ insurance and reinsurance business in Florida cannot be determined until regulations interpreting the legislation are promulgated. In addition, state and federal legislation has been proposed to establish catastrophe funds and underwriting in coastal areas which could impact our business. In addition, there are efforts currently underway in the United States to federally regulate financial services companies, which could include insurance companies, including through the establishment of a U.S. federal regulatory body or agency. This legislation, if enacted, could result in the federal government assuming a more direct role in the regulation of the insurance industry. The current U.S. Congress could address the issue of U.S. federal regulation of insurance companies, including issues such as U.S. federal preemption of state insurance regulations as well as solvency and capital requirements. We cannot predict whether any U.S. federal legislation will be enacted at all, or if it is enacted, what issues it will address. Any such legislation could have an effect on our business and results of operations. Our profitability may be adversely impacted by inflation and legislative actions and judicial decisions. The effects of inflation could cause claim costs to rise in the future. In addition, judicial decisions and legislative actions continue to broaden liability and policy definitions and to increase the severity of claim payments, such as described above with respect to asbestos and environmental claims. To the extent inflation and these legislative actions and judicial decisions cause claim costs to increase above reserves established for these claims, we will be required to increase our loss and LAE reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. 39 Table of Contents In recent years we have successfully created shareholder value through acquisitions and dispositions of insurance and reinsurance entities. We may not be able to continue to create shareholder value through such transactions in the future. In the past several years, we have completed numerous acquisitions and dispositions of insurance and reinsurance entities, many of which have contributed significantly to our growth in adjusted book value. Failure to identify and complete future acquisition and disposition opportunities could limit our ability to achieve our target returns. Even if we were to identify and complete future acquisition opportunities, there is no assurance that such acquisitions will ultimately achieve their anticipated benefits. We have significant deferred tax assets which we may be unable to utilize if we do not generate sufficient future taxable income. We have $537 million of net operating loss carryforwards, capital loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards at December 31, 2008 that are subject to carryforward limitations in the United States. We have recorded a deferred tax asset of $138 million (net of a valuation allowance of $71 million) related to these items at December 31, 2008. We also have $2 billion of net operating loss carryforwards at December 31, 2008 which are not subject to carryforward limitations in Luxembourg. We have recorded a deferred tax asset of $162 million (net of a valuation allowance of $444 million) related to these net operating loss carryforwards at December 31, 2008. Utilization of these assets and other assets included in our worldwide net deferred tax asset of $418 million (net of a valuation allowance of $551 million) is dependent on generating sufficient future taxable income of the appropriate character (i.e., ordinary income or capital gains) in the appropriate jurisdiction. If it is determined that that it is more likely than not that sufficient future taxable income will not be generated, we would be required to increase the valuation allowance in future periods, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after 2016. We have received a standard assurance from the Bermuda Minister of Finance, under Bermuda’s Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate, duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to us or to any of our operations or our shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. In the event that we become subject to any Bermuda tax after such date, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in tax laws or tax treaties may cause more of the income of certain non-U.S. companies in our group to become subject to taxes in the United States. The taxable income of our U.S. subsidiaries is subject to U.S. federal, state and local income tax and other taxes. The income of the non-U.S. companies in our group is generally not subject to tax in the United States other than withholding taxes on interest and dividends. Certain of our non-U.S. companies are eligible for the benefits of tax treaties between the United States and other countries. We believe our non-U.S. companies will continue to be eligible for treaty benefits. However, it is possible that factual changes or changes to U.S. tax laws or changes to tax treaties that presently apply to our non-U.S. companies could impact income subject to tax in the United States. Similarly, changes to the applicable tax laws, treaties or regulations of other countries could subject the income of members of our group to higher rates of tax outside the United States. For example, in September 2008, a Bill (HR6969) was introduced to Congress to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to disallow the deduction for excess non-taxed reinsurance premiums with respect to United States risks paid to affiliates. This Bill has not yet proceeded beyond the introduction phase. We depend on our key personnel to manage our business effectively and they may be difficult to replace. Our performance substantially depends on the efforts and abilities of our management team and other executive officers and key employees. Furthermore, much of our competitive advantage is based on the expertise, experience and know-how of our key management personnel. We do not have fixed term employment agreements with any of our key employees nor key man life insurance and the loss of one or more of these key employees could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success also depends on the ability to hire and retain additional personnel. Difficulty in hiring or retaining personnel could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 40 Table of Contents Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to shareholders. We are organized under the laws of Bermuda, and a portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for our shareholders to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States, either in Bermuda or in countries other than the United States where we will have assets. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States or would hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. Our corporate affairs are governed by the Companies Act. The Companies Act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, amalgamations, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. Generally, the duties of directors and officers of a Bermuda company are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Bermuda companies generally do not have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company and may only do so in limited circumstances. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under Bermuda law. The Bermuda courts, however, would ordinarily be expected to permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of a company to remedy a wrong to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company or illegal, or would result in the violation of the company’s memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by a Bermuda court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or, for instance, where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of the company’s shareholders than that which actually approved it. When the affairs of a company are being conducted in a manner that is oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some part of the shareholders, one or more shareholders may apply to the Supreme Court of Bermuda, which may make such order as it sees fit, including an order regulating the conduct of the company’s affairs in the future or ordering the purchase of the shares of any shareholders by other shareholders or by the company. Additionally, under our bye-laws and as permitted by Bermuda law, each shareholder has waived any claim or right of action against our directors or officers for any action taken by directors or officers in the performance of their duties, except for actions involving fraud or dishonesty. In addition, the rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Bermuda law are not as clearly established as under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in jurisdictions in the United States, particularly the State of Delaware. Therefore, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States. The reinsurance business historically has been cyclical and, in the future, we expect to experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates, terms and conditions. Historically, reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity, general economic conditions, volatile investment markets and other factors. The supply of reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the level of insured losses and the level of industry surplus which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return earned in the reinsurance industry. As a result, the reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excess underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium rate levels. For example, the industry experienced a soft casualty market of lower prices and less favorable terms from 1997 to 2001 during which profitability suffered while the losses incurred from the 2005 U.S. hurricanes triggered price increases. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers significantly affect the reinsurance industry cycle. Any of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable contract terms, fewer submissions for our underwriting capacity and potential regulatory response. We expect to continue to experience the effects of the industry’s cyclicality. Our reinsurance operations are largely dependent upon our ceding companies’ evaluation of risk. White Mountains Re, like other reinsurance companies that write treaty reinsurance, generally does not evaluate separately each of the assumed individual insurance risks under our reinsurance contracts. As such, we are largely dependent upon the cedents’ original underwriting decisions. We are subject to the risk that the cedents may not have adequately or accurately evaluated the risks that they have insured, and we have reinsured, and that the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. If our reserves are insufficient to cover our actual loss and LAE arising from our treaty reinsurance business, we would have to strengthen our reserves and incur charges to our earnings. These charges could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 41 Table of Contents We have surety bonds in Latin America and write credit and bond reinsurance that could expose us to an economic downturn, or changes to the regulatory or legal environment, in certain countries and regions as a whole. White Mountains, through WMRe America, has run-off operations that include a material amount of Latin American facultative surety exposure (our “Surety Book”). Surety bonding describes a class of business where insurance companies guarantee various contractual commitments assumed by contractors and other businesses. The majority of WMRe America’s Surety Book is comprised of performance bonds, which is insurance obtained by service providers, such as construction firms, to protect against their failure to complete service engagements according to contractual terms. As of December 31, 2008, the maximum certificate or bonding value in our Surety Book (a measurement which does not factor in the percentage to completion of any of the projects supported by the bonds) was approximately $682 million. Approximately 90% of our Surety Book is represented by contracts in Colombia and 6% is represented in Brazil. While our Surety Book is comprised of a large number of contracts with relatively small individual exposures, a severe economic downturn that adversely affects the capital supply or business environment in Colombia or Brazil individually, or Latin America generally, or a significant shift in the regulatory or legal environments governing access to collateral in these markets, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In the event current recessionary pressures increase or continue over time, it is possible that certain South American countries could experience significant economic downturn that could affect the risks in White Mountains Re’s Surety Book. In addition, White Mountains Re, through WMRe Sirius, writes credit and bond reinsurance, mostly on companies with worldwide operations. Most debtors are based in Europe, representing approximately 71% of White Mountains Re’s exposure. The bulk of the business is traditional short term commercial credit insurance, covering pre-agreed domestic and export sales of goods and services with typical coverage periods of 60 to 120 days. In 2009, WMRe Sirius will retrocede 80% of premiums written in this business to a well capitalized credit insurer, whose performance is guaranteed by the Belgium government. Losses under these policies (protection of undisputed debts against declared insolvency and protracted default) are closely correlated to reductions in a respective country’s gross national product. As such, a recession that occurs in a relatively short period of time and impacts multiple countries could result in higher than expected losses. As of December 31, 2008, White Mountains Re’s contractual loss exposure for this business is approximately $1 billion. However, because of the short-term nature of this business, ceding companies can actively adjust credit exposures and substantially mitigate the effect of an economic crisis or a major bankruptcy. The limit of liability given above does not consider the positive impact of dynamic limit management nor does it include the credit for recoveries. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the date of this report, the Company had no unresolved comments from the Commission staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 