Item 1A. Risk Factors Changes in interest rates could adversely impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s ability to make a profit, like that of most financial institutions, substantially depends upon its net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. However, certain assets and liabilities, may react differently to changes in market interest rates. Further, interest rates on some types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate prior to changes in broader market interest rates, while rates on other types of assets may lag behind. Additionally, some assets such as adjustable-rate mortgages, have features, and rate caps, which restrict changes in their interest rates. Factors such as inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, global disorder such as that experienced as a result of the terrorist activity on September 11, 2001, instability in domestic and foreign financial markets, and other factors beyond the Company’s control, may affect interest rates. Changes in market interest rates will also affect the level of voluntary prepayments on loans and the receipt of payments on mortgage-backed securities, resulting in the receipt of proceeds that may have to be reinvested at a lower rate than the loan or mortgage-backed security being prepaid. Although the Company pursues an asset-liability management strategy designed to control its risk from changes in market interest rates, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profitability. The second half of 2007 was highlighted by disruption and volatility in the financial and credit markets, primarily due to the fallout associated with rising defaults within many subprime mortgage-backed structured investment vehicles (“SIV’s”). A major consequence of these market conditions has been significant tightening in the availability of credit, especially as it relates to the activity of the secondary residential mortgage market. These conditions have been exacerbated further by the continuation of a correction in (mostly residential-related) real estate market prices and sales activity and rising foreclosure rates, resulting in considerable mortgage loan related losses incurred by many lending institutions. The present state of the mortgage market has impacted the global markets as well as the domestic markets and has led to a significantly tightened environment in terms of credit and liquidity during the second half of 2007. In addition, economic growth has slowed down both nationally and globally, during the fourth quarter of 2007, leading many economists and market observers to conclude that the national economy is bordering on recession. The Company does not originate subprime mortgages to hold within its residential mortgage portfolio and the Company aims to diversify its entire lending portfolio, to the extent possible, across a variety of different loan types including: small business lines and loans, commercial & industrial lines and loans, commercial real estate mortgages, construction loans, direct and indirect consumer loans, residential mortgages and home equity loans. Nevertheless, there are risk elements that the Company may not be able to fully diversify out of its portfolio, such as its geographic concentration in southeastern Massachusetts and Rhode Island. Consequently, the credit quality and the continued performance of the Company’s lending portfolio is susceptible to the effects of general economic weakness and, in particular, a downturn in the housing industry, especially as these weaknesses relate to the Company’s primary geographic markets of southeastern Massachusetts and Rhode Island. During the second half of 2007, the Company experienced incremental increases in both non-performing loans and net loan charge-offs, as compared to prior periods. No assurance can be given that the economic and market conditions precedent will improve or will not further deteriorate. Hence, the persistence or worsening of such conditions could result in an increase in delinquencies, could cause a decrease in the Company’s interest income, or could continue to have an adverse impact on the Company’s loan loss experience, which, in turn, may necessitate increases to Company’s allowance for loan losses. If the Company has higher loan losses than it has allowed for, its earnings could materially decrease. The Company’s loan customers may not repay loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment of loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. The Company may therefore experience significant credit losses which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the size of the allowance for loan losses, the Company relies on its experience and its evaluation of economic conditions. If its 18 Table of Contents assumptions prove to be incorrect, its current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in its loan portfolio and adjustment may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in its loan portfolio. Consequently, a problem with one or more loans could require the Company to significantly increase the level of its provision for loan losses. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require it to increase its provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease the Company’s net income. A significant amount of the Company’s loans are concentrated in Massachusetts, and adverse conditions in this area could negatively impact its operations. Substantially all of the loans the Company originates are secured by properties located in or are made to businesses which operate in Massachusetts. Because of the current concentration of the Company’s loan origination activities in Massachusetts, in the event of adverse economic conditions, potential downward pressure on housing prices, political or business developments or natural hazards that may affect Massachusetts and the ability of property owners and businesses in Massachusetts to make payments of principal and interest on the underlying loans, the Company would likely experience higher rates of loss and delinquency on its loans than if its loans were more geographically diversified, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely impacted by changes in law and regulations. The Company is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination. See “Regulation” in Item 1 hereof, Business. Any change in the laws or regulations and failure by the Company to comply with applicable law and regulation, or a change in regulators’ supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board, other state or federal regulators, the United States Congress, or the Massachusetts legislature could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company has strong competition within its market area which may limit the Company’s growth and profitability. The Company faces significant competition both in attracting deposits and in the origination of loans. See “Market Area and Competition” in Item 1 hereof, Business. Commercial banks, credit unions, savings banks, savings and loan associations operating in our primary market area have historically provided most of our competition for deposits. Competition for the origination of real estate and other loans come from other commercial banks, thrift institutions, insurance companies, finance companies, other institutional lenders and mortgage companies. The success of the Company is dependent on hiring and retaining certain key personnel. The Company’s performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. The Company relies on key personnel to manage and operate its business, including major revenue generating functions such as loan and deposit generation. The loss of key staff may adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain and manage these functions effectively, which could negatively affect the Company’s revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting and hiring expenses, which could cause a decrease in the Company’s net income. The Company’s continued ability to compete effectively depends on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate its existing employees. Independent Bank Corp.’s business strategy of growth in part through acquisitions could have an impact on its earnings and results of operations that may negatively impact the value of the Company’s stock. In recent years, Independent Bank Corp. has focused, in part, on growth through acquisitions. In March 2008 Independent Bank completed the acquisition of Slade’s Ferry Bancorp., headquartered in Somerset, Massachusetts. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, Independent Bank Corp. engages in preliminary discussions with potential acquisitions targets. The consummation of any future acquisitions may dilute stockholder value. Although Independent Bank Corp.’s business strategy emphasizes organic expansion combined with acquisitions, there can be no assurance that, in the future, Independent Bank Corp. will successfully identify suitable acquisitions candidates, complete acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired operations into our existing operations or expand into new markets. There can be no assurance that acquisitions will not have an adverse effect 19 Table of Contents upon Independent Bank Corp.’s operating results while the operations of the acquired business are being integrated into Independent Bank Corp.’s operations. In addition, once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of profitability comparable to those achieved by Independent Bank Corp.’s existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. Further, transaction-related expenses may adversely affect Independent Bank Corp.’s earnings. These adverse effects on Independent Bank Corp.’s earnings and results of operations may have a negative impact on the value of Independent Bank Corp.’s stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 