ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSChanges in interest rates could adversely impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s ability to make a profit, like that of most financial institutions, substantially depends upon its net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. However, certain assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in market interest rates. Further, interest rates on some types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate prior to changes in broader market interest rates, while rates on other types of assets may lag behind. Additionally, some assets such as adjustable-rate mortgages have features, such as rate caps and floors, which restrict changes in their interest rates.Factors such as inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, global disorder, instability in domestic and foreign financial markets, and other factors beyond the Company’s control, may affect interest rates. Changes in market interest rates will also affect the level of voluntary prepayments on loans and the receipt of payments on mortgage-backed securities, resulting in the receipt of proceeds that may have to be reinvested at a lower rate than the loan or mortgage-backed security being prepaid.The state of the financial and credit markets, and potential sovereign debt defaults may severely impact the global and domestic economies and may lead to a significantly tighter environment in terms of liquidity and availability of credit. Economic growth may slow down and the national economy may experience additional recession periods. Market disruption, government and central bank policy actions intended to counteract the effects of recession, changes in investor expectations regarding compensation for market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk and changing economic data could continue to have dramatic effects on both the volatility of and the magnitude of the directional movements of interest rates. Although the Company pursues an asset/liability management strategy designed to control its risk from changes in interest rates, changes in market interest rates can have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profitability. A further deterioration of the credit rating for U.S. long-term sovereign debt could adversely impact the Company. On August 5, 2011, Standard and Poor’s downgraded the U.S. long-term sovereign debt from AAA, the highest rating, to AA+, the second highest rating. This downgrade did not directly impact the financial position or outlook for the Company, but a further downgrade as a result of an inability by the federal government to raise the U.S. debt limit or otherwise could result in a re-evaluation of the ‘risk-free’ rate used in many accounting models, other-than-temporary-impairment of securities and/or impairment of goodwill and other intangibles. Given that future deterioration in the United States credit and financial markets is a possibility, no assurance can be made that losses or significant deterioration in the fair value of the Company’s U.S. government issued or guaranteed investments will not occur. If the Company has higher than anticipated loan losses than it has modeled, its earnings could materially decrease. The Company’s loan customers may not repay loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment of loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. The Company may therefore experience significant credit losses which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results and capital ratios. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, the Company relies on its experience and its evaluation of economic conditions. If its assumptions prove to be incorrect, its current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in its loan portfolio and an adjustment may be necessary to allow for 20Table of Contentsdifferent economic conditions or adverse developments in its loan portfolio. Consequently, a problem with one or more loans could require the Company to significantly increase the level of its provision for loan losses. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require it to increase its provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease the Company’s net income.A significant amount of the Company’s loans are concentrated in the Bank’s geographic footprint and adverse conditions in this area could negatively impact its operations. Substantially all of the loans the Company originates are secured by properties located in, or are made to businesses which operate in Massachusetts, and to a lesser extent Rhode Island. Because of the current concentration of the Company’s loan origination activities in its geographic footprint, in the event of adverse economic conditions, including, but not limited to, increased unemployment, downward pressure on the value of residential and commercial real estate, political or business developments, that may affect the ability of property owners and businesses to make payments of principal and interest on the underlying loans in the Bank’s geographic footprint. The Company would likely experience higher rates of loss and delinquency on its loans than if its loans were more geographically diversified, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition.The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely impacted by changes in law, regulations, and accounting policies. The Company is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination. See “Regulation” in Item 1 hereof, Business. Any change in the laws or regulations and failure by the Company to comply with applicable law and regulation, or a change in regulators’ supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board, other state or federal regulators, the United States Congress, or the Massachusetts legislature could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Changes in accounting policies, practices and standards, as may be adopted by the regulatory agencies as well as the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and other accounting standard setters, could also negatively impact the Company’s financial results.The Dodd-Frank Act has had and will continue to have a significant impact on the regulatory structure of the financial markets and will impose additional costs on the Company. The Dodd-Frank Act could adversely affect certain of the Company’s business operations and competitive position. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, establishes a new Financial Stability Oversight Council to monitor systemic risk posed by financial institutions, restricts proprietary trading and private fund investment activities by banking institutions, creates a new framework for the regulation of derivatives and revises the FDIC’s assessment base for deposit insurance. Provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act may also restrict the flexibility of financial institutions to compensate their employees. In addition, provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act have resulted in changes to existing capital rules, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business operations, capital structure, capital ratios or financial performance. The final effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on the Company’s business will depend largely on the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act by regulatory bodies and the exercise of discretion by these regulatory bodies.The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and new capital rules is unknown. In 2013, the FDIC, the OCC and the Federal Reserve Board approved a new rule that will substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Company. The final rule implements the “Basel III” regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The application of more stringent capital requirements for the Company could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions such as a prohibition on the payment of dividends or on the repurchase shares if we were unable to comply with such requirements.The Company has strong competition within its market area which may limit the Company’s growth and profitability. The Company faces significant competition both in attracting deposits and in the origination of loans. See “Market Area and Competition” in Item 1 hereof, Business. Additional mergers and acquisitions of financial institutions within the Company’s market area may also occur given the current difficult banking environment and add more competitive pressure. If the Company is unable to compete effectively, it may lose market share and income generated from loans, deposits, and other financial products may decline.The success of the Company is dependent on hiring and retaining certain key personnel. The Company’s performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. The Company relies on key personnel to manage and operate its business, including major revenue generating functions such as loan and deposit generation. The loss of key staff may adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain and manage these functions effectively, which could negatively affect the Company’s revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting and hiring expenses, which could cause a decrease in the Company’s net income. The Company’s continued ability to compete effectively depends on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate its existing employees.21Table of ContentsThe Company’s business strategy of growth in part through acquisitions could have an impact on its earnings and results of operations that may negatively impact the value of the Company’s stock. In recent years, the Company has focused, in part, on growth through acquisitions. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, the Company engages in preliminary discussions with potential acquisition targets. The consummation of any future acquisitions may dilute stockholder value. Although the Company’s business strategy emphasizes organic expansion combined with acquisitions, there can be no assurance that, in the future, the Company will successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired operations into our existing operations or expand into new markets. There can be no assurance that acquisitions will not have an adverse effect upon the Company’s operating results while the operations of the acquired business are being integrated into the Company’s operations. In addition, once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of profitability comparable to those achieved by the Company’s existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. Further, transaction-related expenses may adversely affect the Company’s earnings. These adverse effects on the Company’s earnings and results of operations may have a negative impact on the value of the Company’s stock.Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the industry in which the Company operates. In recent years, dramatic declines in the housing market, with falling real estate values and increasing foreclosures, unemployment, and under-employment negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. A resumption of economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets could materially affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely have adverse effects on the Company and others in the financial services industry. In particular, the Company may face the following risks in connection with these events:•The Company could face increased regulation of its industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase its costs and limit its ability to pursue business opportunities.•Market developments may affect customer confidence levels and may cause increases in loan delinquencies and default rates, which the Company expects could impact its loan charge-offs and provision for loan losses.•Deterioration or defaults made by issuers of the underlying collateral of the Company’s investment securities may cause credit related other-than-temporary impairment charges to the Company’s income statement.•The Company’s ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to access the debt or equity capital markets on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations.•Competition in the industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with adverse market conditions.•The Company could be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums if market developments significantly deplete the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduce the ratio of reserves to insured deposits.•It may become necessary or advisable for the Company, due to changes in regulatory requirements, change in market conditions, or for other reasons, to hold more capital or to alter the forms of capital it currently maintains.The Company’s securities portfolio performance in difficult market conditions could have adverse effects on the Company’s results of operations. Under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, the Company is required to review the Company’s investment portfolio periodically for the presence of other-than-temporary impairment of its securities, taking into consideration current market conditions, the extent and nature of changes in fair value, issuer rating changes and trends, volatility of earnings, current analysts’ evaluations, the Company’s ability and intent to hold investments until a recovery of fair value, as well as other factors. Adverse developments with respect to one or more of the foregoing factors may require the Company to deem particular securities to be other-than-temporarily impaired, with the credit related portion of the reduction in the value recognized as a charge to the Company’s earnings. Recent market volatility has made it extremely difficult to value certain securities of the Company. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors prevailing at that time, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. Any of these factors could require the Company to recognize further impairments in the value of the Company’s securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations in future periods.22Table of ContentsImpairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. Goodwill arises when a business is purchased for an amount greater than the net fair value of its assets. The Bank has recognized goodwill as an asset on the balance sheet in connection with several acquisitions (see Note 6, “Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets” within Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof). When an intangible asset is determined to have an indefinite useful life, it is not amortized, and instead is evaluated for impairment. Goodwill is subject to impairment tests annually, or more frequently if necessary, and is evaluated using a two-step impairment approach. A significant and sustained decline in the Company’s stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in the Company’s expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or other factors could result in impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. If the Company were to conclude that a future write-down of the goodwill or intangible assets is necessary, then the Company would record the appropriate charge to earnings, which could be materially adverse to the results of operations and financial position.Deterioration in the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Boston’s capital might restrict the FHLB of Boston’s ability to meet the funding needs of its members, cause a suspension of its dividend, and cause its stock to be determined to be impaired. Significant components of the Bank’s liquidity needs are met through its access to funding pursuant to its membership in the FHLB of Boston. The FHLB is a cooperative that provides services to its member banking institutions. The primary reason for joining the FHLB is to obtain funding from the FHLB of Boston. The purchase of stock in the FHLB is a requirement for a member to gain access to funding. Any deterioration in the FHLB’s performance may affect the Company’s access to funding and/or require the Company to deem the required investment in FHLB stock to be impaired.Reductions in the value of the Company’s deferred tax assets could affect earnings adversely. A deferred tax asset is created by the tax effect of the differences between an asset’s book value and its tax basis. The Company assesses the deferred tax assets periodically to determine the likelihood of the Company’s ability to realize their benefits. These assessments consider the performance of the associated business and its ability to generate future taxable income. If the information available to the Company at the time of assessment indicates there is a greater than 50% chance that the Company will not realize the deferred tax asset benefit, the Company is required to establish a valuation allowance for it and reduce its future tax assets to the amount the Company believes could be realized in future tax returns. Recording such a valuation allowance could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations or financial position. Additionally the deferred tax asset is measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which the temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Accordingly a change in enacted tax rates may result in a decrease/increase to the Company’s deferred tax asset.The Company will need to keep pace with evolving information technology and guard against and react to increased cyber security risks and electronic fraud. The potential need to adapt to changes in information technology could adversely impact the Company’s operations and require increased capital spending. The risk of electronic fraudulent activity within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting bank accounts and other customer information, could adversely impact the Company’s operations, damage its reputation and require increased capital spending.The Company’s business depends on maintaining the trust and confidence of customers and other market participants, and the resulting good reputation is critical to its business. The Company’s ability to originate and maintain accounts is highly dependent upon the perceptions of consumer and commercial borrowers and deposit holders and other external perceptions of the Company’s business practices or financial health. The Company’s reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate. Regulatory inquiries, employee misconduct and rumors, among other things, can substantially damage the Company’s reputation, even if they are baseless or satisfactorily addressed. Adverse perceptions regarding the Company’s reputation in the consumer, commercial and funding markets could lead to difficulties in generating and maintaining accounts as well as in financing them and to decreases in the levels of deposits that consumer and commercial customers and potential customers choose to maintain with the Company, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results.If the Company’s risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate the Company’s risks, the Company could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. The Company’s risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and appropriately balance risk and return. The Company has established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor and report the types of risk to which its subject, including credit risk, operations risk, compliance risk, reputation risk, strategic risk, market risk and liquidity risk. The Company seeks to monitor and control its risk exposure through a framework of policies, procedures and reporting requirements. Management of the Company’s risks in some cases depends upon the use of analytical and/or forecasting models. If the models used to mitigate these risks are inadequate, the Company may incur losses. In addition, there may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that the Company has not appropriately anticipated, identified or mitigated. If the Company’s risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate its risks, the Company could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected.23Table of ContentsA significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could adversely affect the Company’s asset quality and profitability for those loans secured by real property and increase the number of defaults and the level of losses within the Company’s loan portfolio. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and could deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A downturn in the real estate market in the Company’s primary market areas could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn could have an adverse effect on the Company’s profitability and asset quality. If the Company is required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, its earnings and shareholders’ equity could be adversely affected. The declines in real estate prices in the Company’s markets also may result in increases in delinquencies and losses in its loan portfolios. Unexpected decreases in real estate prices coupled with a prolonged economic recovery and elevated levels of unemployment could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in the Company’s allowance for loan losses. In that event, the Company’s earnings could be adversely affected. Changes in accounting policies or accounting standards could cause the Company to change the manner in which it reports its financial results and condition in adverse ways and could subject the Company to additional costs and expenses. The Company’s accounting policies are fundamental to understanding its financial results and condition. Some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of the Company’s assets or liabilities and financial results. The Company identified its accounting policies regarding the allowance for loan losses, security valuations and impairments, goodwill and other intangible assets, and income taxes to be critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. Under each of these policies, it is possible that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions, using different assumptions, or as new information becomes available. From time to time, the FASB and the SEC change their guidance governing the form and content of the Company’s external financial statements. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret U.S. GAAP, such as the FASB, SEC, banking regulators and the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. Such changes are expected to continue, and may accelerate dependent upon the FASB and International Accounting Standards Board commitments to achieving convergence between U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. Changes in U.S. GAAP and changes in current interpretations are beyond the Company’s control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how the Company reports its financial results and condition. In certain cases, the Company could be required to apply new or revised guidance retroactively or apply existing guidance differently (also retroactively) which may result in the Company restating prior period financial statements for material amounts. Additionally, significant changes to U.S. GAAP may require costly technology changes, additional training and personnel, and other expenses that will negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. The Company may be unable to adequately manage its liquidity risk, which could affect its ability to meet its obligations as they become due, capitalize on growth opportunities, or pay regular dividends on its common stock. Liquidity risk is the potential that the Company will be unable to meet its obligations as they come due, capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise, or pay regular dividends on its common stock because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding in a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances. Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit commitments to borrowers, mortgage and other loan originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of borrowings, dividends to shareholders, operating expenses and capital expenditures. Liquidity is derived primarily from retail deposit growth and retention; principal and interest payments on loans; principal and interest payments on investment securities; sale, maturity and prepayment of investment securities; net cash provided from operations, and access to other funding sources. The Company is subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Company may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Company to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the Company’s ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Company’s exposure to environmental liability. Although the Company has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review prior to originating certain commercial real estate loans, as well as before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS24Table of ContentsNone