Item 1A. Risk Factors Changes in interest rates could adversely impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s ability to make a profit, like that of most financial institutions, substantially depends upon its net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. However, certain assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in market interest rates. Further, interest rates on some types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate prior to changes in broader market interest rates, while rates on other types of assets may lag behind. Additionally, some assets such as adjustable-rate mortgages have features, such as rate caps and floors, which restrict changes in their interest rates. Factors such as inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, global disorder, instability in domestic and foreign financial markets, and other factors beyond the Company’s control, may affect interest rates. Changes in market interest rates will also affect the level of voluntary prepayments on loans and the receipt of payments on mortgage-backed securities, resulting in the receipt of proceeds that may have to be reinvested at a lower rate than the loan or mortgage-backed security being prepaid. The state of the financial and credit markets may severely impact the global and domestic economies and may lead to a significantly tighter environment in terms of liquidity and availability of credit. Economic growth may slow down and the national economy may experience additional recession periods. Market disruption, government, and central bank policy actions intended to counteract the effects of recession, changes in investor expectations regarding compensation for market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk and changing economic data could continue to have dramatic effects on both the volatility of and the magnitude of the directional movements of interest rates. Although the Company pursues an asset/liability management strategy designed to control its risk from changes in interest rates, changes in market interest rates can have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profitability. If the Company has higher than anticipated loan losses than it has modeled, its earnings could materially decrease. The Company’s loan customers may not repay loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment of loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. The Company may therefore experience significant credit losses which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results and capital ratios. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, the Company relies on its experience and its evaluation of economic conditions. If its assumptions prove to be incorrect, its current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in its loan portfolio and an adjustment may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in its loan portfolio. Consequently, a problem with one or more loans could require the Company to significantly increase the level of its provision for loan losses. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require it to increase its provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease the Company’s net income. A significant amount of the Company’s loans are concentrated in Massachusetts, and adverse conditions in this area could negatively impact its operations. Substantially all of the loans the Company originates are secured by properties located in, or are made to businesses which operate in Massachusetts. Because of the current concentration of the Company’s loan origination activities in Massachusetts, in the event of continued adverse economic conditions, including, but not limited to, increased unemployment, continued downward pressure on the value of residential and commercial real estate, political or business developments, that may affect Massachusetts and the ability of property owners and businesses in Massachusetts to make payments of principal and interest on the underlying loans, the Company would likely experience higher rates of loss and delinquency on its loans than if its loans were more geographically diversified, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely impacted by changes in law and regulations. The Company is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination. See “Regulation” in Item 1 hereof, Business. Any change in the laws or regulations and failure by the Company to comply with applicable law and regulation, or a change in regulators’ supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether 23 Table of Contents by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board, other state or federal regulators, the United States Congress, or the Massachusetts legislature could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company has strong competition within its market area which may limit the Company’s growth and profitability. The Company faces significant competition both in attracting deposits and in the origination of loans. See “Market Area and Competition” in Item 1 hereof, Business. Commercial banks, credit unions, savings banks, savings and loan associations operating in the Company’s primary market area have historically provided most of its competition for deposits. Competition for the origination of real estate and other loans come from other commercial banks, thrift institutions, credit unions, insurance companies, finance companies, other institutional lenders and mortgage companies. The success of the Company is dependent on hiring and retaining certain key personnel. The Company’s performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. The Company relies on key personnel to manage and operate its business, including major revenue generating functions such as loan and deposit generation. The loss of key staff may adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain and manage these functions effectively, which could negatively affect the Company’s revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting and hiring expenses, which could cause a decrease in the Company’s net income. The Company’s continued ability to compete effectively depends on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate its existing employees. The Company’s business strategy of growth in part through acquisitions could have an impact on its earnings and results of operations that may negatively impact the value of the Company’s stock. In recent years, the Company has focused, in part, on growth through acquisitions. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, the Company engages in preliminary discussions with potential acquisition targets. The consummation of any future acquisitions may dilute stockholder value. Although the Company’s business strategy emphasizes organic expansion combined with acquisitions, there can be no assurance that, in the future, the Company will successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired operations into our existing operations or expand into new markets. There can be no assurance that acquisitions will not have an adverse effect upon the Company’s operating results while the operations of the acquired business are being integrated into the Company’s operations. In addition, once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of profitability comparable to those achieved by the Company’s existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. Further, transaction-related expenses may adversely affect the Company’s earnings. These adverse effects on the Company’s earnings and results of operations may have a negative impact on the value of the Company’s stock. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the industry in which the Company operates. Dramatic declines in the housing market with falling real estate values and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets could materially affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on the Company and others in the financial services industry. In particular, the Company may face the following risks in connection with these events: • The Company may expect to face increased regulation of its industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase its costs and limit its ability to pursue business opportunities. 24 Table of Contents • Market developments may affect customer confidence levels and may cause increases in loan delinquencies and default rates, which the Company expects could impact its loan charge-offs and provision for loan losses. • Continued illiquidity in the capital markets for certain types of investment securities may cause additional credit related other-than-temporary impairment charges to the Company’s income statement. • The Company’s ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to access the debt or equity capital markets on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. • Competition in the industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. • The Company may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. • It may become necessary or advisable for the Company, due to changes in regulatory requirements, change in market conditions, or for other reasons, to hold more capital or to alter the forms of capital it currently maintains. The Company’s securities portfolio performance in difficult market conditions could have adverse effects on the Company’s results of operations. Under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, the Company is required to review the Company’s investment portfolio periodically for the presence of other-than-temporary impairment of its securities, taking into consideration current market conditions, the extent and nature of changes in fair value, issuer rating changes and trends, volatility of earnings, current analysts’ evaluations, the Company’s ability and intent to hold investments until a recovery of fair value, as well as other factors. Adverse developments with respect to one or more of the foregoing factors may require the Company to deem particular securities to be other-than-temporarily impaired, with the credit related portion of the reduction in the value recognized as a charge to the Company’s earnings. Recent market volatility has made it extremely difficult to value certain of the Company’s securities. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors prevailing at that time, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. Any of these factors could require the Company to recognize further impairments in the value of the Company’s securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations in future periods. Impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. Goodwill arises when a business is purchased for an amount greater than the net fair value of its assets. The Bank has recognized goodwill as an asset on the balance sheet in connection with several recent acquisitions (see Note 6 “Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets” within Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof). When an intangible asset is determined to have an indefinite useful life, it shall not be amortized, and instead is evaluated for impairment. The Company evaluates goodwill and intangibles for impairment at least annually by comparing fair value to carrying amount. Although the Company determined that goodwill and other intangible assets were not impaired during 2010, a significant and sustained decline in the Company’s stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in the Companys expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or other factors could result in impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. If the Company were to conclude that a future write-down of the goodwill or intangible assets is necessary, then the Company would record the appropriate charge to earnings, which could be materially adverse to the results of operations and financial position. Deterioration in the Federal Home Loan Bank Boston’s (“FHLBB”) capital might restrict the FHLBB’s ability to meet the funding needs of its members, cause a suspension of its dividend, and cause its stock to be determined to be impaired. Significant components of the Bank’s liquidity needs are met through its access to funding pursuant to its membership in the FHLBB. The FHLBB is a cooperative that provides services to its member banking institutions. The primary reason for joining the FHLBB is to obtain funding from the FHLBB. The purchase of stock in the FHLBB is a requirement for a member to gain access to funding. Any deterioration in the FHLBB’s 25 Table of Contents performance may affect the Companys access to funding and/or require the Company to deem the required investment in FHLBB stock to be impaired. Reductions in the value of the Company’s deferred tax assets could affect earnings adversely. A deferred tax asset is created by the tax effect of the differences between an asset’s book value and its tax basis. The Company assesses the deferred tax assets periodically to determine the likelihood of the Company’s ability to realize their benefits. These assessments consider the performance of the associated business and its ability to generate future taxable income. If the information available to the Company at the time of assessment indicates there is a greater than 50% chance that the Company will not realize the deferred tax asset benefit, the Company is required to establish a valuation allowance for it and reduce its future tax assets to the amount the Company believes could be realized in future tax returns. Recording such a valuation allowance could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations or financial position. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 