ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSChanges in interest rates and other factors could adversely impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s ability to make a profit, like that of most financial institutions, substantially depends upon its net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. However, certain assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in market interest rates. Further, interest rates on some types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate prior to changes in broader market interest rates, while rates on other types of assets may lag behind. Additionally, some assets such as adjustable-rate mortgages have features, such as rate caps and floors, which restrict changes in their interest rates.Factors such as inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, global disorder, instability in domestic and foreign financial markets, and other factors beyond the Company’s control, may affect interest rates. Changes in market interest rates will also affect the level of voluntary prepayments on loans and the receipt of payments on mortgage-backed securities, resulting in the receipt of proceeds that may have to be reinvested at a lower rate than the loan or mortgage-backed security being prepaid.The state of the financial and credit markets, and potential sovereign debt defaults may severely impact the global and domestic economies and may lead to a significantly tighter environment in terms of liquidity and availability of credit. Economic growth may slow down and the national economy may experience additional recession periods. Market disruption, government and central bank policy actions intended to counteract the effects of recession, changes in investor expectations regarding compensation for market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk and changing economic data could continue to have dramatic effects on both the volatility of and the magnitude of the directional movements of interest rates. Although the Company pursues an asset/liability management strategy designed to control its risk from changes in interest rates, changes in market interest rates can have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profitability. If the Company has higher than anticipated loan losses than it has modeled, its earnings could materially decrease. The Company’s loan customers may not repay loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment of loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. The Company may therefore experience significant credit losses which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results and capital ratios. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers, the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans, and the enforceability of its loan documents. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, the Company relies on its experience and its evaluation of economic conditions. If its assumptions prove to be incorrect, its current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in its loan portfolio and an adjustment may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in its loan portfolio. Consequently, a problem with one or more loans could require the Company to significantly increase the level of its provision for loan losses. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require it to increase its provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease the Company’s net income.A significant amount of the Company’s loans are concentrated in the Bank’s geographic footprint and adverse conditions in this area could negatively impact its operations. Substantially all of the loans the Company originates are secured by properties located in, or are made to businesses which operate in Massachusetts, and to a lesser extent Rhode Island. Because of the current concentration of the Company’s loan origination activities in its geographic footprint, in the event of adverse economic conditions, including, but not limited to, increased unemployment, downward pressure on the value of residential and commercial real estate, political or business developments, that may affect the ability of property owners and businesses to make payments of principal and interest on the underlying loans in the Bank’s geographic footprint. The Company would likely experience higher rates of loss and delinquency on its loans than if its loans were more geographically diversified, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition.A significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could adversely affect the Company’s asset quality and profitability for those loans secured by real property and increase the number of defaults and the level of losses within the Company’s loan portfolio. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and could deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A downturn in the real estate market in the Company’s primary market areas could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn could have an adverse effect on the Company’s profitability and asset quality. If the Company is required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, its earnings and shareholders’ equity could be adversely affected. The declines in real estate prices in the Company’s markets also may result in increases in delinquencies and losses in its loan portfolios. Unexpected decreases in real estate prices coupled with a prolonged economic 20Table of Contentsrecovery and elevated levels of unemployment could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in the Company’s allowance for loan losses. In that event, the Company’s earnings could be adversely affected. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely impacted by changes in law, regulations, and accounting policies. The Company is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination. See “Regulation” in Item 1 hereof, Business. Any change in the laws or regulations and failure by the Company to comply with applicable law and regulation, or a change in regulators’ supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board, other state or federal regulators, the United States Congress, or the Massachusetts legislature could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Changes in accounting policies, practices and standards, as may be adopted by the regulatory agencies as well as the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and other accounting standard setters, could also negatively impact the Company’s financial results.The recent change in regulatory capital requirements may have an adverse impact on the Company's future financial results. In 2013, the FDIC, the OCC and the Federal Reserve Board approved new rules that substantially amended the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Company and the Bank. The final rule implemented the “Basel III” regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The new rules went into effect on January 1, 2015, although certain portions of the rule, including the capital conservation buffer, are being phased in over a period of several years. The application of more stringent capital requirements, including the phase in of the capital conservation buffer, on the Company could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions such as a prohibition on the payment of dividends or on the repurchase of shares if the Company were unable to comply with such requirements.The Company has strong competition within its market area which may limit the Company’s growth and profitability. The Company faces significant competition both in attracting deposits and in the origination of loans. See “Market Area and Competition” in Item 1 hereof, Business. Additional mergers and acquisitions of financial institutions within the Company’s market area may also occur given the current difficult banking environment and add more competitive pressure. Additionally, the Company's market share and income may be adversely affected by its inability to successfully compete against larger and more diverse financial service providers. If the Company is unable to compete effectively, it may lose market share and income generated from loans, deposits, and other financial products may decline.The success of the Company is dependent on hiring and retaining certain key personnel. The Company’s performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. The Company relies on key personnel to manage and operate its business, including major revenue generating functions such as loan and deposit generation. The loss of key staff may adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain and manage these functions effectively, which could negatively affect the Company’s revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting and hiring expenses, which could cause a decrease in the Company’s net income. The Company’s continued ability to compete effectively depends on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate its existing employees.The Company’s business strategy of growth in part through acquisitions could have an impact on its earnings and results of operations that may negatively impact the value of the Company’s stock. In recent years, the Company has focused, in part, on growth through acquisitions. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, the Company engages in preliminary discussions with potential acquisition targets. The consummation of any future acquisitions may dilute stockholder value. Although the Company’s business strategy emphasizes organic expansion combined with acquisitions, there can be no assurance that, in the future, the Company will successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired operations into the Company's existing operations or expand into new markets. There can be no assurance that acquisitions will not have an adverse effect upon the Company’s operating results while the operations of the acquired business are being integrated into the Company’s operations. In addition, once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of profitability comparable to those achieved by the Company’s existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. Further, transaction-related expenses may adversely affect the Company’s earnings. These adverse effects on the Company’s earnings and results of operations may have a negative impact on the value of the Company’s stock.The Company’s securities portfolio performance in difficult market conditions could have adverse effects on the Company’s results of operations. Under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"), the Company is required to review the Company’s investment portfolio periodically for the presence of other-than-temporary impairment of its securities, taking into consideration current market conditions, the extent and nature of changes in fair value, issuer rating changes and trends, volatility of earnings, current analysts’ evaluations, the Company’s ability and intent to hold investments until a recovery of amortized cost, as well as other factors. Adverse developments with respect to one or more of the foregoing factors may require the Company to deem particular securities to be other-than-temporarily impaired, with the credit related portion of the reduction in the value recognized as a charge to the Company’s earnings. Market volatility may make it extremely difficult to value certain 21Table of Contentssecurities of the Company. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors prevailing at that time, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. Any of these factors could require the Company to recognize further impairments in the value of the Company’s securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations in future periods.Impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on the Company's results of operations. Goodwill arises when a business is purchased for an amount greater than the net fair value of its assets. The Bank has recognized goodwill as an asset on the balance sheet in connection with several acquisitions (see Note 6, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” within Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof). When an intangible asset is determined to have an indefinite useful life, it is not amortized, and instead is evaluated for impairment. Goodwill is subject to impairment tests annually, or more frequently if necessary, and is evaluated using a two-step impairment approach. A significant and sustained decline in the Company’s stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in the Company’s expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or other factors could result in impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. If the Company were to conclude that a future write-down of the goodwill or intangible assets is necessary, then the Company would record the appropriate charge to earnings, which could be materially adverse to the results of operations and financial position.Deterioration in the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Boston’s capital might restrict the FHLB of Boston’s ability to meet the funding needs of its members, cause a suspension of its dividend, and cause its stock to be determined to be impaired. Significant components of the Bank’s liquidity needs are met through its access to funding pursuant to its membership in the FHLB of Boston. The FHLB is a cooperative that provides services to its member banking institutions. The primary reason for joining the FHLB is to obtain funding from the FHLB of Boston. The purchase of stock in the FHLB is a requirement for a member to gain access to funding. Any deterioration in the FHLB’s performance may affect the Company’s access to funding and/or require the Company to deem the required investment in FHLB stock to be impaired.Reductions in the value of the Company’s deferred tax assets could affect earnings adversely. A deferred tax asset is created by the tax effect of the differences between an asset’s book value and its tax basis. The Company assesses the deferred tax assets periodically to determine the likelihood of the Company’s ability to realize their benefits. These assessments consider the performance of the associated business and its ability to generate future taxable income. If the information available to the Company at the time of assessment indicates there is a greater than 50% chance that the Company will not realize the deferred tax asset benefit, the Company is required to establish a valuation allowance for it and reduce its future tax assets to the amount the Company believes could be realized in future tax returns. Recording such a valuation allowance could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations or financial position. Additionally the deferred tax asset is measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which the temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Accordingly a change in enacted tax rates may result in a decrease/increase to the Company’s deferred tax asset.The Company will need to keep pace with evolving information technology, guard against and react to increased cyber security risks and electronic fraud. The potential need to adapt to changes in information technology could adversely impact the Company’s operations and require increased capital spending. The risk of electronic fraudulent activity within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting bank accounts and other customer information, could adversely impact the Company’s operations, damage its reputation and require increased capital spending. The Company's information technology infrastructure and systems may be vulnerable to cyber terrorism, computer viruses, system failures and other intentional or unintentional interference, negligence, fraud and other unauthorized attempts to access or interfere with these systems and proprietary information. Although the Company believes to have implemented and maintain reasonable security controls over proprietary information as well as information of the Company's customers, stockholders and employees, a breach of these security controls may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations and could subject us to significant regulatory actions and fines, litigation, loss, third-party damages and other liabilities.The Company’s business depends on maintaining the trust and confidence of customers and other market participants, and the resulting good reputation is critical to its business. The Company’s ability to originate and maintain accounts is highly dependent upon the perceptions of consumer and commercial borrowers and deposit holders and other external perceptions of the Company’s business practices or financial health. The Company’s reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate. Regulatory inquiries, employee misconduct and rumors, among other things, can substantially damage the Company’s reputation, even if they are baseless or satisfactorily addressed. Adverse perceptions regarding the Company’s reputation in the consumer, commercial and funding markets could lead to difficulties in generating and maintaining accounts as well as in financing them and to decreases in the levels of deposits that consumer and commercial customers and potential customers choose to maintain with the Company, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial results.22Table of ContentsIf the Company’s risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate the Company’s risks, the Company could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. The Company’s risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and appropriately balance risk and return. The Company has established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor and report the types of risk to which it's subject, including credit risk, operations risk, compliance risk, reputation risk, strategic risk, market risk and liquidity risk. The Company seeks to monitor and control its risk exposure through a framework of policies, procedures and reporting requirements. Management of the Company’s risks in some cases depends upon the use of analytical and/or forecasting models. If the models used to mitigate these risks are inadequate, the Company may incur losses. In addition, there may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that the Company has not appropriately anticipated, identified or mitigated. If the Company’s risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate its risks, the Company could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected.Changes in accounting policies or accounting standards could cause the Company to change the manner in which it reports its financial results and condition in adverse ways and could subject the Company to additional costs and expenses. The Company’s accounting policies are fundamental to understanding its financial results and condition. Some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of the Company’s assets or liabilities and financial results. The Company identified its accounting policies regarding the allowance for loan losses, security valuations and impairments, goodwill and other intangible assets, and income taxes to be critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. Under each of these policies, it is possible that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions, using different assumptions, or as new information becomes available. From time to time, the FASB and the SEC change their guidance governing the form and content of the Company’s external financial statements. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret U.S. GAAP, such as the FASB, SEC, and banking regulators, may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. Such changes are expected to continue, and may accelerate dependent upon the FASB and International Accounting Standards Board commitments to achieving convergence between U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. Changes in U.S. GAAP and changes in current interpretations are beyond the Company’s control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how the Company reports its financial results and condition. In certain cases, the Company could be required to apply new or revised guidance retroactively or apply existing guidance differently (also retroactively) which may result in the Company restating prior period financial statements for material amounts. Additionally, significant changes to U.S. GAAP may require costly technology changes, additional training and personnel, and other expenses that will negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. The Company may be unable to adequately manage its liquidity risk, which could affect its ability to meet its obligations as they become due, capitalize on growth opportunities, or pay regular dividends on its common stock. Liquidity risk is the potential that the Company will be unable to meet its obligations as they come due, capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise, or pay regular dividends on its common stock because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding in a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances. Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit commitments to borrowers, mortgage and other loan originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of borrowings, dividends to shareholders, operating expenses and capital expenditures. Liquidity is derived primarily from retail deposit growth and retention; principal and interest payments on loans; principal and interest payments on investment securities; sale, maturity and prepayment of investment securities; net cash provided from operations, and access to other funding sources. The Company is subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Company may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Company to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the Company’s ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Company’s exposure to environmental liability. Although the Company has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review prior to originating certain commercial real estate loans, as well as before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the equity markets could materially affect the level of assets under management and the demand for other fee-based services. Economic downturns could affect the volume of income from and demand for fee-based services. Revenues from the investment management business depend in large part on the level of assets under management and administration. Market volatility that leads customers to liquidate investments as well as lower asset values can reduce the 23Table of ContentsCompany's level of assets under management and administration and thereby decrease the Company's investment management and administration revenues. The Company relies on its systems, employees and certain service providers, and if the system fails or if the Company's security measures are compromised, the operations could be disrupted or the data of the Company's customers could be improperly divulged. The Company faces the risk that the design of the Company's controls and procedures, including those to mitigate the risk of fraud by employees or outsiders, may prove to be inadequate or are circumvented, thereby causing delays in detection of errors or inaccuracies in data and information. The Company regularly reviews and updates the Company's internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company's controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company may also be subject to disruptions of the systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond the Company's control (including, for example, electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to losses in service to customers and to financial loss or liability. Additionally, the Company's risk exposure to security matters may remain elevated or increase in the future due to, among other things, the increasing size and prominence of the Bank in the financial services industry, the Company's expansion of Internet and mobile banking tools and products based on customer needs, and the system and customer account conversions associated with the integration of merger targets. The Company is further exposed to the risk that external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as us) and to the risk that the Company's (or vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The Company maintains a control framework designed to monitor vendor risks. While the Company believes these policies and procedures help to mitigate risk, the failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements could be disruptive to the Company's operations, which could have a material adverse impact on the business and, in turn, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.The Company's ability to make opportunistic acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including the risk that regulators will not provide the requisite approvals. The Company may make opportunistic whole or partial acquisitions of other banks, branches, financial institutions, or related businesses from time to time that it expects may further the Company's business strategy. Any possible acquisition will be subject to regulatory approval, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain such approval in a timely manner or at all. Even if the Company obtains regulatory approval, these acquisitions could involve numerous risks, including lower than expected performance or higher than expected costs, difficulties related to integration, diversion of management’s attention from other business activities, changes in relationships with customers, and the potential loss of key employees. In addition, the Company may not be successful in identifying acquisition candidates, integrating acquired institutions, or preventing deposit erosion or loan quality deterioration at acquired institutions. Competition for acquisitions can be highly competitive, and the Company may not be able to acquire other institutions on attractive terms. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in completing or will even pursue future acquisitions, or if such transactions are completed, that the Company will be successful in integrating acquired businesses into operations. Ability to grow may be limited if the Company chooses not to pursue or are unable to successfully make acquisitions in the future.The Company’s effective income tax rate could be adversely affected if the Company's community development entity subsidiaries do not receive additional New Markets Tax Credit awards. As indicated in Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations", the Company’s effective tax rate is determined by a number of factors, including the recognition of federal tax credits in connection with New Markets Tax Credit awards. In 2015, the Company recognized $6.5 million in federal tax credits through New Markets Tax Credit award deployment. Federal government agencies periodically determine New Markets Tax Credit award recipients through a nationwide application process that is highly competitive. While the Company’s community development entity subsidiaries have received four prior New Markets Tax Credit awards, there can be no assurance as to the success of any current or future New Markets Tax Credit applications. If the Company does not obtain additional awards the Company's effective tax rate could increase substantially in the future, adversely affecting net income, as existing federal tax credits run off.The Company may experience losses and expenses if security interests granted for loans are not enforceable. When the Bank makes loans it is sometimes granted liens such as real estate mortgages or other asset pledges to provide the Bank with a security interest in collateral. If there is a loan default the Bank may need to foreclose upon collateral and enforce the security interests it has been granted to obtain repayment. Drafting errors, other defects or imperfections in the security interests granted to the Bank, and/or changes in law may render liens granted to the Bank unenforceable. The Company may incur losses or expenses if security interests granted to the Bank are or may be unenforceable. 24Table of ContentsITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone