Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company Our Mortgage businesses are complex and heavily regulated, and the full impact of regulatory developments to our businesses remains uncertain. In addition, we are subject to litigation, regulatory investigations and inquiries and may incur fines, penalties, and increased costs that could negatively impact our future results of operations or damage our reputation. Our Mortgage Production and Mortgage Servicing segments are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations and may be subject to various judicial and administrative decisions imposing various requirements and restrictions on our business. These laws, regulations and judicial and administrative decisions to which our Mortgage Production and Mortgage Servicing segments are subject include those pertaining to: real estate settlement procedures; fair lending; fair credit reporting; truth in lending; compliance with net worth and financial statement delivery requirements; compliance with federal and state disclosure and licensing requirements; the establishment of maximum interest rates, finance charges and other charges; secured transactions; collection, foreclosure, repossession and claims-handling procedures; other trade practices and privacy regulations providing for the use and safeguarding of non-public personal financial information of borrowers and guidance on non-traditional mortgage loans issued by the federal financial regulatory agencies. By agreement with our private-label clients, we are required to comply with additional requirements that our clients may be subject to through their regulators. Our failure to comply with the laws, rules or regulations to which we are subject would expose us to fines, penalties or potential litigation liabilities, including costs, settlements and judgments, or may result in the termination of our private-label agreements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We are currently subject to inquiries, requests for information, and investigations as a result of our mortgage origination and servicing practices, including inquiries and requests for information from regulators and attorneys general of certain states, as well as from the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee, an investigation of our servicing practices by the New Jersey Attorney General, and an investigation by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the “CFPB”) of our compliance with the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and other laws. In addition, we are defendants in various legal proceedings, which include private and civil litigation as well as government and regulatory examinations, investigations and inquiries or other requests for information. These matters are at varying procedural stages and the resolution of any of these matters may result in adverse judgments, fines, penalties, injunctions and other relief against us, payments made in settlement arrangements, as well as monetary payments or other agreements and obligations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. For more information about these matters, see Note 16 “Commitments and Contingencies”, in the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. There has been a heightened focus of regulators on the practices of the mortgage industry, including investigations of lending practices, foreclosure practices, and loss mitigation practices, among other matters. Our mortgage origination and servicing competitors have been subject to actions from and settlements with the U.S. Department of Justice under the False Claims Act and other statutes, alleging, among other things, reckless mortgage lending practices and improper or inadequate certification to the government in connection with the Federal Housing Administration’s Direct Endorsement Lending Program. Although we have not been notified that we are the subject of any investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice, there can be no assurance that future investigations may not arise. The heightened focus of regulators on the practices of the mortgage industry have resulted and could continue 10 Table of Contents to result in new legislation and regulations that could materially and adversely affect the manner in which we conduct our mortgage business and have resulted in increased origination and servicing costs and potential litigation associated with our mortgage businesses. We are monitoring a number of recent and pending changes to laws and regulations and other financial reform legislation that are expected to impact our Mortgage segments. These developments include but are not limited to: (i) regulations from the Dodd-Frank Act, including the risk-retention requirements and definition of “qualified mortgages”; (ii) proposed changes to the infrastructures of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; and (iii) current rules proposed and adopted by the CFPB, including uniform standards for the mortgage servicing industry. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and of pending legislation in the U.S. Congress may impact the operation and practices of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and could reduce or eliminate the GSE’s ability to issue mortgage-backed securities, which would materially and adversely affect our businesses and could require us to fundamentally change our business model since we sell substantially all of our loans pursuant to GSE-sponsored programs. These developments could also result in heightened federal regulation and oversight of our business activities and increase costs and potential litigation associated with our business activities. The full impact these developments may have on our mortgage origination, servicing and securitization or structured finance transactions remains unclear. We are substantially dependent upon our unsecured and secured funding arrangements, a significant portion of which are short-term agreements. If any of our funding arrangements are terminated, not renewed or otherwise become unavailable to us, we may be unable to find replacement financing on economically viable terms, if at all, which would adversely affect our ability to fund our operations. We are substantially dependent upon various sources of funding, including unsecured credit facilities and other unsecured debt, as well as secured funding arrangements, including asset-backed securities, mortgage warehouse facilities and other secured credit facilities to fund mortgage loans and vehicle acquisitions, a significant portion of which is short-term in nature. Our access to both the secured and unsecured credit markets is subject to prevailing market conditions. Renewal of our existing series of, or the issuance of new series of, vehicle lease asset-backed notes on terms acceptable to us or our ability to enter into alternative vehicle management asset-backed debt arrangements could be adversely affected in the event of: (i) the deterioration in the quality of the assets underlying the asset-backed debt arrangement; (ii) termination of our role as servicer of the underlying lease assets in the event that we default in the performance of our servicing obligations or we declare bankruptcy or become insolvent; or (iii) our failure to maintain a sufficient level of eligible assets or credit enhancements, including collateral intended to provide for any differential between variable-rate lease revenues and the underlying variable-rate debt costs. In addition, our access to and our ability to renew our existing mortgage asset-backed debt could suffer in the event of: (i) the deterioration in the performance of the mortgage loans underlying the asset-backed debt arrangement; (ii) our failure to maintain sufficient levels of eligible assets or credit enhancements; (iii) our inability to access the secondary market for mortgage loans; or (iv) termination of our role as servicer of the underlying mortgage assets in the event that (a) we default in the performance of our servicing obligations or (b) we declare bankruptcy or become insolvent. Certain of our debt arrangements require us to comply with certain financial covenants and other affirmative and restrictive covenants, including requirements to post additional collateral or to fund assets that become ineligible under our secured funding arrangements. An uncured default of one or more of these covenants would result in a cross-default between and amongst our various debt arrangements. Consequently, an uncured default under any of our debt arrangements that is not waived by our lenders and that results in an acceleration of amounts payable to our lenders or the termination of credit facilities would materially and adversely impact our liquidity, could force us to sell assets at below market prices to repay our indebtedness, and could force us to seek relief under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents If any of our credit facilities are terminated or are not renewed or if conditions in the credit markets worsen dramatically and it is not possible or economical for us to complete the sale or securitization of our originated mortgage loans or vehicle leases, we may be unable to find replacement financing on commercially favorable terms, if at all, which could adversely impact our operations and prevent us from: (i) executing our business plan and related risk management strategies; (ii) originating new mortgage loans or vehicle leases; or (iii) fulfilling commitments made in the ordinary course of business. These factors could reduce revenues attributable to our business activities or require us to sell assets at below market prices, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our overall business and consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Most of our mortgage asset backed debt facilities are 364-day facilities that mature within one year. Generally, these facilities require us to maintain a specified amount of available liquidity from other facilities. As such, our liquidity profile and compliance with debt covenants depends on our ability to renew multiple facilities within a short time frame and our failure to do so could materially adversely impact our overall business and financial position, results of operations and cashflows. We are highly dependent upon programs administered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae. Failure to maintain our relationships with each of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae would materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our ability to generate revenues through mortgage loan sales to institutional investors in the form of mortgage-backed securities depends to a significant degree on programs administered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and others that facilitate the issuance of mortgage-backed securities in the secondary market. These entities play a powerful role in the residential mortgage industry, and we have significant business relationships with them. Our status as a Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae approved seller/servicer is subject to compliance with each entity’s respective selling and servicing guidelines and failure to meet such guidelines could result in the unilateral termination of our status as an approved seller/servicer. During 2012, 85% of our mortgage loan sales were sold to, or were sold pursuant to programs sponsored by, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae. We also derive other material financial benefits from our relationships with Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae, including the assumption of credit risk by these entities on loans included in mortgage-backed securities in exchange for our payment of guarantee fees, the ability to avoid certain loan inventory finance costs through streamlined loan funding and sale procedures and the use of mortgage warehouse facilities with Fannie Mae pursuant to which, as of December 31, 2012, we had total capacity of $3.0 billion, made up of $1.0 billion of committed and $2.0 billion uncommitted capacity. In addition, we service loans on behalf of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, as well as loans that have been securitized pursuant to securitization programs sponsored by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae in connection with the issuance of agency guaranteed mortgage-backed securities and a majority of our mortgage servicing rights relate to these servicing activities. These entities establish the base service fee to compensate us for servicing loans as well as the assessment of fines and penalties that may be imposed upon us for failing to meet servicing standards. Changes in existing U.S. government-sponsored mortgage programs or servicing eligibility standards could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows and could require us to fundamentally change our business model in order to effectively compete in the market. Congress has held hearings about and received reports outlining the long-term strategic plan for, and various options for long-term reform of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. These options involve reducing government support for housing finance and gradually reducing the role of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the mortgage market and ultimately winding down both institutions. In August 2012, the U.S. Treasury Department announced further steps to expedite the wind down of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, including an accelerated liquidation of Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s retained mortgage investment portfolios. Other reforms of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac may include, among other actions: (i) further reductions in conforming loan limits; (ii) increases in guarantee fees; (iii) standardization of servicing protocols; (iv) changes to servicer compensation; and (v) increased MBS disclosures. 12 Table of Contents The accelerated liquidation of Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s retained mortgage investment portfolios and other proposed reforms may impact the pricing of mortgage related assets in the secondary market, result in higher mortgage rates to borrowers, and have a resulting negative impact on mortgage origination volumes and margins across the mortgage industry, any one of which could have a negative impact on our Mortgage production business. Additionally, it is unclear what impact these changes will have on the secondary mortgage markets, mortgage-backed securities pricing, and competition in the industry. Although we do not presently believe that the accelerated liquidation of Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s retained mortgage investment portfolios would have any direct impact on their respective mortgage guaranty programs, in 2012 there have been a series of increases to guarantee fees charged by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to mortgage originators like us. These increases, and any future increases in guaranty fees could result in higher mortgage rates charged to borrowers, which could result in reduced demand for mortgages, or reduced pricing margins or both. Accordingly, further increases in guaranty fees could also adversely impact mortgage origination volumes or pricing margins across the mortgage industry, including our mortgage origination volumes and pricing margins, and such impacts could be material. The potential changes to the government-sponsored mortgage programs, and related servicing compensation structures, could require us to fundamentally change our business model in order to effectively compete in the market. Our inability to make the necessary changes to respond to these changing market conditions or loss of our approved seller/servicer status with any of these entities, would have a material adverse effect on our overall business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows and could result in a lowering of our credit ratings. Any discontinuation of, significant reduction of or material change in, the operation or underwriting standards of these entities would likely prevent us from originating and selling most, if not all, of our salable mortgage loan originations and could result in the discontinuation of or material decrease in the availability of our mortgage warehouse facilities with Fannie Mae. Our Mortgage Production segment is substantially dependent upon our relationships with Realogy and Merrill Lynch Home Loans, a division of Bank of America, National Association, and the termination or non-renewal of our contractual agreements with these clients would materially and adversely impact our mortgage loan originations and resulting Net revenues and Segment profit (loss) of our Mortgage Production segment and this would have a material adverse effect on our overall business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have relationships with several clients that represent a significant portion of our revenues and mortgage loan originations for our Mortgage Production segment. In particular, of our mortgage loan originations for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, Realogy represented approximately 25% and 22%, respectively, and Merrill Lynch Home Loans, a division of Bank of America, National Association, represented approximately 27% and 21%, respectively. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, our relationship with Merrill Lynch Home Loans is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2015. The terms of our relationship with Realogy are further outlined below. The loss of any one of these clients, whether due to insolvency, their unwillingness or inability to perform their obligations under their respective contractual relationships with us, their termination of their respective contractual relationships with us due to our failure to fully satisfy our contractual obligations, or if we are not able to renew on commercially reasonable terms any of their respective contractual relationships with us, would materially and adversely impact our mortgage loan originations and resulting Net revenues and Segment profit (loss) of our Mortgage Production segment and this would also have a material adverse effect on our overall business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 13 Table of Contents The termination of our status as the exclusive recommended provider of mortgage products and services promoted by Realogy’s affiliates would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We are party to a strategic relationship agreement dated as of January 31, 2005 between PHH Mortgage, PHH Home Loans, PHH Broker Partner, Realogy Services Venture Partner, Inc. and Cendant Corporation (now known as Avis Budget Group, Inc.). Under the Strategic Relationship Agreement we are the exclusive recommended provider of mortgage loans to the independent sales associates affiliated with the real estate brokerage business owned and operated by Realogy’s affiliates and certain customers of Realogy. The marketing agreement entered into between Coldwell Banker Real Estate Corporation, Century 21 Real Estate LLC, ERA Franchise Systems, Inc., Sotheby’s International Affiliates, Inc. and PHH Mortgage Corporation similarly provides that we are the exclusive recommended provider of mortgage loans and related products to the independent sales associates of Realogy’s real estate brokerage franchisees, which include Coldwell Banker Real Estate Corporation, Century 21 Real Estate LLC, ERA Franchise Systems, Inc. and Sotheby’s International Affiliates, Inc. In addition, the Strategic Relationship Agreement provides that Realogy has the right to terminate the covenant requiring it to exclusively recommend us as the provider of mortgage loans to the independent sales associates affiliated with the real estate brokerage business owned and operated by Realogy’s affiliates and certain customers of Realogy, following notice and a cure period, if: · we materially breach any representation, warranty, covenant or other agreement contained in the Strategic Relationship Agreement, the Marketing Agreement, trademark license agreements or certain other related agreements, including, without limitation, our confidentiality agreements in the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement and the Strategic Relationship Agreement, and our non-competition agreements in the Strategic Relationship Agreement; · we become subject to any regulatory order or governmental proceeding and such order or proceeding prevents or materially impairs PHH Home Loans’ ability to originate mortgage loans for any period of time (which order or proceeding is not generally applicable to companies in the mortgage lending business) in a manner that adversely affects the value of one or more of the quarterly distributions to be paid by PHH Home Loans pursuant to the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement; · PHH Home Loans otherwise is not permitted by law, regulation, rule, order or other legal restriction to perform its origination function in any jurisdiction, but in such case exclusivity may be terminated only with respect to such jurisdiction; or · PHH Home Loans does not comply with its obligations to complete an acquisition of a mortgage loan origination company under the terms of the Strategic Relationship Agreement. If Realogy were to terminate its exclusivity obligations with respect to us, one of our competitors could replace us as the recommended provider of mortgage loans to Realogy and its affiliates and franchisees, which would result in our loss of most, if not all, of our mortgage loan originations, Net revenues and Segment profit (loss) of our Mortgage Production segment derived from Realogy’s affiliates, which loss would have a material adverse effect on our overall business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, certain of the events that give Realogy the right to terminate its exclusivity obligations with respect to us under the Strategic Relationship Agreement would also give Realogy the right to terminate its other agreements and arrangements with us. For example, the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement also permits Realogy to terminate the mortgage venture with us (i) upon our material breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or other agreement contained in the Strategic Relationship Agreement, the Marketing Agreement, the Trademark License Agreements or certain other related agreements that is not cured following any applicable notice or cure period; (ii) if we become subject to any regulatory order or governmental proceeding that prevents or materially impairs PHH Home Loans’ ability to originate mortgage loans for any period of time (which order or proceeding is not generally applicable to companies in the mortgage lending business) in a manner that adversely affects the value of one or more of the quarterly distributions to be paid by PHH Home Loans pursuant to the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement; (iii) in the event of a change in control of us, PHH Broker Partner Corporation or any other affiliate of ours involving certain competitors or other specified parties; (iv) if PHH Home Loans fails to make scheduled distributions pursuant to the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement; (v) in the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of us or PHH Mortgage; or (vi) upon any act or omission by us or our subsidiaries that causes or would 14 Table of Contents reasonably be expected to cause material harm to Realogy or any of its subsidiaries. Upon a termination of the PHH Home Loans joint venture by Realogy or its affiliates, Realogy will have the right either (i) to require that we or certain of our affiliates purchase all of Realogy’s interest in PHH Home Loans; or (ii) to cause us to sell our interest in PHH Home Loans to an unaffiliated third party designated by certain of Realogy’s affiliates. If we were required to purchase Realogy’s interest in PHH Home Loans, that could have an adverse impact on our liquidity. Additionally, any termination of PHH Home Loans will also result in a termination of the Strategic Relationship Agreement and our exclusivity rights under the Strategic Relationship Agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement, beginning on February 1, 2015, Realogy will have the right at any time upon two years’ notice to us to terminate its interest in PHH Home Loans. If Realogy were to terminate PHH Home Loans or our other arrangements with Realogy, including its exclusivity obligations with respect to us, any such termination would likely result in our loss of most, if not all, of our mortgage loan originations, Net revenues and Segment profit (loss) of our Mortgage Production segment derived from Realogy’s affiliates, which loss would have a material adverse effect on our overall business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Certain hedging strategies that we may use to manage risks associated with our assets, including mortgage loans held for sale, interest rate lock commitments, mortgage servicing rights and foreign currency denominated assets, may not be effective in mitigating those risks and could result in substantial losses that could exceed the losses that would have been incurred had we not used such hedging strategies. We may employ various economic hedging strategies in an attempt to mitigate the interest rate and prepayment risk inherent in many of our assets, including our mortgage loans held for sale, interest rate lock commitments and, from time to time, our mortgage servicing rights. Our hedging activities may include entering into derivative instruments. We also seek to manage interest rate risk in our Mortgage Production and Mortgage Servicing segments partially without the use of financial derivatives by monitoring and seeking to maintain an appropriate balance between our loan production volume and the size of our mortgage servicing portfolio, as the value of mortgage servicing rights and the income they provide tend to be counter-cyclical to the changes in production volumes and the gain or loss on loans that result from changes in interest rates. This approach requires our management to make assumptions with regards to future replenishment rates for our mortgage servicing rights, loan margins, the value of additions to our mortgage servicing rights and loan origination costs, and many factors can impact these estimates, including loan pricing margins and our ability to adjust staffing levels to meet changing consumer demand. Our decisions regarding the levels, if any, of our derivatives related to mortgage servicing rights could result in continued volatility in the results of operations for our Mortgage Servicing segment. We are also exposed to foreign exchange risk associated with our investment in our Canadian operations and with foreign exchange forward contracts that we have entered into, or may in the future enter into, to hedge U.S. dollar denominated borrowings used to fund Canadian dollar denominated leases and operations. Our hedging decisions in the future to manage these foreign exchange risks will be determined in light of the facts and circumstances existing at the time and may differ from our current hedging strategy. Our hedging strategies, including our decisions whether to use financial derivatives to hedge our Mortgage servicing rights, may not be effective in mitigating the risks related to changes in interest rates or foreign exchange rates and we may have insufficient liquidity to exercise our strategies. Poorly designed strategies or improperly executed transactions could actually increase our risk and losses, and could result in losses in excess of what our losses would have been had we not used such hedging strategies. There have been periods, and it is likely that there will be periods in the future, during which we incur significant losses as a result of our hedging strategies. As stated earlier, the success of our interest rate risk management strategy and our replenishment strategies for our mortgage servicing rights are largely dependent on our ability to predict the earnings sensitivity of our loan servicing and loan production activities in various interest rate environments, as well as our ability to successfully manage any capacity constraints in our mortgage production business and our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity to exercise these strategies. Our hedging strategies also rely on assumptions and projections regarding our assets and general market factors. If these assumptions and projections prove to be incorrect or our hedges do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes including, but not limited to, interest rates or prepayment speeds or foreign exchange rate fluctuations, we may incur losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 15 Table of Contents Our senior unsecured long-term debt ratings are below investment grade and, as a result, we may be limited in our ability to obtain or renew financing on economically viable terms or at all. Our senior unsecured long-term debt ratings are below investment grade and, as a result, our access to the public debt markets may be severely limited in comparison to the ability of investment grade issuers to access such markets. We may be required to rely on alternative financing, such as bank lines and private debt placements, and may also be required to pledge otherwise unencumbered assets. There can be no assurances that we would be able to find such alternative financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Furthermore, we may be unable to renew all of our existing bank credit commitments beyond the then-existing maturity dates. As a consequence, our cost of financing could rise significantly, thereby negatively impacting our ability to finance our mortgage loans held for sale, mortgage servicing rights and net investment in fleet leases. Any of the foregoing would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our ratings may be subject to downgrades if losses arising from mortgage repurchase claims significantly exceed our operating cash flows and other liquidity sources; our hedging strategies related to mortgage servicing rights are ineffective; if we are unable to put in place sources of liquidity to fund our business satisfactory to the rating agencies; regulatory reviews result in material monetary exposures and/or other negative consequences, among other factors. We cannot assure you what impact any further negative debt ratings actions may have on our cost of capital, ability to incur new indebtedness or refinance our existing indebtedness or ability to retain or secure customers. There can be no assurances that our credit rating by the primary ratings agencies reflects all of the risks of an investment in our debt securities. Our credit ratings are an assessment by the rating agency of our ability to pay our obligations. Any of our credit ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the applicable rating agency. Actual or anticipated changes in our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our debt securities. Our credit ratings, however, may not reflect the potential impact of risks related to market conditions generally or other factors on the market value of, or trading market for, our debt securities. Changes in interest rates could materially and adversely affect our volume of mortgage loan originations or reduce the value of our mortgage servicing rights, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Changes in and the level of interest rates are key drivers of our mortgage loan originations in our Mortgage Production segment and mortgage loan refinancing activity, in particular. The level of interest rates are significantly affected by monetary and related policies of the federal government, its agencies and government sponsored entities, which are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board that regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. The Federal Reserve Board’s policies, including initiatives to stabilize the U.S. housing market and to stimulate overall economic growth, affect the size of the mortgage loan origination market, the pricing of our interest-earning assets and the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in any of these policies are beyond our control, difficult to predict, particularly in the current economic environment, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Historically, rising interest rates have generally been associated with a lower volume of loan originations and lower pricing margins in our Mortgage Production segment due to a disincentive for borrowers to refinance at a higher interest rate, while falling interest rates have generally been associated with higher loan originations and higher pricing margins, due to an incentive for borrowers to refinance at a lower interest rate. Our ability to generate Gain on mortgage loans, net in our Mortgage Production segment is significantly dependent on our level of mortgage loan originations. Accordingly, increases in interest rates could materially and adversely affect our mortgage loan origination volume, which could have a material and adverse effect on our Mortgage Production segment, as well as our overall business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, changes in interest rates may require us to post additional collateral under certain of our financing arrangements and derivative agreements which could impact our liquidity. 16 Table of Contents Changes in interest rates are also a key driver of the performance of our Mortgage Servicing segment as the values of our mortgage servicing rights are highly sensitive to changes in interest rates. Historically, the value of our mortgage servicing rights have increased when interest rates rise and have decreased when interest rates decline due to the effect those changes in interest rates have on prepayment estimates, with changes in fair value of our mortgage servicing rights being included in our consolidated results of operations. Because we do not currently utilize derivatives to hedge a substantial portion of our mortgage servicing rights, our consolidated financial positions, results of operations and cash flows are susceptible to significant volatility due to changes in the fair value of our mortgage servicing rights as interest rates change. As a result, substantial volatility in interest rates materially affects our Mortgage Servicing segment, as well as our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Continued or worsening conditions in the real estate market have adversely impacted, and in the future could continue to adversely impact, our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Adverse economic conditions in the United States have resulted, and could continue to result, in increased mortgage loan payment delinquencies, home price depreciation and a lower volume of home sales. These trends have negatively impacted and may continue to negatively impact our Mortgage Production and Mortgage Servicing segments through increased loss severities in connection with loan repurchase and indemnification claims due to declining home prices, increased mortgage reinsurance losses due to increased delinquencies and loss severities, and lower home purchase mortgage originations. However, we have experienced a relatively smaller impact from these trends than many of our current and former competitors because we generally sell substantially all of the mortgage loans we originate shortly after origination, we do not generally maintain credit risk on the loans we originate or maintain a loan investment portfolio, substantially all of our mortgage loan originations are prime mortgages rather than Alt-A or subprime mortgages, and our mortgage loan servicing portfolio has experienced a lower rate of payment delinquencies than that of many of our competitors. Nevertheless, these trends have resulted in an increase in the incidence of loan repurchase and indemnification claims, as well as an increase in incurred mortgage reinsurance losses, resulting in an increase in our recorded reserves for expected and realized losses for loan repurchases and indemnifications and mortgage reinsurance. Continuation of these trends could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive and many of our competitors have access to greater financial resources, lower funding costs and greater access to liquidity, which places us at a competitive disadvantage. If we are unable to compete successfully in our industries, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. We operate in highly competitive industries that could become even more competitive as a result of economic, legislative, regulatory or technological changes. Competition for mortgage loan originations comes primarily from commercial banks and savings institutions. Many of our competitors for mortgage loan originations that are commercial banks or savings institutions typically have access to greater financial resources, have lower funding costs, are less reliant than we are on the sale of mortgage loans into the secondary markets to maintain their liquidity, and may be able to participate in government programs that we are unable to participate in because we are not a state or federally chartered depository institution, all of which places us at a competitive disadvantage. The advantages of our largest competitors include, but are not limited to, their ability to hold new mortgage loan originations in an investment portfolio and their access to lower rate bank deposits as a source of liquidity. Additionally, more restrictive loan underwriting standards and the widespread elimination of Alt-A and subprime mortgage products throughout the industry have resulted in a more homogenous product offering, which has increased competition across the industry for mortgage originations. The fleet management industry in which we operate is also highly competitive. We compete against national, local and regional competitors, including numerous competitors who focus on one or two products. Growth in our Fleet Management Services segment is driven principally by increased market share in fleets greater than 75 units and increased fee-based services. Competitive pressures in the Fleet Management industry resulting in a decrease in our market share or lower prices would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Adverse developments in the secondary mortgage market have had, and in the future could have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We historically have relied on selling or securitizing our mortgage loans into the secondary market in order to generate liquidity to fund maturities of our indebtedness, the origination and warehousing of mortgage loans, the retention of mortgage servicing rights and for general working capital purposes. We bear the risk of being unable to sell or securitize our mortgage loans at advantageous times and prices or in a timely manner. Demand in the secondary market and our ability to complete the sale or securitization of our mortgage loans depends on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, general conditions in the banking system, the willingness of lenders to provide funding for mortgage loans, the willingness of investors to purchase mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities and changes in regulatory requirements. If it is not possible or economical for us to complete the sale or securitization of certain of our mortgage loans held for sale, we may lack liquidity under our mortgage financing facilities to continue to fund such mortgage loans and our revenues and margins on new loan originations would be materially and negatively impacted, which would materially and negatively impact our Net revenues and Segment profit (loss) of our Mortgage Production segment and also have a material adverse effect on our overall business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The severity of the impact would be most significant to the extent we were unable to sell conforming mortgage loans to the GSEs or securitize such loans pursuant to GSE sponsored programs. Losses incurred in connection with actual or projected loan repurchase and indemnification claims may exceed our financial statement reserves and we may be required to increase such reserves in the future. Increases to our reserves and losses incurred in connection with actual loan repurchases and indemnification payments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operation or cash flows. In connection with the sale of mortgage loans, we make various representations and warranties that, if breached, require us to repurchase the loans or indemnify the purchaser for actual losses incurred in respect of such loans. These representations and warranties vary based on the nature of the transaction and the purchaser’s or insurer’s requirements but generally pertain to the ownership of the mortgage loan, the real property securing the loan and compliance with applicable laws and applicable lender and government-sponsored entity underwriting guidelines in connection with the origination of the loan. The aggregate unpaid principal balance of loans sold or serviced by us represents the maximum potential exposure related to loan repurchase and indemnification claims, including claims for breach of representation and warranty provisions. Due to a recent increased focus by the Agencies to allocate more resources on clearing the backlog of previously requested loan files primarily related to origination years 2005 through 2008, combined with elevated mortgage delinquency rates and declining housing prices, we have experienced, and may in the future continue to experience, an increase in loan repurchase and indemnification claims due to actual or alleged breaches of representations and warranties in connection with our sales or servicing of mortgage loans. The estimation of our loan repurchase and indemnification liability requires subjective and complex judgments and considers our estimates for future repurchase demands based upon recent and historical repurchase and indemnification experience, our success rate in appealing repurchase requests and loss severities. Given these trends, there is a reasonable possibility that losses incurred in connection with actual or projected loan repurchase and indemnification claims will be in excess of our financial statement reserves, and we may be required to increase such reserves and may sustain additional losses associated with such loan repurchase and indemnification claims in the future. In addition, an increased level of repurchase requests could result in an increased use of cash, as compared to prior periods, to fund loan repurchases or make-whole payments under loan indemnification agreements. Accordingly, increases to our reserves and losses incurred in connection with actual loan repurchases and indemnification payments in excess of our reserves could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 18 Table of Contents Our financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates made by our management, including those used in determining the fair values of a substantial portion of our assets. If the assumptions or estimates are subsequently proven incorrect or inaccurate, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we utilize certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including but not limited to when determining the fair values of certain assets and liabilities, reserves related to litigation and regulatory investigations and reserves related to mortgage representations and warranty claims. If the assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience significant losses as the ultimate realization of value may be materially different than the amounts reflected in our consolidated statement of financial position as of any particular date. A substantial portion of our assets are recorded at fair value based upon significant estimates and assumptions with changes in fair value included in our consolidated results of operations. As of December 31, 2012, 36% of our total assets were measured at fair value on a recurring basis, including $1.0 billion of assets representing our Mortgage servicing rights which are valued using significant unobservable inputs and management’s judgment of the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset. The determination of the fair value of our assets involves numerous estimates and assumptions made by our management. Such estimates and assumptions include, without limitation, estimates of future cash flows associated with our mortgage servicing rights based upon assumptions involving interest rates as well as the prepayment rates and delinquencies and foreclosure rates of the underlying serviced mortgage loans. The use of different estimates or assumptions in connection with the valuation of these assets could produce materially different fair values, or our fair value estimates may not be realized in an actual sale or settlement, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Reserves are established for pending or threatened litigation, claims or assessments when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of such loss can be reasonably estimated. In light of the inherent uncertainties involved in litigation and other legal proceedings, it is not always possible to determine a reasonable estimate of the amount of a probable loss, and we may estimate a range of possible loss for consideration in its estimates. The estimates are based upon currently available information and involve significant judgment taking into account the varying stages and inherent uncertainties of such matters. Accordingly, our estimates may change from time to time and such changes may be material to our consolidated results of operations, and the ultimate settlement of such matters may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. For additional information on the key areas for which assumptions and estimates are used in preparing our financial statements, see “Part II—Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in this Form 10K. A failure in or breach of our technology infrastructure or information protection programs, or those of our outsource providers, could result in the inadvertent disclosure of the confidential personal information of our customers, as well as the confidential personal information of the employees and customers of our clients. Any such failure or breach could have a material and adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Our business model and our reputation as a service provider to our clients are dependent upon our ability to safeguard the confidential personal information of our customers, as well as the confidential personal information of the employees and customers of our clients. Although we have put in place a comprehensive information security program that we monitor and update as needed, security breaches could occur through intentional or unintentional acts by individuals having authorized or unauthorized access to confidential information of our customers or the employees or customers of our clients which could potentially compromise confidential information processed and stored in or transmitted through our technology infrastructure. 19 Table of Contents A failure in or breach of the security of our information systems, or those of our outsource providers, could result in significant damage to our reputation or the reputation of our clients, could negatively impact our ability to attract or retain clients and could result in increased costs attributable to related litigation or regulatory actions, claims for indemnification, higher insurance premiums and remediation activities, the result of any of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. Risks Related to our Common Stock There may be a limited public market for our common stock and our stock price may experience volatility. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE, under the symbol “PHH.” However, there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our common stock will be sustained in the future. In addition, the stock market has from time-to-time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Changes in earnings estimates by analysts, our results in relation to such estimates, and economic and other external factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. Fluctuations or decreases in the trading price of our common stock may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our common stock and our ability to raise capital through future equity financing. Future issuances of our Common stock or securities convertible into our Common stock and hedging activities may result in dilution of our stockholders or depress the trading price of our Common stock. The voting power and ownership percentage of our stockholders will be diluted and the trading price of our Common stock could be substantially decreased if we issue any shares of our Common stock or securities convertible into our Common stock in the future, including the issuance of shares of Common stock upon conversion of any existing convertible notes or the issuance of shares of Common stock upon exercise or settlement of any outstanding share-based payment awards granted under the PHH Corporation Amended and Restated 2005 Equity and Incentive Plan. In addition, the price of our Common stock could also be negatively affected by possible sales of our Common stock by investors who engage in hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our Common stock following the issuance of the convertible notes. We also may issue shares of our Common stock or securities convertible into our Common stock in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic collaborations or other transactions), to increase our capital, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our Common stock or securities convertible into our Common stock or the effect, if any, that such future issuances might have to dilute the voting interests of our stockholders or otherwise on the market price for our Common stock. We did not enter into a hedge transaction associated with the issuance of our Convertible notes due 2017. Upon conversion of the Convertible notes due 2017, the principal amount is payable in cash and to the extent the conversion value exceeds the principal amount of the converted notes we are required to pay or deliver (at our election) (i) cash; (ii) shares of our Common stock; or (iii) a combination of cash and shares of Common stock. The increase in, and any further increases in, the trading price of our common stock since the issuance of those notes, will result in a required cash payment upon conversion of the notes or will result in a dilution of the voting power and ownership percentage of the Common stock held by our existing shareholders, either of which may negatively affect the trading price of our Common stock. Convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may negatively affect the value of our Common stock. In connection with the issuance and sale of the Convertible notes due 2014, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions that cover approximately 8,525,484 shares of our Common stock (subject to anti-dilution adjustments) and sold warrants to purchase, subject to anti-dilution adjustments, up to approximately 8,525,484 shares of our Common stock with affiliates of the initial purchasers of the Convertible notes due 2014 (the “Option Counterparties”). The convertible note hedge and warrant transactions are expected to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the notes. 20 Table of Contents In connection with hedging this transaction, the Option Counterparties and/or their respective affiliates entered into various derivative transactions with respect to our Common stock. The Option Counterparties and/or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to our Common stock or by selling or purchasing our Common stock in secondary market transactions while the Convertible Notes are convertible, which could adversely impact the price of our Common stock. In order to unwind their hedge position with respect to those exercised options, the Option Counterparties and/or their respective affiliates are likely to sell shares of our Common stock in secondary transactions or unwind various derivative transactions with respect to our Common stock during the observation period for the converted 2014 Notes. These activities could negatively affect the value of our Common stock. Provisions in our charter documents, the Maryland General Corporation Law, New York insurance law and certain of our debt agreements and indentures may delay or prevent our acquisition by a third party. Our charter and by-laws contain several provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions include, among other things, a classified board of directors, advance notice for raising business or making nominations at meetings and “blank check” preferred stock. Blank check preferred stock enables our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to designate and issue additional series of preferred stock with such dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, including the right to issue convertible securities with no limitations on conversion, as our board of directors may determine, including rights to dividends and proceeds in a liquidation that are senior to the common stock. We are also subject to certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law which could delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their common stock or may otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. These include, among other provisions: § the “business combinations” statute which prohibits transactions between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder and § the “control share” acquisition statute which provides that control shares of a Maryland corporation acquired in a control share acquisition have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Our by-laws contain a provision exempting any share of our capital stock from the control share acquisition statute to the fullest extent permitted by the Maryland General Corporation Law. However, our Board of Directors has the exclusive right to amend our by-laws and, subject to their fiduciary duties, and could at any time in the future amend the by-laws to remove this exemption provision. In addition, we are registered as an insurance holding company in the state of New York as a result of our wholly owned subsidiary, Atrium Insurance Corporation. New York insurance law requires regulatory approval of a change in control of an insurer or an insurer’s holding company. Accordingly, there can be no effective change in control of us unless the person seeking to acquire control has filed a statement containing specified information with the New York state insurance regulators and has obtained prior approval for the proposed change from such regulators. The measure for a presumptive change of control pursuant to New York law is the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting stock or other ownership interest of an insurance company or its parent. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable. The terms of certain of our debt agreements and indentures, including the indentures governing our outstanding Senior notes due 2016 and 2019 and Convertible notes due 2014 and 2017, contain provisions that could prevent or deter a third party from acquiring us. Such indentures may require us to repurchase, for cash, all or a portion of the outstanding notes issued pursuant to such indentures upon a change of control or fundamental change. Further, a change of control or fundamental change may constitute an event of default under certain of our other debt agreements, including our Amended Credit Facility. In addition, in the event of a make-whole fundamental change within the meaning of the indentures governing our Convertible notes due 2014 and 2017, the conversion rate for such Convertible notes may, in some cases, be increased for a holder that elects to convert their notes in connection with such make-whole fundamental change. 21 Table of Contents Certain provisions of the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement and the Strategic Relationship Agreement that we have with Realogy and certain provisions in our other mortgage loan origination agreements could discourage third parties from seeking to acquire us or could reduce the amount of consideration they would be willing to pay our stockholders in an acquisition transaction. Pursuant to the terms of the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement, beginning on February 1, 2015, Realogy will have the right at any time upon two years’ notice to us to terminate its interest in PHH Home Loans. In addition, under the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement, Realogy may terminate PHH Home Loans if we effect a change in control transaction involving certain competitors or other third parties. In connection with such termination, we would be required to make a liquidated damages payment in cash to Realogy of an amount equal to the sum of (i) two times PHH Home Loans’ trailing 12 months net income (except that, in the case of a termination by Realogy following a change in control of us, we may be required to make a cash payment to Realogy in an amount equal to PHH Home Loans’ trailing 12 months net income multiplied by (a) if the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement is terminated prior to its twelfth anniversary, the number of years remaining in the first 12 years of the term of the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement, or (b) if the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement is terminated on or after its tenth anniversary, two years), and (ii) all costs reasonably incurred by Cendant (now known as Avis Budget Group, Inc.) and its subsidiaries in unwinding its relationship with us pursuant to the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement and the related agreements, including the Strategic Relationship Agreement, the Marketing Agreement and the Trademark License Agreements. Pursuant to the terms of the Strategic Relationship Agreement, we are subject to a non-competition provision, the breach of which could result in Realogy having the right to terminate the Strategic Relationship Agreement, seek an injunction prohibiting us from engaging in activities in breach of the non-competition provision or result in our liability for damages to Realogy. In addition, our agreements with some of our financial institution clients provide the applicable financial institution client with the right to terminate its relationship with us prior to the expiration of the contract term if we complete certain change in control transactions with certain third parties. Because we may be unable to obtain consents or waivers from such clients in connection with certain change in control transactions, the existence of these provisions could discourage certain third parties from seeking to acquire us or could reduce the amount of consideration they would be willing to pay to our stockholders in an acquisition transaction. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 