Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to our Business The termination of our status as the exclusive recommended provider of mortgage products and services promoted by the residential and commercial real estate brokerage business owned and operated by Realogy’s affiliate, NRT, the title and settlement services business owned and operated by Realogy’s affiliate, TRG and the relocation business owned and operated by Realogy’s affiliate, Cartus, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Under the terms of the Strategic Relationship Agreement, we are the exclusive recommended provider of mortgage loans to the independent sales associates affiliated with the residential and commercial real estate brokerage business owned and operated by Realogy’s affiliate, NRT, certain customers of Realogy and all U.S.-based employees of Cendant. The Marketing Agreement similarly provides that we are the exclusive recommended provider of mortgage loans and related products to the independent sales associates of Realogy’s real estate brokerage franchisees, which include Coldwell Banker Real Estate Corporation, Century 21 Real Estate LLC, ERA Franchise Systems, Inc. and Sotheby’s International Affiliates, Inc. See “Item 1. Business—Arrangements with Realogy—Mortgage Venture Between Realogy and PHH,” “— Strategic Relationship Agreement” and “— Marketing Agreements” in this Form 10-K for more information. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 44% of loans originated by our Mortgage Production segment were derived from NRT and Cartus. We anticipate that a similar portion of mortgage loan originations from our Mortgage Production segment during 2008 will be comprised of business arising out of our arrangements with Realogy. Pursuant to the terms of the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement, beginning on February 1, 2015, Realogy will have the right at any time upon two years’ notice to us to terminate its interest in the Mortgage Venture. A termination of the Mortgage Venture could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, the Strategic Relationship Agreement provides that Realogy has the right to terminate the covenant requiring it to exclusively recommend us as the provider of mortgage loans to the independent sales associates affiliated with the residential and commercial real estate brokerage business owned 32 Table of Contents and operated by Realogy’s affiliate, NRT, certain customers of Realogy, and all U.S.-based employees of Cendant, following notice and a cure period, if: § we materially breach any representation, warranty, covenant or other agreement contained in the Strategic Relationship Agreement, the Marketing Agreement, the Trademark License Agreements or certain other related agreements; § we or the Mortgage Venture become subject to any regulatory order or governmental proceeding and such order or proceeding prevents or materially impairs the Mortgage Venture’s ability to originate mortgage loans for any period of time (which order or proceeding is not generally applicable to companies in the mortgage lending business) in a manner that adversely affects the value of one or more of the quarterly distributions to be paid by the Mortgage Venture pursuant to the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement; § the Mortgage Venture otherwise is not permitted by law, regulation, rule, order or other legal restriction to perform its origination function in any jurisdiction, but in such case exclusivity may be terminated only with respect to such jurisdiction or § the Mortgage Venture does not comply with its obligations to complete an acquisition of a mortgage loan origination company under the terms of the Strategic Relationship Agreement. If Realogy were to terminate its exclusivity obligations with respect to the Mortgage Venture, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Adverse developments in general business, economic, environmental and political conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our businesses and operations are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the U.S. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, including the secondary market for mortgage loans, and the general condition of the U.S. economy and housing market, both nationally and in the regions in which we conduct our businesses. A significant portion of our mortgage loan originations are made in a small number of geographical areas which include: California, New Jersey, Florida, New York, Texas and Pennsylvania. An economic downturn in one or more of these geographical areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. A host of factors beyond our control could cause fluctuations in these conditions, including political events, such as civil unrest, war or acts or threats of war or terrorism and environmental events, such as hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters. Adverse developments in these conditions and resulting general business and economic conditions, including through recession, downturn or otherwise, either in the economy generally or in those regions in which a large portion of our business is conducted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our business is significantly affected by monetary and related policies of the federal government, its agencies and government-sponsored entities. We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. The Federal Reserve Board’s policies affect the size of the mortgage origination market, the pricing of our interest-earning assets and the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in any of these policies are beyond our control, difficult to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We might be prevented from selling and/or securitizing our mortgage loans at opportune times and prices, if at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We rely on selling or securitizing our mortgage loan production to generate cash for the repayment of our financing facilities, production of new mortgage loans and general working capital purposes. We bear the risk of being unable to sell or securitize our mortgage loans at advantageous times and prices or in a timely manner. If it is not possible or economical for us to complete the sale or securitization of a substantial portion of our mortgage loans, our growth may be limited by available capacity under our credit facilities, and therefore, we may be unable 33 Table of Contents to fund future loan commitments, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. There can be no assurances that we will continue to be successful in securitizing mortgage loans on terms favorable to us, if at all. The securitization market and our ability to complete securitizations of our mortgage loans depends upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, conditions in the securities markets generally, conditions in the asset-backed securities market specifically and the availability of credit enhancements and the performance of our mortgage loans. Demand in the secondary mortgage market for non-conforming loans was adversely impacted during the second half of 2007 and through the filing date of this Form 10-K. The deterioration of liquidity in the secondary market for these non-conforming loan products, including jumbo, Alt-A and second lien products and loans with origination flaws or performance issues (“Scratch and Dent Loans”), negatively impacted the price which could be obtained for such products in the secondary market. These loans experienced both a reduction in overall investor demand and discounted pricing which negatively impacted the value of the underlying loans as well as the execution of related secondary market loan sales. The valuation of Mortgage loans held for sale, net as of December 31, 2007 reflected this discounted pricing, with the most significant pricing discounts related to Scratch and Dent Loans and closed-end second lien loans. The unpaid principal balance of Scratch and Dent Loans and closed-end second lien loans decreased from $355 million as of September 30, 2007 to $86 million as of December 31, 2007, primarily due to the sale or securitization of these loans during the fourth quarter of 2007. The lack of investor demand for these mortgage loan products has also adversely affected banks’ willingness to lend money secured by such mortgages, which may reduce the funds available to us for the origination of mortgage loan products or increase our cost of funds. Although we have been able to continually access the secondary mortgage market through the filing date of this Form 10-K, further disruptions in the secondary mortgage market may reduce our ability to generate sufficient liquidity from loan sales in the future to continue our operations and manage our exposure to interest rate risk. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Recent developments in the secondary mortgage market could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The deterioration in the secondary mortgage market discussed above has caused a number of mortgage loan originators to take one or more of the following actions: revise their underwriting guidelines for Alt-A and non-conforming products, increase the interest rates charged on these products, impose more restrictive credit standards on borrowers or decrease permitted loan-to-value ratios. We expect that this shift in production efforts to more traditional prime loan products by these originators will result in increased competition in the mortgage industry, which could have a negative impact on profit margins for our Mortgage Production segment during 2008. While we have adjusted pricing and margin expectations for new mortgage loan originations to reflect current secondary mortgage market conditions, market developments negatively impacted Gain on sale of mortgage loans, net in 2007, and may continue to have a negative impact during 2008. As a result of these changes, many non-conforming loan products have become more costly for potential borrowers or, in some cases, unavailable. This has in turn limited the ability of some borrowers to refinance out of existing mortgages, leading to further delinquency, default and foreclosure. These factors, among others, have weakened the housing market by making borrowing more expensive and restrictive while the number of units for sale has grown, resulting in a supply-demand imbalance. Based on home sale trends during 2007 and through the filing date of this Form 10-K, we expect that home sale volumes and our purchase originations will decrease during 2008. As a result of these factors, we expect that the competitive pricing environment in the mortgage industry will continue during 2008 as excess origination capacity and lower origination volumes put pressure on production margins and ultimately result in further industry consolidation. This could negatively affect our revenues and margins on new originations, and our access to the secondary mortgage market may be reduced, restricted or less profitable than in the current industry environment. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 34 Table of Contents Downward trends in the real estate market could adversely impact our business, profitability or results of operations. The residential real estate market in the U.S. has experienced a significant downturn due to substantially declining mortgage loan origination volumes, declining real estate values and the disruption in the credit markets, including a significant contraction in available liquidity globally. These factors have continued into the beginning of 2008 and, combined with rising oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown. Further declines in real estate values in the U.S., continuing credit and liquidity tightening and a continuing economic slowdown could negatively impact our mortgage loan originations and the performance of the underlying loans in our loan servicing portfolio. During 2007, we experienced an increase in foreclosure losses and related credit reserves primarily due to an increase in loss severity due to a decline in housing prices in 2007 compared to 2006 and increased foreclosure frequency due to higher mortgage loan delinquencies. Foreclosure losses during 2007 were $20 million compared to $17 million during 2006. During 2007, foreclosure related reserves increased by $13 million to $49 million as of December 31, 2007. We expect delinquency and foreclosure rates to remain high during 2008, and, as a result, we expect that we will continue to experience higher foreclosure losses in 2008 as compared to prior periods. These developments could also have a negative impact on our reinsurance business as further declines in real estate values and a continued negative economic outlook could adversely impact borrowers’ ability to repay mortgage loans. During 2007, reinsurance related reserves increased by $15 million to $32 million, which is reflective of these recent trends, and we expect reinsurance related reserves to continue to increase during 2008. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Recent developments in the asset-backed securities market have negatively affected the value of our MLHS and our costs of funds, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The adverse conditions in the U.S. housing market, dislocations in the credit markets and corrections in certain asset-backed security market segments resulted in substantial valuation reductions in the past fiscal year, most significantly on mortgage backed securities. Market credit spreads have recently gone from historically tight to historically wide levels, and a further widening of credit spreads or worsening of credit market dislocations or sustained market downturns could have additional negative effects on the value of our MLHS. The asset-backed securities market in general has experienced significant disruptions and deterioration, the effects of which have not been limited to MBS. As a result of the deterioration in the asset-backed securities market, the costs associated with ABCP issued by the multi-seller conduits, which fund the Chesapeake Series 2006-1 and Series 2006-2 notes, in particular, were negatively impacted beginning in the third quarter of 2007. Accordingly, we anticipate that the costs of funding through multi-seller conduits, including conduit fees and relative spreads of ABCP to broader market indices will be adversely impacted in 2008 compared to such costs prior to the disruption in the asset-backed securities market. Increases in conduit fees and the relative spreads of ABCP to broader market indices are components of Fleet interest expense which are currently not fully recovered through billings to the clients of our Fleet Management Services segment. As a result we expect that these costs may adversely impact the results of operations for our Fleet Management Services segment. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, liquidity or results of operations both for our Fleet Management Services segment and our Company as a whole. Our business is affected by fluctuations in interest rates, and if we fail to manage our exposure to changes in interest rates effectively, our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. Our principal market exposure is to interest rate risk, specifically long-term U.S. Treasury (“Treasury”) and mortgage interest rates due to their impact on mortgage-related assets and commitments. We also have exposure to LIBOR and commercial paper interest rates due to their impact on variable-rate borrowings, other interest rate-sensitive liabilities and net investment in variable-rate lease assets. The level and volatility of interest rates significantly affect the mortgage lending industry. A decline in mortgage interest rates generally increases the 35 Table of Contents demand for home loans as more potential homeowners seek mortgage loans and more borrowers seek to refinance existing loans, but also generally leads to accelerated payoffs in our mortgage servicing portfolio, which negatively impacts the value of our MSRs. Historically, as interest rates increase, mortgage loan production decreases, particularly production from loan refinancing. An environment of gradual interest rate increases may, however, signify an improving economy or increasing real estate values, which in turn may stimulate increased home buying activity. Generally, in periods of reduced mortgage loan production, the associated profit margins also decline due to increased competition among mortgage loan originators and higher unit costs, thus further reducing our mortgage production revenues. Conversely, in a rising interest rate environment, mortgage loan servicing revenues generally increase because mortgage prepayment rates tend to decrease, extending the average life of our servicing portfolio and increasing the value of our MSRs. We attempt to manage our interest rate risk, in part, through the use of derivatives, including swap contracts, forward delivery commitments, futures and options contracts to manage and reduce this risk. Our main objective in managing interest rate risk is to moderate the impact of changes in interest rates on our earnings over time. Our interest rate risk management strategies may result in significant earnings volatility in the short term. The success of our interest rate risk management strategy is largely dependent on our ability to predict the earnings sensitivity of our loan servicing and loan production activities in various interest rate environments, which is inherently uncertain. Significant changes in current market conditions and/or the assumptions used (including the relationship of the change in the value of the MSRs to the change in the value of derivatives) in developing our estimates of borrower behavior and future interest rates could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Certain hedging strategies that we use to manage interest rate risk associated with our MSRs and other mortgage-related assets and commitments may not be effective in mitigating those risks. We employ various economic hedging strategies to attempt to mitigate the interest rate and prepayment risk inherent in many of our assets, including our MLHS, interest rate lock commitments (“IRLCs”) and our MSRs. We use various derivative and other financial instruments to provide a level of protection against interest rate risks, but no hedging strategy can protect us completely. Our hedging activities may include entering into interest rate swaps, caps and floors, options to purchase these items, futures and forward contracts and/or purchasing or selling Treasury securities. Our hedging decisions in the future will be determined in light of the facts and circumstances existing at the time and may differ from our current hedging strategy. We also seek to manage interest rate risk in our Mortgage Production and Mortgage Servicing segments partially by monitoring and seeking to maintain an appropriate balance between our loan production volume and the size of our mortgage servicing portfolio, as the value of MSRs and the income they provide tend to be counter-cyclical to the changes in production volumes and gain or loss on sale of loans that result from changes in interest rates. Our hedging strategies may not be effective in mitigating the risks related to changes in interest rates. Poorly designed strategies or improperly executed transactions could actually increase our risk and losses. There have been periods, and it is likely that there will be periods in the future, during which we incur losses after accounting for our hedging strategies. As stated earlier, the success of our interest rate risk management strategy is largely dependent on our ability to predict the earnings sensitivity of our loan servicing and loan production activities in various interest rate environments. Our hedging strategies also rely on assumptions and projections regarding our assets and general market factors. If these assumptions and projections prove to be incorrect or our hedges do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds, we may incur losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We are exposed to counterparty credit risk and there can be no assurances that we will manage or mitigate this risk effectively. We are exposed to counterparty credit risk in the event of non-performance by counterparties to various agreements and sales transactions. The insolvency or other inability of a significant counterparty to perform its obligations under an agreement or transaction, including, without limitation, as a result of the rejection of an agreement or transaction by a counterparty in bankruptcy proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We manage such risk by evaluating the financial position and creditworthiness of such counterparties and/or requiring collateral, typically cash, in instances in which financing is provided. We mitigate counterparty credit risk associated with our derivative contracts by 36 Table of Contents monitoring the amount for which we are at risk with each counterparty to such contracts, requiring collateral posting, typically cash, above established credit limits, periodically evaluating counterparty creditworthiness and financial position, and where possible, dispersing the risk among multiple counterparties. There can be no assurances, however, that we will be effective in managing or mitigating our counterparty credit risk, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Our business relies on various sources of funding, including unsecured credit facilities and other unsecured debt, as well as secured funding arrangements, including asset-backed securities, mortgage repurchase facilities and other secured credit facilities. If any of our funding arrangements are terminated or not renewed, we may be unable to find replacement financing on commercially favorable terms, if at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our business relies on various sources of funding, including unsecured credit facilities and other unsecured debt, as well as secured funding arrangements, including asset-backed securities, mortgage repurchase facilities and other secured credit facilities to fund mortgage loans and vehicle acquisitions, a significant portion of which is short-term. The availability of asset-backed debt for vehicle acquisitions for our Fleet Management Services segment’s leasing operations, in particular, could suffer in the event of: (i) the deterioration of the assets underlying the asset-backed debt arrangement; (ii) our inability to access the asset-backed debt market to refinance maturing debt or (iii) termination of our role as servicer of the underlying lease assets in the event that we default in the performance of our servicing obligations or we declare bankruptcy or become insolvent. In addition, the availability of the mortgage asset-backed debt could suffer in the event of: (i) the deterioration in the performance of the mortgage loans underlying the asset-backed debt arrangement; (ii) our failure to maintain sufficient levels of eligible assets or credit enhancements; (iii) our inability to access the asset-backed debt market to refinance maturing debt; (iv) our inability to access the secondary market for mortgage loans or (v) termination of our role as servicer of the underlying mortgage assets in the event that (a) we default in the performance of our servicing obligations or (b) we declare bankruptcy or become insolvent. If any of our warehouse, repurchase or other credit facilities are terminated, including as a result of our breach, or are not renewed, we may be unable to find replacement financing on commercially favorable terms, if at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Finally, our access to the unsecured debt markets is subject to prevailing market conditions. The recent disruption in the asset-backed securities market and the resulting impact on the availability of funding generally for financial services companies may limit our access to one or more of the funding sources discussed above, and may result in more restrictive covenants, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, as a result of the deterioration in the credit markets, the costs associated with our warehouse and repurchase facilities were negatively impacted beginning in the third quarter of 2007. Accordingly, the costs associated with our warehouse, repurchase and other credit facilities, including relative spreads and conduit fees, will be adversely impacted in 2008 compared to such costs prior to the disruption in the credit market, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive and, if we fail to meet the competitive challenges in our industries, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We operate in highly competitive industries that could become even more competitive as a result of economic, legislative, regulatory and technological changes. Certain of our competitors are larger than we are and have access to greater financial resources than we do. Competition for mortgage loans comes primarily from large commercial banks and savings institutions, which typically have lower funding costs and are less reliant than we are on the sale of mortgages into the secondary markets to maintain their liquidity. In addition, technological advances and heightened e-commerce activity have generally increased consumers’ access to products and services. This has intensified competition among banking, as well as non-banking companies, in offering financial products and services, with or without the need for a physical presence. If competition in the mortgage services industry continues to increase, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 37 Table of Contents The deterioration in the secondary mortgage market has caused a number of mortgage loan originators to take one or more of the following actions: revise their underwriting guidelines for Alt-A and non-conforming products, increase the interest rates charged on these products, impose more restrictive credit standards on borrowers or decrease permitted loan-to-value ratios. We expect that this shift in production efforts to more traditional prime loan products by these originators will result in increased competition in the mortgage industry, which could have a negative impact on profit margins for our Mortgage Production segment during 2008. As a result of these factors, we expect that the competitive pricing environment in the mortgage industry will continue during 2008 as excess origination capacity and lower origination volumes put pressure on production margins and ultimately result in further industry consolidation. The fleet management industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We compete against large national competitors, such as GE Commercial Finance Fleet Services, Wheels, Inc., Automotive Resources International, Lease Plan International and other local and regional competitors, including numerous competitors who focus on one or two products. Competitive pressures could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations by decreasing our market share or depressing the prices that we can charge. Changes in existing U.S. government-sponsored mortgage programs could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our ability to generate revenues through mortgage loan sales to institutional investors depends to a significant degree on programs administered by government-sponsored enterprises such as Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and others that facilitate the issuance of MBS in the secondary market. These government-sponsored enterprises play a powerful role in the residential mortgage industry, and we have significant business relationships with them. Proposals are being considered in Congress and by various regulatory authorities that would affect the manner in which these government-sponsored enterprises conduct their business, including proposals to establish a new independent agency to regulate the government-sponsored enterprises, to require them to register their stock with the SEC, to reduce or limit certain business benefits that they receive from the U.S. government and to limit the size of the mortgage loan portfolios that they may hold. Any discontinuation of, or significant reduction in, the operation of these government-sponsored enterprises could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Also, any significant adverse change in the level of activity in the secondary market or the underwriting criteria of these government-sponsored enterprises could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The businesses in which we engage are complex and heavily regulated, and changes in the regulatory environment affecting our businesses could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations that affect our business, including mortgage- and real estate-related regulations such as RESPA, which restricts the payment of fees or other consideration for the referral of real estate settlement services, including mortgage loans, as well as rules and regulations related to taxation, vicarious liability, insurance and accounting. Our Mortgage Production and Mortgage Servicing segments, in general, are heavily regulated by mortgage lending laws at the federal, state and local levels, and proposals for further regulation of the financial services industry, including recently proposed and enacted regulations addressing borrowers with blemished credit and non-traditional mortgage products, are continually being introduced. The establishment of the Mortgage Venture and the continuing relationships between and among the Mortgage Venture, Realogy and us are subject to the anti-kickback requirements of RESPA. The Home Mortgage Disclosure Act requires us to disclose certain information about the mortgage loans we originate and purchase, such as the race and gender of our customers, the disposition of mortgage applications, income levels and interest rate (i.e. annual percentage rate) information. We believe that publication of such information may lead to heightened scrutiny of all mortgage lenders’ loan pricing and underwriting practices. During 2007, the majority of states regulating mortgage lending adopted, through statute, regulation or otherwise, some version of the guidance on non-traditional mortgage loans issued by the federal financial regulatory agencies in 2006 and 2007. These requirements address issues relating to certain non-traditional mortgage products and lending practices, including interest-only loans and reduced documentation programs, and impact certain of our 38 Table of Contents disclosure, qualification and documentation practices with respect to these programs. Any violation of these guidelines could materially and adversely impact our reputation or our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We are also subject to privacy regulations. We manage highly sensitive non-public personal information in all of our operating segments, which is regulated by law. Problems with the safeguarding and proper use of this information could result in regulatory actions and negative publicity, which could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. With respect to our Fleet Management Services segment, we could be subject to unlimited liability as the owner of leased vehicles in one major province in Canada and are subject to limited liability in two major provinces, Ontario and British Columbia, and as many as fifteen jurisdictions in the U.S. under the legal theory of vicarious liability. Congress, state legislatures, federal and state regulatory agencies and other professional and regulatory entities review existing laws, rules, regulations and policies and periodically propose changes that could significantly affect or restrict the manner in which we conduct our business. It is possible that one or more legislative proposals may be adopted or one or more regulatory changes, changes in interpretations of laws and regulations, judicial decisions or governmental enforcement actions may be implemented that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. For example, certain trends in the regulatory environment could result in increased pressure from our clients for us to assume more residual risk on the value of the vehicles at the end of the lease term. If this were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our failure to comply with such laws, rules or regulations, whether actual or alleged, could expose us to fines, penalties or potential litigation liabilities, including costs, settlements and judgments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our Fleet Management Services business contracts with various government agencies, which may be subject to audit and potential reduction of costs and fees. Contracts with federal, state and local government agencies may be subject to audits, which could result in the disallowance of certain fees and costs. These audits may be conducted by government agencies and can result in the disallowance of significant costs and expenses if the auditing agency determines, in its discretion, that certain costs and expenses were not warranted or were excessive. Disallowance of costs and expenses, if pervasive or significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business. If certain change in control transactions occur, some of our mortgage loan origination arrangements with financial institutions could be subject to termination at the election of such institutions. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 55% of our mortgage loan originations were derived from our financial institutions channel, pursuant to which we provide outsourced mortgage loan services for customers of our financial institution clients such as Merrill Lynch, TD Banknorth, N.A. and Charles Schwab Bank. Our agreements with some of these financial institutions provide the applicable financial institution with the right to terminate its relationship with us prior to the expiration of the contract term if we complete a change in control transaction with certain third-party acquirers. Accordingly, if we are unable to obtain consents to or waivers of certain rights of certain of our clients in connection with certain change in control transactions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Although in some cases these contracts would require the payment of liquidated damages in such an event, such amounts may not fully compensate us for all of our actual or expected loss of business opportunity for the remaining duration of the contract term. The existence of these termination provisions could discourage third parties from seeking to acquire us or could reduce the amount of consideration they would be willing to pay to our stockholders in an acquisition transaction. Unanticipated liabilities of our Fleet Management Services segment as a result of damages in connection with motor vehicle accidents under the theory of vicarious liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 39 Table of Contents Our Fleet Management Services segment could be liable for damages in connection with motor vehicle accidents under the theory of vicarious liability in certain jurisdictions in which we do business. Under this theory, companies that lease motor vehicles may be subject to liability for the tortious acts of their lessees, even in situations where the leasing company has not been negligent. Our Fleet Management Services segment is subject to unlimited liability as the owner of leased vehicles in one major province in Canada and is subject to limited liability (e.g., in the event of a lessee’s failure to meet certain insurance or financial responsibility requirements) in two major provinces, Ontario and British Columbia, and as many as fifteen jurisdictions in the U.S. Although our lease contracts require that each lessee indemnifies us against such liabilities, in the event that a lessee lacks adequate insurance coverage or financial resources to satisfy these indemnity provisions, we could be liable for property damage or injuries caused by the vehicles that we lease. On August 10, 2005, a federal law was enacted in the U.S. which preempted state vicarious liability laws that imposed unlimited liability on a vehicle lessor. This law, however, does not preempt existing state laws that impose limited liability on a vehicle lessor in the event that certain insurance or financial responsibility requirements for the leased vehicles are not met. Prior to the enactment of this law, our Fleet Management Services segment was subject to unlimited liability in the District of Columbia, Maine and New York. It is unclear at this time whether any of these three jurisdictions will enact legislation imposing limited or an alternative form of liability on vehicle lessors. In addition, the scope, application and enforceability of this federal law have not been fully tested. For example, a state trial court in New York has ruled that the law is unconstitutional. On February 1, 2008, the intermediate New York Court of Appeals reversed the trial court and upheld the constitutionality of the federal law. The ultimate disposition of this New York case and cases that are pending in other jurisdictions and their impact on the federal law are uncertain at this time. Additionally, a law was enacted in the Province of Ontario setting a cap of $1 million on a lessor’s liability for personal injuries for accidents occurring on or after March 1, 2006. A similar law went into effect in the Providence of British Columbia effective November 8, 2007. The British Columbia law also includes a cap of $1 million on a lessor’s liability. In December 2007, the Province of Alberta legislature adopted a vicarious liability bill with provisions similar to the Ontario and British Columbia statutes, including a cap of $1 million on a lessor’s liability, but an effective date has not yet been established. The scope, application and enforceability of these provincial laws have not been fully tested. A failure to maintain our investment grade ratings could impact our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms and could negatively impact our business. In the event our credit ratings were to drop below investment grade, our access to the public debt markets may be severely limited. The cut-off for investment grade is generally considered to be a long-term rating of Baa3, BBB- and BBB- for Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, respectively. As of February 25, 2008, our senior unsecured long-term debt credit ratings from Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings were Baa3, BBB- and BBB+, respectively, and our short-term debt credit ratings were P-3, A-3 and F-2, respectively. Also as of February 25, 2008, the ratings outlooks on our unsecured debt provided by both Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings were Negative and Standard & Poor’s was on CreditWatch with developing implications. In the event of a ratings downgrade below investment grade, we may be required to rely upon alternative sources of financing, such as bank lines and private debt placements (secured and unsecured). Declines in our credit ratings would also increase our cost of borrowing under our credit facilities. Furthermore, we may be unable to retain all of our existing bank credit commitments beyond the then-existing maturity dates. As a consequence, our cost of financing could rise significantly, thereby negatively impacting our ability to finance some of our capital-intensive activities, such as our ongoing investment in MSRs and other retained interests. Among other things, maintenance of our investment grade ratings requires that we demonstrate high levels of liquidity, including access to alternative sources of funding such as committed bank stand-by lines of credit, as well as a capital structure, leverage and maturities for indebtedness appropriate for companies in our industry. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial position and results of operations, and they require management to make assumptions and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. 40 Table of Contents Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial position and results of operations. We have identified several accounting policies as being critical to the presentation of our financial position and results of operations because they require management to make particularly subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be recorded under different conditions or using different assumptions. Because of the inherent uncertainty of the estimates and assumptions associated with these critical accounting policies, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not make subsequent significant adjustments to the related amounts recorded in this Form 10-K. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies” for more information on our critical accounting policies. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our reported revenues, profitability or financial position. Our financial statements are subject to the application of accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“GAAP”), which are periodically revised and/or expanded. The application of accounting principles is also subject to varying interpretations over time. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards or comply with revised interpretations that are issued from time-to-time by recognized authoritative bodies, including the FASB and the SEC. Those changes could adversely affect our reported revenues, profitability or financial position. In addition, new or revised accounting standards may impact certain of our leasing or lending products, which could adversely affect our profitability. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information provided by or on behalf of our customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. Our financial position and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we rely on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or are materially misleading. An interruption in or breach of our information systems may result in lost business, regulatory actions or litigation or may otherwise have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, business prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure or interruption of our information systems or the third-party information systems on which we rely could cause underwriting or other delays and could result in fewer loan applications being received, slower processing of applications and reduced efficiency in loan servicing in our Mortgage Production and Mortgage Servicing segments, as well as business interruptions in our Fleet Management Services segment. We are required to comply with significant federal, state and foreign laws and regulations in various jurisdictions in which we operate, with respect to the handling of consumer information, and a breach in the security of our information systems could result in regulatory actions and litigation against us. If a failure, interruption or breach occurs, it may not be adequately addressed by us or the third parties on which we rely. Such a failure, interruption or breach could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, business prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The success and growth of our business may be adversely affected if we do not adapt to and implement technological changes. Our business is dependent upon technological advancement, such as the ability to process loan applications over the internet, accept electronic payments and provide immediate status updates to our clients and customers. To the extent that we become reliant on any particular technology or technological solution, we may be harmed if the technology or technological solution: § becomes non-compliant with existing industry standards or is no longer supported by vendors; 41 Table of Contents § fails to meet or exceed the capabilities of our competitors’ corresponding technologies or technological solutions; § becomes increasingly expensive to service, retain and update; or § becomes subject to third-party claims of copyright or patent infringement. Our failure to acquire necessary technologies or technological solutions could limit our ability to remain competitive and could also limit our ability to increase our cost efficiencies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Risks Related to the Spin-Off Our agreements with Cendant and Realogy may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations between unaffiliated parties. The agreements related to our separation from Cendant and the continuation of certain business arrangements with Cendant and Realogy, including the Separation Agreement, the Transition Services Agreement, the Strategic Relationship Agreement, the Marketing Agreement and other agreements, were not the result of arm’s-length negotiations and thus may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm’s-length negotiations between two unaffiliated parties. This could include, among other things, the allocation of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnities and other obligations between Cendant, Realogy and us. See “Item 1. Business—Arrangements with Cendant” and “— Arrangements with Realogy” for more information. In connection with the Spin-Off, we entered into several contracts with Cendant’s real estate services division to provide for the continuation of certain business arrangements, including the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement, the Strategic Relationship Agreement, the Marketing Agreement, and the Trademark License Agreements. Cendant’s real estate services division, Realogy, became an independent, publicly traded company pursuant to the Realogy Spin-Off effective July 31, 2006. On April 10, 2007, Realogy became a wholly owned subsidiary of Domus Holdings Corp., an affiliate of Apollo Management VI, L.P., following the completion of a merger and related transactions. As a result of the Realogy Spin-Off, we determined that certain amendments to our agreements with Realogy may be necessary or appropriate. There can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain any required amendments we believe may be necessary or appropriate or that if obtained, that these amendments will be on terms favorable to us. We may be required to satisfy certain indemnification obligations to Cendant or Realogy, or we may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from Cendant or Realogy. In connection with the Spin-Off, we and Cendant and our respective affiliates have agreed to indemnify each other for certain liabilities and obligations. Our indemnification obligations could be significant. We are required to indemnify Cendant for any taxes incurred by it and its affiliates as a result of any action, misrepresentation or omission by us or one of our subsidiaries that causes the distribution of our Common stock by Cendant or transactions relating to the internal reorganization to fail to qualify as tax-free. We are also responsible for 13.7% of any taxes resulting from the failure of the Spin-Off or transactions relating to the internal reorganization to qualify as tax-free, which failure is not due to the actions, misrepresentations or omissions of Cendant or us or our respective subsidiaries. Such percentage was based on the relative pro forma net book values of Cendant and us as of September 30, 2004, without giving effect to any adjustments to the book values of certain long-lived assets that may be required as a result of the Spin-Off and the related transactions. We cannot determine whether we will have to indemnify Cendant or its current or former affiliates for any substantial obligations in the future. There also can be no assurance that if Cendant or Realogy is required to indemnify us for any substantial obligations, they will be able to satisfy those obligations. Certain arrangements and agreements that we have entered into with Cendant in connection with the Spin-Off could impact our tax and other assets and liabilities in the future, and our financial statements are subject to future adjustments as a result of our obligations under those arrangements and agreements. In connection with the Spin-Off, we entered into certain arrangements and agreements with Cendant that could impact our tax and other assets and liabilities in the future. See “Item 1. Business—Arrangements with Cendant” for 42 Table of Contents more information. For example, we are party to the Amended Tax Sharing Agreement with Cendant that contains provisions governing the allocation of liabilities for taxes between Cendant and us, indemnification for certain tax liabilities and responsibility for preparing and filing tax returns and defending contested tax positions, as well as other tax-related matters including the sharing of tax information and cooperating with the preparation and filing of tax returns. Pursuant to the Amended Tax Sharing Agreement, our tax assets and liabilities may be affected by Cendant’s future tax returns and may also be impacted by the results of audits of Cendant’s prior tax years, including the settlement of any such audits. See Note 17, “Commitments and Contingencies” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. Consequently, our financial statements are subject to future adjustments which may not be fully resolved until the audits of Cendant’s prior years’ returns are completed. Our historical financial information may not be representative of results we would have achieved as an independent company or will achieve in the future. Because our business has changed substantially due to the internal reorganization in connection with the Spin-Off and we now conduct our business as an independent, publicly traded company, our historical financial information does not reflect what our results of operations, financial position or cash flows would have been had we been an independent, publicly traded company during all of the periods presented. For this reason, as well as the inherent uncertainties of our business, the historical financial information for such periods is not indicative of what our results of operations, financial position or cash flows will be in the future. See Note 24, “Discontinued Operations” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. Risks Related to our Common Stock There may be a limited public market for our Common stock and our stock price may experience volatility. Prior to the Spin-Off, there was no public market for our Common stock. In connection with the Spin-Off, our Common stock was listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) under the symbol “PHH.” From February 1, 2005 through February 15, 2008, the closing trading price for our Common stock has ranged from $15.08 to $31.40. However, there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our Common stock will be sustained in the future. In addition, the stock market has from time-to-time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Changes in earnings estimates by analysts and economic and other external factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our Common stock. Fluctuations or decreases in the trading price of our Common stock may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our Common stock and our ability to raise capital through future equity financing. Provisions in our charter documents, the Maryland General Corporation Law (the “MGCL”) and our stockholder rights plan may delay or prevent our acquisition by a third party. Our charter and by-laws contain several provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions include, among other things, a classified Board of Directors, advance notice for raising business or making nominations at meetings and “blank check” preferred stock. Blank check preferred stock enables our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to designate and issue additional series of preferred stock with such dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, including the right to issue convertible securities with no limitations on conversion, as our Board of Directors may determine, including rights to dividends and proceeds in a liquidation that are senior to the Common stock. We are also subject to certain provisions of the MGCL which could delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their Common stock or may otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. These include, among other provisions: § The “business combinations” statute which prohibits transactions between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder and 43 Table of Contents § The “control share” acquisition statute which provides that control shares of a Maryland corporation acquired in a control share acquisition have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Our by-laws contain a provision exempting any share of our capital stock from the control share acquisition statute to the fullest extent permitted by the MGCL. However, our Board of Directors has the exclusive right to amend our by-laws and, subject to their fiduciary duties, could at any time in the future amend the by-laws to remove this exemption provision. In addition, we entered into the Rights Agreement, dated as of January 28, 2005, with The Bank of New York, as rights agent (the “Rights Agreement”). This agreement entitles our stockholders to acquire shares of our Common stock at a price equal to 50% of the then-current market value in limited circumstances when a third party acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our outstanding Common stock or commences a tender offer for at least 15% of our Common stock, in each case, in a transaction that our Board of Directors does not approve. Because, under these limited circumstances, all of our stockholders would become entitled to effect discounted purchases of our Common stock, other than the person or group that caused the rights to become exercisable, the existence of these rights would significantly increase the cost of acquiring control of our company without the support of our Board of Directors. The existence of the Rights Agreement could therefore deter potential acquirers and reduce the likelihood that stockholders receive a premium for our Common stock in an acquisition. Certain provisions of the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement and the Strategic Relationship Agreement that we have with Realogy could discourage third parties from seeking to acquire us or could reduce the amount of consideration they would be willing to pay our stockholders in an acquisition transaction. Pursuant to the terms of the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement, Realogy has the right to terminate the Mortgage Venture, at its election, at any time on or after February 1, 2015 by providing two years’ notice to us. In addition, under the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement, Realogy may terminate the Mortgage Venture if we effect a change in control transaction involving certain competitors or other third parties. In connection with such termination, we would be required to make a liquidated damages payment in cash to Realogy of an amount equal to the sum of (i) two times the Mortgage Venture’s trailing 12 months net income (except that, in the case of a termination by Realogy following a change in control of us, we may be required to make a cash payment to Realogy in an amount equal to the Mortgage Venture’s trailing 12 months net income multiplied by (a) if the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement is terminated prior to its twelfth anniversary, the number of years remaining in the first 12 years of the term of the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement, or (b) if the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement is terminated on or after its tenth anniversary, two years), and (ii) all costs reasonably incurred by Cendant and its subsidiaries in unwinding its relationship with us pursuant to the Mortgage Venture Operating Agreement and the related agreements, including the Strategic Relationship Agreement, the Marketing Agreement and the Trademark License Agreements. Pursuant to the terms of the Strategic Relationship Agreement, we are subject to a non-competition provision, the breach of which could result in Realogy having the right to terminate the Strategic Relationship Agreement, seek an injunction prohibiting us from engaging in activities in breach of the non-competition provision or result in our liability for damages to Realogy. The existence of these provisions could discourage certain third parties from seeking to acquire us or could reduce the amount of consideration they would be willing to pay to our stockholders in an acquisition transaction. See “Item 1. Business—Arrangements with Realogy—Mortgage Venture Between Realogy and PHH” for more information. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 