Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to our Company The businesses in which we engage are complex and heavily regulated, and changes in the regulatory environment affecting our businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our Mortgage Production and Mortgage Servicing segments are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations and may be subject to various judicial and administrative decisions imposing various requirements and restrictions on our business. These laws, regulations and judicial and administrative decisions to which our Mortgage Production and Mortgage Servicing segments are subject include those pertaining to: real estate settlement procedures; fair lending; fair credit reporting; truth in lending; compliance with net worth and financial statement delivery requirements; compliance with federal and state disclosure and licensing requirements; the establishment of maximum interest rates, finance charges and other charges; secured transactions; collection, foreclosure, repossession and claims-handling procedures; other trade practices and privacy regulations providing for the use and safeguarding of non-public personal financial information of borrowers and guidance on non-traditional mortgage loans issued by the federal financial regulatory agencies. By agreement with our private-label clients, we are required to comply with additional requirements that our clients may be subject to through their regulators. During the third quarter of 2010, several of our mortgage servicing competitors announced the suspension of foreclosure proceedings in various judicial foreclosure states due to concerns associated with the preparation and execution of affidavits used in connection with foreclosure proceedings in such states. Due in part to these announcements, we have received inquiries from regulators and attorneys general of certain states requesting information as to our foreclosure processes and procedures. Additionally, various inquiries and investigations of, and legal proceedings against, certain of our competitors have been initiated by attorneys general of certain states and the U.S. Department of Justice, and certain title insurance companies have announced that they will suspend issuing title insurance policies on properties that have been foreclosed upon by such firms. Further, some local and state governmental authorities have taken, and others are contemplating taking, regulatory action to require increased loss mitigation outreach for borrowers, including the imposition of waiting periods prior to the filing of notices of default and the completion of foreclosure sales and, in some cases, moratoriums on foreclosures altogether. 11 Table of Contents While we are continuing to monitor these developments, these developments could result in new legislation and regulations that could materially and adversely affect the manner in which we conduct our mortgage servicing business, heightened federal or state regulation and oversight of our mortgage servicing activities, increased costs and potential litigation associated with our mortgage servicing business and foreclosure related activities, and a temporary decline in home purchase loan originations in our mortgage production business due to the heightened number of distressed property sales that have recently characterized existing home sales. Such regulatory changes in the foreclosure process or delays in completing foreclosures could increase mortgage servicing costs and could reduce the ultimate proceeds received on the resale of foreclosed properties if real estate values continue to decline. In such event, these changes would also have a negative impact on our liquidity as we may be required to repurchase loans without the ability to sell the underlying property on a timely basis. Additionally, on July 21, 2010 the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law for the express purpose of further regulating the financial services industry, including mortgage origination, sales, and securitization. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the operation and practices of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and require sponsors of securitizations to retain a portion of the economic interest in the credit risk associated with the assets securitized by them. Federal regulators have been authorized to provide exceptions to the risk retention requirements for certain “qualified mortgages” and mortgages meeting certain underwriting standards prescribed in such regulations. It is unclear whether future regulations related to the definition of “qualified mortgages” will include the types of conforming mortgage loans we typically sell into government-sponsored entity (“GSE”)-sponsored mortgage-backed securities. If the mortgage loans we typically sell into GSE-sponsored mortgage-backed securities do not meet the definition of a “qualified mortgage,” then the GSEs may be required to retain a portion of the risk of assets they securitize, which may in turn substantially reduce or eliminate the GSEs’ ability to issue mortgage-backed securities. Substantial reduction in, or the elimination of, GSE demand for the mortgage loans we originate would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows since we sell substantially all of our loans pursuant to GSE sponsored programs. It is also unclear what effect future laws or regulations may have on the ability of the GSEs to issue mortgage-backed securities and it is not currently possible to determine what changes, if any, Congress may make to the structure of the GSEs. The Dodd-Frank Act also establishes an independent federal bureau of consumer financial protection to enforce laws involving consumer financial products and services, including mortgage finance. The bureau is empowered with examination and enforcement authority. The Dodd-Frank Act also establishes new standards and practices for mortgage originators, including determining a prospective borrower’s ability to repay their mortgage, removing incentives for higher cost mortgages, prohibiting prepayment penalties for non-qualified mortgages, prohibiting mandatory arbitration clauses, requiring additional disclosures to potential borrowers and restricting the fees that mortgage originators may collect. In addition, our ability to enter into future asset-backed securities transactions may be impacted by the Dodd-Frank Act and other proposed reforms related thereto, the effect of which on the asset-backed securities market is currently uncertain. While we are continuing to evaluate all aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act, such legislation and regulations promulgated pursuant to such legislation could materially and adversely affect the manner in which we conduct our businesses, result in heightened federal regulation and oversight of our business activities, and result in increased costs and potential litigation associated with our business activities. Our failure to comply with the laws, rules or regulations to which we are subject, whether actual or alleged, would expose us to fines, penalties or potential litigation liabilities, including costs, settlements and judgments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive and, if we fail to meet the competitive challenges in our industries, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We operate in highly competitive industries that could become even more competitive as a result of economic, legislative, regulatory or technological changes. Competition for mortgage loan originations comes primarily from commercial banks and savings institutions. Many of our competitors for mortgage loan originations that are commercial banks or savings institutions typically have access to greater financial resources, have lower funding 12 Table of Contents costs, are less reliant than we are on the sale of mortgage loans into the secondary markets to maintain their liquidity, and may be able to participate in government programs that we are unable to participate in because we are not a state or federally chartered depository institution, all of which places us at a competitive disadvantage. The advantages of our largest competitors include, but are not limited to, their ability to hold new mortgage loan originations in an investment portfolio and their access to lower rate bank deposits as a source of liquidity. Additionally, more restrictive loan underwriting standards and the widespread elimination of Alt-A and subprime mortgage products throughout the industry have resulted in a more homogenous product offering, which has increased competition across the industry for mortgage originations. The fleet management industry in which we operate is also highly competitive. We compete against national competitors, such as GE Commercial Finance Fleet Services, Wheels, Inc., Automotive Resources International, Lease Plan International and other local and regional competitors, including numerous competitors who focus on one or two products. Growth in our Fleet Management Services segment is driven principally by increased market share in fleets greater than 75 units and increased fee-based services. Competitive pressures in the Fleet Management industry resulting in a decrease in our market share or lower prices would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We are substantially dependent upon our secured and unsecured funding arrangements. If any of our funding arrangements are terminated, not renewed or otherwise become unavailable to us, we may be unable to find replacement financing on economically viable terms, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are substantially dependent upon various sources of funding, including unsecured credit facilities and other unsecured debt, as well as secured funding arrangements, including asset-backed securities, mortgage warehouse facilities and other secured credit facilities to fund mortgage loans and vehicle acquisitions, a significant portion of which is short-term in nature. Our access to both the secured and unsecured credit markets is subject to prevailing market conditions. Renewal of our existing series of, or the issuance of new series of, vehicle lease asset-backed notes on terms acceptable to us or our ability to enter into alternative vehicle management asset-backed debt arrangements could be adversely affected in the event of: (i) the deterioration in the quality of the assets underlying the asset-backed debt arrangement; (ii) increased costs associated with accessing or our inability to access the asset-backed debt market; (iii) termination of our role as servicer of the underlying lease assets in the event that we default in the performance of our servicing obligations or we declare bankruptcy or become insolvent or (iv) our failure to maintain a sufficient level of eligible assets or credit enhancements, including collateral intended to provide for any differential between variable-rate lease revenues and the underlying variable-rate debt costs. In addition, our access to and our ability to renew our existing mortgage asset-backed debt could suffer in the event of: (i) the deterioration in the performance of the mortgage loans underlying the asset-backed debt arrangement; (ii) our failure to maintain sufficient levels of eligible assets or credit enhancements; (iii) increased costs associated with accessing or our inability to access the mortgage asset-backed debt market; (iv) our inability to access the secondary market for mortgage loans or (v) termination of our role as servicer of the underlying mortgage assets in the event that (a) we default in the performance of our servicing obligations or (b) we declare bankruptcy or become insolvent. Certain of our debt arrangements require us to comply with certain financial covenants and other affirmative and restrictive covenants, including requirements to post additional collateral or to fund assets that become ineligible under our secured funding arrangements. An uncured default of one or more of these covenants would result in a cross-default between and amongst our various debt arrangements. Consequently, an uncured default under any of our debt arrangements that is not waived by our lenders and that results in an acceleration of amounts payable to our lenders or the termination of credit facilities would materially and adversely impact our liquidity, could force us to sell assets at below market prices to repay our indebtedness, and could force us to seek relief under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 11, “Debt and Borrowing Arrangements” in the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our debt arrangements and related financial covenants and other affirmative and restrictive covenants. 13 Table of Contents If any of our credit facilities are terminated, including as a result of our breach, or are not renewed or if conditions in the credit markets worsen dramatically and it is not possible or economical for us to complete the sale or securitization of our originated mortgage loans or vehicle leases, we may be unable to find replacement financing on commercially favorable terms, if at all, which could prevent us from originating new mortgage loans or vehicle leases, reduce our revenues attributable to such activities, or require us to sell assets at below market prices, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our overall business and consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Adverse developments in the secondary mortgage market have had, and in the future could have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We historically have relied on selling or securitizing our mortgage loans into the secondary market in order to generate liquidity to fund maturities of our indebtedness, the origination and warehousing of mortgage loans, the retention of mortgage servicing rights and for general working capital purposes. We bear the risk of being unable to sell or securitize our mortgage loans at advantageous times and prices or in a timely manner. Demand in the secondary market and our ability to complete the sale or securitization of our mortgage loans depends on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, general conditions in the banking system, the willingness of lenders to provide funding for mortgage loans, the willingness of investors to purchase mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities and changes in regulatory requirements. If it is not possible or economical for us to complete the sale or securitization of certain of our mortgage loans held for sale, we may lack liquidity under our mortgage financing facilities to continue to fund such mortgage loans and our revenues and margins on new loan originations would be materially and negatively impacted, which would materially and negatively impact our Net revenues and Segment profit (loss) of our Mortgage Production segment and also have a material adverse effect on our overall business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The severity of the impact would be most significant to the extent we were unable to sell conforming mortgage loans to the government-sponsored entities or securitize such loans pursuant to GSE sponsored programs. Our senior unsecured long-term debt ratings are below investment grade and, as a result, we may be limited in our ability to obtain or renew financing on economically viable terms or at all. Our senior unsecured long-term debt ratings are below investment grade due, in part, to substantial losses incurred in 2008 and high volatility in our earnings, our reliance on short-term secured funding arrangements to finance a substantial portion of our assets, our limited ability to access the credit markets during the height of the recent global credit crisis, and broader economic trends. As a result of our senior unsecured long-term debt credit ratings being below investment grade, our access to the public debt markets may be severely limited in comparison to the ability of investment grade issuers to access such markets. We may be required to rely on alternative financing, such as bank lines and private debt placements and pledge otherwise unencumbered assets. There can be no assurances that we would be able to find such alternative financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Furthermore, we may be unable to renew all of our existing bank credit commitments beyond the then-existing maturity dates. As a consequence, our cost of financing could rise significantly, thereby negatively impacting our ability to finance our mortgage loans held for sale, mortgage servicing rights and net investment in fleet leases. Any of the foregoing would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. There can be no assurances that our credit rating by the primary ratings agencies reflects all of the risks of an investment in our Common stock or our debt securities. Our credit ratings are an assessment by the rating agency of our ability to pay our obligations. Actual or anticipated changes in our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our Common stock and our debt securities. Our credit ratings, however, may not reflect the potential impact of risks related to market conditions generally or other factors on the market value of, or trading market for, our Common stock or our debt securities. 14 Table of Contents We are highly dependent upon programs administered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae. Changes in existing U.S. government-sponsored mortgage programs or servicing eligibility standards could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our ability to generate revenues through mortgage loan sales to institutional investors in the form of mortgage-backed securities depends to a significant degree on programs administered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and others that facilitate the issuance of mortgage-backed securities in the secondary market. These entities play a powerful role in the residential mortgage industry, and we have significant business relationships with them. Our status as a Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae approved seller/servicer is subject to compliance with each entity’s respective selling and servicing guides. During 2010, 95% of our mortgage loan sales were sold to, or were sold pursuant to programs sponsored by, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae. We also derive other material financial benefits from our relationships with Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae, including the assumption of credit risk by these entities on loans included in mortgage-backed securities in exchange for our payment of guarantee fees, the ability to avoid certain loan inventory finance costs through streamlined loan funding and sale procedures and the use of mortgage warehouse facilities with Fannie Mae pursuant to which, as of December 31, 2010, we had total capacity of $3.0 billion, made up of $1 billion of committed and $2 billion uncommitted capacity. Any discontinuation of, or significant reduction or material change in, the operation of these entities or any significant adverse change in the level of activity in the secondary mortgage market or the underwriting criteria of these entities would likely prevent us from originating and selling most, if not all, of our mortgage loan originations, and the discontinuation or material decrease in the availability of, or our capacity under, our uncommitted mortgage warehouse facilities with Fannie Mae, could materially and adversely affect our ability to originate mortgage loans. In addition, we service loans on behalf of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, as well as loans that have been securitized pursuant to securitization programs sponsored by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae in connection with the issuance of agency guaranteed mortgage-backed securities and a majority of our mortgage servicing rights relate to these servicing activities. These entities establish the base service fee in which to compensate us for servicing loans. In January 2011, the Federal Housing Finance Agency directed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to develop a joint initiative to consider alternatives for future mortgage servicing structures and compensation. Under this proposal, the GSEs are considering potential structures in which the minimum service fee would be reduced or eliminated altogether. The GSEs are also considering different pricing options for non-performing loans to better align servicer incentives with MBS investors and provide the loan guarantor the ability to transfer non-performing servicing. These proposals, if adopted, could cause significant changes that impact the entire mortgage industry. The lower capital requirements could increase competition by lowering barriers to entry on mortgage originations and could increase the concentration of performing loans with larger servicers that have a cost-advantage through economies of scale that would no longer be limited by capital constraints. In February 2011, the Obama administration issued a report to Congress, outlining various options for long-term reform of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. These options involve reducing the role of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the mortgage market and to ultimately wind down both institutions such that the private sector provides the majority of mortgage credit. The report states that any potential reform efforts will make credit less easily available and that any such changes should occur at a measured pace that supports the nation’s economic recovery. Any of these options are likely to result in higher mortgage rates in the future, which could have a negative impact on our Mortgage production business. Additionally, it is unclear what impact these changes will have on the secondary mortgage markets, mortgage-backed securities pricing, and competition in the industry. The potential changes to the government-sponsored mortgage programs, and related servicing compensation structures, could require us to fundamentally change our business model in order to effectively compete in the market. Our inability to make the necessary changes to respond to these changing market conditions or loss of our approved seller/servicer status with any of these entities, would have a material adverse effect on our overall business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 15 Table of Contents Continued or worsening conditions in the real estate market have adversely impacted, and in the future could continue to adversely impact, our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Adverse economic conditions in the U.S. have resulted, and could continue to result, in increased mortgage loan payment delinquencies, home price depreciation and a lower volume of home sales. These trends have negatively impacted and may continue to negatively impact our Mortgage Production and Mortgage Servicing segments through increased loss severities in connection with loan repurchase and indemnification claims due to declining home prices, increased mortgage reinsurance losses due to increased delinquencies and loss severities, and lower home purchase mortgage originations. However, we have experienced a relatively smaller impact from these trends than many of our current and former competitors because we generally sell substantially all of the mortgage loans we originate shortly after origination, we do not generally maintain credit risk on the loans we originate or maintain a loan investment portfolio, substantially all of our mortgage loan originations are prime mortgages rather than Alt-A or subprime mortgages, and our mortgage loan servicing portfolio has experienced a lower rate of payment delinquencies than that of many of our competitors. Nevertheless, these trends have resulted in an increase in the incidence of loan repurchase and indemnification claims and associated losses, as well as an increase in mortgage reinsurance losses, resulting in an increase in our reserves for loan repurchase and indemnification losses and mortgage reinsurance losses. Continuation of these trends could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our Mortgage Production segment is substantially dependent upon our relationships with Realogy, Merrill Lynch and Charles Schwab, and the termination or non-renewal of our contractual agreements with these clients would materially and adversely impact our mortgage loan originations and resulting Net revenues and Segment profit (loss) of our Mortgage Production segment and this would have a material adverse effect on our overall business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have relationships with several clients that represent a significant portion of our revenues and mortgage loan originations for our Mortgage Production segment. In particular, Realogy, Merrill Lynch and Charles Schwab represented approximately 27%, 15% and 11%, respectively, of our mortgage loan originations for the year ended December 31, 2010. The loss of any one of these clients, whether due to insolvency, their unwillingness or inability to perform their obligations under their respective contractual relationships with us, or if we are not able to renew on commercially reasonable terms any of their respective contractual relationships with us, would materially and adversely impact our mortgage loan originations and resulting Net revenues and Segment profit (loss) of our Mortgage Production segment and this would also have a material adverse effect on our overall business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The termination of our status as the exclusive recommended provider of mortgage products and services promoted by Realogy’s affiliates, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We are party to a strategic relationship agreement dated as of January 31, 2005 between PHH Mortgage, PHH Home Loans, PHH Broker Partner, Realogy Services Venture Partner, Inc. and Cendant Corporation (now known as Avis Budget Group, Inc.). Under the Strategic Relationship Agreement we are the exclusive recommended provider of mortgage loans to the independent sales associates affiliated with the real estate brokerage business owned and operated by Realogy’s affiliates and certain customers of Realogy. The marketing agreement entered into between Coldwell Banker Real Estate Corporation, Century 21 Real Estate LLC, ERA Franchise Systems, Inc., Sotheby’s International Affiliates, Inc. and PHH Mortgage Corporation similarly provides that we are the exclusive recommended provider of mortgage loans and related products to the independent sales associates of Realogy’s real estate brokerage franchisees, which include Coldwell Banker Real Estate Corporation, Century 21 Real Estate LLC, ERA Franchise Systems, Inc. and Sotheby’s International Affiliates, Inc. 16 Table of Contents In addition, the Strategic Relationship Agreement provides that Realogy has the right to terminate the covenant requiring it to exclusively recommend us as the provider of mortgage loans to the independent sales associates affiliated with the real estate brokerage business owned and operated by Realogy’s affiliates and certain customers of Realogy, following notice and a cure period, if: § we materially breach any representation, warranty, covenant or other agreement contained in the Strategic Relationship Agreement, the Marketing Agreement, trademark license agreements or certain other related agreements, including, without limitation, our confidentiality agreements in the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement and the Strategic Relationship Agreement, and our non-competition agreements in the Strategic Relationship Agreement; § we become subject to any regulatory order or governmental proceeding and such order or proceeding prevents or materially impairs PHH Home Loans’ ability to originate mortgage loans for any period of time (which order or proceeding is not generally applicable to companies in the mortgage lending business) in a manner that adversely affects the value of one or more of the quarterly distributions to be paid by PHH Home Loans pursuant to the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement; § PHH Home Loans otherwise is not permitted by law, regulation, rule, order or other legal restriction to perform its origination function in any jurisdiction, but in such case exclusivity may be terminated only with respect to such jurisdiction; or § PHH Home Loans does not comply with its obligations to complete an acquisition of a mortgage loan origination company under the terms of the Strategic Relationship Agreement. If Realogy were to terminate its exclusivity obligations with respect to us, one of our competitors could replace us as the recommended provider of mortgage loans to Realogy and its affiliates and franchisees, which would result in our loss of most, if not all, of our mortgage loan originations, Net revenues and Segment profit (loss) of our Mortgage Production segment derived from Realogy’s affiliates, which loss would have a material adverse effect on our overall business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, certain of the events that give Realogy the right to terminate its exclusivity obligations with respect to us under the Strategic Relationship Agreement would also give Realogy the right to terminate its other agreements and arrangements with us. For example, the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement also permits Realogy to terminate the mortgage venture with us upon our material breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or other agreement contained in the Strategic Relationship Agreement, the Marketing Agreement, the Trademark License Agreements or certain other related agreements that is not cured following any applicable notice or cure period or if we become subject to any regulatory order or governmental proceeding that prevents or materially impairs PHH Home Loans’ ability to originate mortgage loans for any period of time (which order or proceeding is not generally applicable to companies in the mortgage lending business) in a manner that adversely affects the value of one or more of the quarterly distributions to be paid by PHH Home Loans pursuant to the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement. Upon a termination of the PHH Home Loans joint venture by Realogy or its affiliates, Realogy will have the right either (i) to require that we or certain of our affiliates purchase all of Realogy’s interest in PHH Home Loans; or (ii) to cause us to sell our interest in PHH Home Loans to an unaffiliated third party designated by certain of Realogy’s affiliates. Additionally, any termination of PHH Home Loans will also result in a termination of the Strategic Relationship Agreement and our exclusivity rights under the Strategic Relationship Agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement, beginning on February 1, 2015, Realogy will have the right at any time upon two years’ notice to us to terminate its interest in PHH Home Loans. If Realogy were to terminate PHH Home Loans or our other arrangements with Realogy, including its exclusivity obligations with respect to us, any such termination would likely result in our loss of most, if not all, of our mortgage loan originations, Net revenues and Segment profit (loss) of our Mortgage Production segment derived from Realogy’s affiliates, which loss would have a material adverse effect on our overall business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 17 Table of Contents Certain hedging strategies that we may use to manage risks associated with our assets, including mortgage loans held for sale, interest rate lock commitments, mortgage servicing rights and foreign currency denominated assets, may not be effective in mitigating those risks and could result in substantial losses that could exceed the losses that would have been incurred had we not used such hedging strategies. We may employ various economic hedging strategies in an attempt to mitigate the interest rate and prepayment risk inherent in many of our assets, including our mortgage loans held for sale, interest rate lock commitments and, from time to time, our mortgage servicing rights. Our hedging activities may include entering into derivative instruments. We also seek to manage interest rate risk in our Mortgage Production and Mortgage Servicing segments partially by monitoring and seeking to maintain an appropriate balance between our loan production volume and the size of our mortgage servicing portfolio, as the value of mortgage servicing rights and the income they provide tend to be counter-cyclical to the changes in production volumes and the gain or loss on loans that result from changes in interest rates. This approach requires our management to make assumptions with regards to future replenishment rates for our mortgage servicing rights, loan margins, the value of additions to our mortgage servicing rights and loan origination costs, and many factors can impact these estimates, including loan pricing margins and our ability to adjust staffing levels to meet changing consumer demand. We are also exposed to foreign exchange risk associated with our investment in our Canadian operations and with foreign exchange forward contracts that we have entered into, or may in the future enter into, to hedge U.S. dollar denominated borrowings used to fund Canadian dollar denominated leases and operations. Our hedging decisions in the future to manage these foreign exchange risks will be determined in light of the facts and circumstances existing at the time and may differ from our current hedging strategy. During the third quarter of 2008, we assessed the composition of our capitalized mortgage servicing portfolio and its relative sensitivity to refinance if interest rates decline, the costs of hedging and the anticipated effectiveness of the hedge given the current economic environment. Based on that assessment, we made the decision to close out substantially all of our derivatives related to mortgage servicing rights during the third quarter of 2008. As of December 31, 2010, there were no open derivatives related to mortgage servicing rights, which has resulted in increased volatility in the results of operations for our Mortgage Servicing segment. Our decisions regarding the levels, if any, of our derivatives related to mortgage servicing rights could result in continued volatility in the results of operations for our Mortgage Servicing segment. Our hedging strategies may not be effective in mitigating the risks related to changes in interest rates or foreign exchange rates. Poorly designed strategies or improperly executed transactions could actually increase our risk and losses, and could result in losses in excess of what our losses would have been from had we not used such hedging strategies. There have been periods, and it is likely that there will be periods in the future, during which we incur losses after consideration of the results of our hedging strategies. As stated earlier, the success of our interest rate risk management strategy and our replenishment strategies for our mortgage servicing rights are largely dependent on our ability to predict the earnings sensitivity of our loan servicing and loan production activities in various interest rate environments, as well as our ability to successfully manage any capacity constraints in our mortgage production business. Our hedging strategies also rely on assumptions and projections regarding our assets and general market factors. If these assumptions and projections prove to be incorrect or our hedges do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes including, but not limited to, interest rates or prepayment speeds or foreign exchange rate fluctuations, we may incur losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Changes in interest rates could materially and adversely affect our volume of mortgage loan originations or reduce the value of our mortgage servicing rights, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Changes in and the level of interest rates are key drivers of our mortgage loan originations in our Mortgage Production segment and mortgage loan refinancing activity, in particular. The level of interest rates are significantly affected by monetary and related policies of the federal government, its agencies and government sponsored entities, which are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board that regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. The Federal Reserve Board’s policies, including initiatives to 18 Table of Contents stabilize the U.S. housing market and to stimulate overall economic growth, affect the size of the mortgage loan origination market, the pricing of our interest-earning assets and the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in any of these policies are beyond our control, difficult to predict, particularly in the current economic environment, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Historically, rising interest rates have generally been associated with a lower volume of loan originations in our Mortgage Production segment due to a disincentive for borrowers to refinance at a higher interest rate, while falling interest rates have generally been associated with higher loan originations due to an incentive for borrowers to refinance at a lower interest rate. Our ability to generate Gain on mortgage loans, net in our Mortgage Production segment is significantly dependent on our level of mortgage loan originations. Accordingly, increases in interest rates could materially and adversely affect our mortgage loan origination volume, which could have a material and adverse effect on our Mortgage Production segment, as well as our overall business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Changes in interest rates are also a key driver of the performance of our Mortgage Servicing segment as the values of our mortgage servicing rights are highly sensitive to changes in interest rates. Historically, the value of our mortgage servicing rights have increased when interest rates rise and have decreased when interest rates decline due to the effect those changes in interest rates have on prepayment estimates, with changes in fair value of our mortgage servicing rights being included in our consolidated results of operations. Because we do not currently utilize derivatives to hedge against changes in the fair value of our mortgage servicing rights, our consolidated financial positions, results of operations and cash flows are susceptible to significant volatility due to changes in the fair value of our mortgage servicing rights as interest rates change. As a result, substantial volatility in interest rates materially affect our Mortgage Servicing segment, as well as our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Losses incurred in connection with actual or projected loan repurchase and indemnification claims may exceed our financial statement reserves and we may be required to increase such reserves in the future. Increases to our reserves and losses incurred in connection with actual loan repurchases and indemnification payments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operation or cash flows. In connection with the sale of mortgage loans, we make various representations and warranties concerning such loans that, if breached, require us to repurchase such loans or indemnify the purchaser of such loans for actual losses incurred in respect of such loans. These representations and warranties vary based on the nature of the transaction and the purchaser’s or insurer’s requirements but generally pertain to the ownership of the mortgage loan, the real property securing the loan and compliance with applicable laws and applicable lender and government-sponsored entity underwriting guidelines in connection with the origination of the loan. The aggregate unpaid principal balance of loans sold or serviced by us represents the maximum potential exposure related to loan repurchase and indemnification claims, including claims for breach of representation and warranty provisions. Due, in part, to recent increased mortgage payment delinquency rates and declining housing prices, we have experienced, and may in the future continue to experience, an increase in loan repurchase and indemnification claims due to actual or alleged breaches of representations and warranties in connection with the sale or servicing of mortgage loans. The estimation of our loan repurchase and indemnification liability is subjective and based upon our projections of the incidence of loan repurchase and indemnification claims, as well as loss severities. Given these trends, losses incurred in connection with such actual or projected loan repurchase and indemnification claims may be in excess of our financial statement reserves, and we may be required to increase such reserves and may sustain additional losses associated with such loan repurchase and indemnification claims in the future. Accordingly, increases to our reserves and losses incurred by us in connection with actual loan repurchases and indemnification payments in excess of our reserves could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, some of our counterparties from whom we have purchased mortgage loans or mortgage servicing rights and from whom we may seek indemnification or against whom we may assert a loan repurchase demand in connection with a breach of a representation or warranty are highly leveraged and have been adversely affected by 19 Table of Contents the recent economic decline in the United States, including the pronounced downturn in the debt and equity capital markets and the U.S. housing market, and unprecedented levels of credit market volatility. As a result, we are exposed to counterparty risk in the event of non-performance by counterparties to our various contracts, including, without limitation, as a result of the rejection of an agreement or transaction in bankruptcy proceedings, which could result in substantial losses for which we may not have insurance coverage. The fair values of a substantial portion of our assets are determined based upon significant estimates and assumptions made by our management. As a result, there could be material uncertainty about the fair value of such assets that, if subsequently proven incorrect or inaccurate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. A substantial portion of our assets are recorded at fair value based upon significant estimates and assumptions with changes in fair value included in our consolidated results of operations. The determination of the fair value of such assets, including our mortgage loans held for sale, interest rate lock commitments and mortgage servicing rights, involves numerous estimates and assumptions made by our management. Such estimates and assumptions include, without limitation, estimates of future cash flows associated with our mortgage servicing rights based upon assumptions involving interest rates as well as the prepayment rates and delinquencies and foreclosure rates of the underlying serviced mortgage loans. As of December 31, 2010, 55% of our total assets were measured at fair value on a recurring basis, and 2% of our total liabilities were measured at fair value on a recurring basis. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 72% of our assets and liabilities measured at fair value were valued using primarily observable inputs and were categorized within Level Two of the valuation hierarchy. Our assets and liabilities categorized within Level Two of the valuation hierarchy are comprised of the majority of our mortgage loans held for sale and derivative assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 28% of our assets and liabilities measured at fair value were valued using significant unobservable inputs and were categorized within Level Three of the valuation hierarchy. Approximately 80% of our assets and liabilities categorized within Level Three of the valuation hierarchy are comprised of our mortgage servicing rights. The ultimate realization of the value of our assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis may be materially different than the fair values of such assets as reflected in our consolidated statement of financial position as of any particular date. The use of different estimates or assumptions in connection with the valuation of these assets could produce materially different fair values for such assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Accordingly, there may be material uncertainty about the fair value of a substantial portion of our assets. We may be unable to fully or successfully execute or implement our business strategies or achieve our objectives, including our transformation initiatives and goals, and we may be unable to effectively manage the inherent risks of our businesses, including market, credit, operational, and legal and compliance risks, any failure of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The businesses in which we engage are complex and heavily regulated and we are exposed to various market, credit, operational and legal and compliance risks. Due, in part, to these regulatory constraints and risks, we may be unable to fully or successfully execute or implement our business strategies or achieve our objectives, including our transformation initiatives and goals, and we may be unable to effectively manage the inherent risks of our businesses, including market, credit, operational, and legal and compliance risks, any failure of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In 2009, after assessing our cost structure and processes, we initiated a transformation effort directed towards creating greater operational efficiencies, improving scalability of our operating platforms and reducing our operating expenses. This effort involves evaluating and improving operational and administrative processes, eliminating inefficiencies and targeting areas of the market where we can leverage our competitive strengths. We may be unable to fully or successfully execute or implement our transformation initiatives and objectives, in whole or in part, and, if we are successful, there can be no assurances that we can implement these initiatives in a 20 Table of Contents cost efficient manner or that these initiatives will have the impact that we intend on our business activities and results of operations. Our inability to achieve the goals targeted by our transformation efforts, or to implement and execute these initiatives within the timeframe we have projected, could result in us not achieving our stated goals. Risks Related to our Common Stock Future issuances of our Common stock or securities convertible into our Common stock and hedging activities may result in dilution of our stockholders or depress the trading price of our Common stock. If we issue any shares of our Common stock or securities convertible into our Common stock in the future, including the issuance of shares of Common stock upon conversion of our 4.0% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012 and 4.0% Convertible Senior Notes due 2014 or the issuance of shares of Common stock upon exercise or settlement of any outstanding stock options, restricted stock units or performance stock units granted under the PHH Corporation Amended and Restated 2005 Equity and Incentive Plan, such issuances will dilute the voting power and ownership percentage of our stockholders and could substantially decrease the trading price of our Common stock. In addition, the price of our Common stock could also be negatively affected by possible sales of our Common stock by investors who engage in hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our Common stock following the issuance of the Convertible Notes. We also may issue shares of our Common stock or securities convertible into our Common stock in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic collaborations or other transactions), to increase our capital, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our Common stock or securities convertible into our Common stock or the effect, if any, that such future issuances might have to dilute the voting interests of our stockholders or otherwise on the market price for our Common stock. The convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may negatively affect the value of our Common stock. In connection with our offering of the 2012 Convertible Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions that cover, subject to anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 12,195,125 shares of our Common stock and sold warrants to purchase, subject to anti-dilution adjustments, up to approximately 12,195,125 shares of our Common stock with affiliates of the initial purchasers of the 2012 Convertible Notes. In connection with the issuance and sale of the 2014 Convertible Notes, we also entered into convertible note hedge transactions that cover, subject to anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 8,525,484 shares of our Common stock and sold warrants to purchase, subject to anti-dilution adjustments, up to approximately 8,525,484 shares of our Common stock with affiliates of the initial purchasers of the 2014 Convertible Notes (together with the affiliates of the initial purchasers of the 2012 Convertible Notes that are parties to the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions associated with the 2012 Convertible Notes, the “Option Counterparties”). The convertible note hedge and warrant transactions are expected to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the 2012 Convertible Notes and 2014 Convertible Notes, respectively. In connection with hedging these transactions, the Option Counterparties and/or their respective affiliates entered into various derivative transactions with respect to our Common stock. The Option Counterparties and/or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to our Common stock or by selling or purchasing our Common stock in secondary market transactions while the Convertible Notes are convertible, which could adversely impact the price of our Common stock. In order to unwind their hedge position with respect to those exercised options, the Option Counterparties and/or their respective affiliates are likely to sell shares of our Common stock in secondary transactions or unwind various derivative transactions with respect to our Common stock during the observation period for the converted 2012 Convertible Notes and 2014 Convertible Notes. These activities could negatively affect the value of our Common stock. 21 Table of Contents Provisions in our charter and bylaws, the Maryland General Corporation Law, and certain of our debt indentures may prevent, delay or deter our acquisition by a third party. Our charter and by-laws contain several provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions include, among other things, a classified Board of Directors, advance notice for raising business or making nominations at meetings and “blank check” preferred stock. Blank check preferred stock enables our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to designate and issue additional series of preferred stock with such dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, including the right to issue convertible securities with no limitations on conversion, as our Board of Directors may determine, including rights to dividends and proceeds in a liquidation that are senior to the Common stock. We are also subject to certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law which could delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their Common stock or may otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. These include, among other provisions: § The “business combinations” statute which prohibits transactions between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder and § The “control share” acquisition statute which provides that control shares of a Maryland corporation acquired in a control share acquisition have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Our by-laws contain a provision exempting any share of our capital stock from the control share acquisition statute to the fullest extent permitted by the Maryland General Corporation Law. However, our Board of Directors has the exclusive right to amend our by-laws and, subject to their fiduciary duties, could at any time in the future amend the by-laws to remove this exemption provision. Finally, if certain changes in control or other fundamental changes under the terms of the Convertible Notes or the 91/4 Senior Notes occur prior to their respective maturity date, holders of the notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes and, for the Convertible Notes, in some cases, such a transaction will cause an increase in the conversion rate for a holder that elects to convert its notes in connection with such a transaction. In addition, the indentures for the 2012 Convertible Notes and 2014 Convertible Notes prohibit us from engaging in certain changes in control unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the Convertible Notes. These and other provisions of the indentures for the Convertible Notes and the 91/4 Seior Notes due 2016 could prevent, delay or deter potential acquirers. Certain provisions of the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement and the Strategic Relationship Agreement that we have with Realogy and certain provisions in our other mortgage loan origination agreements could discourage third parties from seeking to acquire us or could reduce the amount of consideration they would be willing to pay our stockholders in an acquisition transaction. Pursuant to the terms of the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement, Realogy has the right to terminate PHH Home Loans, at its election, at any time on or after February 1, 2015 by providing two years’ notice to us. In addition, under the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement, Realogy may terminate PHH Home Loans if we effect a change in control transaction involving certain competitors or other third parties. In connection with such termination, we would be required to make a liquidated damages payment in cash to Realogy of an amount equal to the sum of (i) two times PHH Home Loans’ trailing 12 months net income (except that, in the case of a termination by Realogy following a change in control of us, we may be required to make a cash payment to Realogy in an amount equal to PHH Home Loans’ trailing 12 months net income multiplied by (a) if the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement is terminated prior to its twelfth anniversary, the number of years remaining in the first 12 years of the term of the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement, or (b) if the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement is terminated on or after its tenth anniversary, two years), and (ii) all costs reasonably incurred by Cendant (now known as Avis Budget Group, Inc.) and its subsidiaries in unwinding its relationship 22 Table of Contents with us pursuant to the PHH Home Loans Operating Agreement and the related agreements, including the Strategic Relationship Agreement, the Marketing Agreement and the Trademark License Agreements. Pursuant to the terms of the Strategic Relationship Agreement, we are subject to a non-competition provision, the breach of which could result in Realogy having the right to terminate the Strategic Relationship Agreement, seek an injunction prohibiting us from engaging in activities in breach of the non-competition provision or result in our liability for damages to Realogy. In addition, our agreements with some of our financial institution clients, such as Merrill Lynch and Charles Schwab, provide the applicable financial institution client with the right to terminate its relationship with us prior to the expiration of the contract term if we complete certain change in control transactions with certain third parties. Because we may be unable to obtain consents or waivers from such clients in connection with certain change in control transactions, the existence of these provisions may discourage certain third parties from seeking to acquire us or could reduce the amount of consideration they would be willing to pay to our stockholders in an acquisition transaction. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 73% of our mortgage loan originations were derived from our private label channel. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 