Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to our Business There continues to be substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to restructure our indebtedness and raise additional capital in a timely manner, we may need to seek further protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code at the parent-company level. As a result of ethanol industry conditions that have negatively affected our business and ongoing financial difficulties, we believe we have sufficient liquidity to meet our anticipated working capital, debt service and other liquidity needs until either June 30, 2010, if we are unable to timely close a prospective $5.0 million credit facility, or through December 31, 2010, if we are able to timely close the credit facility and either pay or further defer a $1.5 million payable owed to a judgment creditor on June 30, 2010. These expectations concerning our available liquidity until June 30, 2010 or through December 31, 2010 presume that Lyles does not pursue any action against us due to our default on an aggregate of $21.5 million of remaining principal, plus accrued interest and fees, and that we maintain our current levels of borrowing availability under Kinergy’s line of credit. Accordingly, there continues to be substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. We are seeking a confirmed plan of reorganization in connection with the Chapter 11 Filings and seeking to raise additional debt or equity financing, or both, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful. If we cannot confirm a plan of reorganization in connection with the Chapter 11 Filings and raise sufficient capital in a timely manner, we may need to seek further protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, including at the Parent company level. As a result, our 2009 financial statements include an explanatory paragraph by our independent registered public accounting firm expressing substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ethanol production facility subsidiaries filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with the bankruptcy cases. For the duration of our facility subsidiaries’ bankruptcy cases, our operations and our ability to execute our business strategy will be subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy. These risks include: ● our ability to operate our facility subsidiaries within the restrictions and the limitations of any debtor-in-possession financing; ● our subsidiaries’ ability to develop, prosecute, confirm and consummate a plan of reorganization with respect to the Chapter 11 proceedings; ● our subsidiaries’ ability to obtain and maintain normal payment and other terms with customers, vendors and service providers; and ● our subsidiaries’ ability to maintain contracts that are critical to their operations. We will also be subject to risks and uncertainties with respect to the actions and decisions of our creditors and other third parties who have interests in the bankruptcy cases that may be inconsistent with our plans. These risks and uncertainties could affect our business and operations in various ways. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with the bankruptcy cases, we cannot predict or quantify the ultimate impact that events occurring during the Chapter 11 reorganization process will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -16- If we seek protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code at the Parent company level, all of our outstanding shares of capital stock could be cancelled and holders of our capital stock may not be entitled to any payment in respect of their shares. If we seek protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code at the Parent company level, it is possible that all of our outstanding shares of capital stock could be cancelled and holders of capital stock may not be entitled to any payment in respect of their shares. It is also possible that our obligations to our creditors may be satisfied by the issuance of shares of capital stock in satisfaction of their claims. The value of any capital stock so issued may be less than the face value of our obligations to those creditors, and the price of any such capital stock may be volatile. In addition, in the event of a bankruptcy filing at the Parent company level, our common stock will be suspended from trading on and delisted from NASDAQ. Accordingly, trading in our common stock may be limited, and our stockholders may not be able to resell their securities for their purchase price or at all. We are seeking additional financing and may be unable to obtain this financing on a timely basis, in sufficient amounts, on terms acceptable to us or at all. Any financing we are able to obtain may be available only on burdensome terms that may cause significant dilution to our stockholders and impose onerous financial restrictions on our business. We are seeking substantial additional financing. Global economic and debt and equity market conditions may cause prolonged declines in lender and investor confidence in and accessibility to capital markets. Future financing may not be available on a timely basis, in sufficient amounts, on terms acceptable to us or at all. Any equity financing may cause significant dilution to existing stockholders. Any debt financing or other financing of securities senior to our common stock will likely include financial and other covenants that will restrict our flexibility. At a minimum, we would expect these covenants to include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Any failure to comply with these covenants could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations because we could lose any then-existing sources of financing and our ability to secure new financing may be impaired. In addition, any prospective debt or equity financing transaction will be subject to the negotiation of definitive documents and any closing under those documents will be subject to the satisfaction of numerous conditions, many of which could be beyond our control. We may be unable to obtain additional financing from one or more lenders or equity investors, or if funding is available, it may be available only on burdensome terms that may cause significant dilution to our stockholders and impose onerous financial restrictions on our business. We have incurred significant losses and negative operating cash flow in the past and we will likely incur significant losses and negative operating cash flow in the foreseeable future. Continued losses and negative operating cash flow will hamper our operations and prevent us from expanding our business. We have incurred significant losses and negative operating cash flow in the past. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we incurred net losses of approximately $308.7 million and $199.2 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we incurred negative operating cash flow of approximately $6.3 million and $55.2 million, respectively. We will likely incur significant losses and negative operating cash flow in the foreseeable future. We expect to rely on cash on hand, cash, if any, generated from our operations and cash, if any, generated from our future financing activities to fund all of the cash requirements of our business. Continued losses and negative operating cash flow will hamper our operations and impede us from expanding our business. Continued losses and negative operating cash flow are also likely to make our capital raising needs more acute while limiting our ability to raise additional financing on favorable terms. -17- We recognized impairment charges in 2009 and 2008 and could recognize additional impairment charges in the future. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we recognized asset and goodwill impairment charges in the aggregate amounts of $252.4 million and $127.9 million, respectively. We performed our forecast of expected future cash flows of our facilities over their estimated useful lives. Such forecasts of expected future cash flows are heavily dependent upon management’s estimates and probability analysis of various scenarios that may arise from the restructuring of our Bankrupt Debtors, market prices for ethanol, our primary product, and corn, our primary production input. Both ethanol and corn costs have fluctuated significantly in the past year, therefore these estimates are highly subjective and are management’s best estimates at this time. These estimates may change significantly in the future. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our ability to operate effectively may be impaired. Our ability to operate our business and implement strategies depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. We have made certain reductions in staffing which may have had the effect of creating an uncertain employment environment, which may lead key employees to seek alternative employment. In addition, our acute financial distress may cause key employees to seek alternative employment. Our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain our current key personnel and qualified future key personnel, particularly executive management. Failure to attract or retain qualified key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Even if we are able to restructure our indebtedness and raise additional capital in the very near term, various factors could result in inadequate working capital to fully fund our operations. If ethanol production margins deteriorate from current levels, if our capital requirements or cash flows otherwise vary materially and adversely from our current projections, or if other adverse unforeseen circumstances occur, our working capital may be inadequate to fully fund our operations even if we are able to restructure our indebtedness and raise additional capital in the very near term, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and cash flows and may restrict our growth and hinder our ability to compete. The volatility in the financial and commodities markets and sustained weakening of the economy could further significantly impact our business and financial condition and may limit our ability to raise additional capital. As widely reported, financial markets in the United States and the rest of the world have experienced extreme disruption, including, among other things, extreme volatility in securities and commodities prices, as well as severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. As a result, we believe that our ability to access capital markets and raise funds required for our operations is severely restricted at a time when we need to do so, which continues to have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our current and future funding requirements and on our ability to react to changing economic and business conditions. Significant declines in the price of crude oil have resulted in reduced demand for our products. We are not able to predict the duration or severity of any current or future disruption in financial markets, fluctuations in the price of crude oil or other adverse economic conditions in the United States. However, if economic conditions worsen, it is likely that these factors would have a further adverse effect on our results of operations and future prospects. -18- Increased ethanol production may cause a decline in ethanol prices or prevent ethanol prices from rising, and may have other negative effects, adversely impacting our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We believe that the most significant factor influencing the price of ethanol has been the substantial increase in ethanol production in recent years. Domestic ethanol production capacity has increased steadily from an annualized rate of 1.5 billion gallons per year in January 1999 to 10.8 billion gallons in 2009 according to the RFA. See “Business—Governmental Regulation.” However, increases in the demand for ethanol may not be commensurate with increases in the supply of ethanol, thus leading to lower ethanol prices. Demand for ethanol could be impaired due to a number of factors, including regulatory developments and reduced United States gasoline consumption. Reduced gasoline consumption has occurred in the past, and could occur in the future, as a result of increased gasoline or oil prices. Increased ethanol production could also have other adverse effects. For example, increased ethanol production could lead to increased supplies of co-products generated from ethanol production, such as WDG. Those increased supplies could lead to lower prices for those co-products. Also, increased ethanol production could result in increased demand for corn. Increased demand for corn could cause higher corn prices, resulting in higher ethanol production costs and lower profit margins. Accordingly, increased ethanol production may cause a decline in ethanol prices or prevent ethanol prices from rising, and may have other negative effects, adversely impacting our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The raw materials and energy necessary to produce ethanol may be unavailable or may increase in price, adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. The principal raw material we use to produce ethanol and its co-products is corn. Changes in the price of corn can significantly affect our business. In general, and as we experienced in 2008, rising or elevated corn prices result in lower profit margins and, therefore, represent unfavorable market conditions. This is especially true since market conditions generally do not allow us to pass along increased corn prices to our customers because the price of ethanol is primarily determined by other factors, such as the supply of ethanol and the price of oil and gasoline. At certain levels, corn prices may even make ethanol production uneconomical depending on the prevailing price of ethanol. The price of corn is influenced by general economic, market and regulatory factors. These factors include weather conditions, crop conditions and yields, farmer planting decisions, government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade and global supply and demand. The significance and relative impact of these factors on the price of corn is difficult to predict. Any event that tends to negatively impact the supply of corn will tend to increase prices and potentially harm our business. Although average corn prices, as measured by the Chicago Board of Trade, decreased 29% in 2009 as compared to 2008, average corn prices remained elevated in 2009 as compared to 2007 and prior years. The United States Department of Agriculture’s February 2010 World Agriculture Supply and Demand Estimates projected that corn bought by ethanol plants in the U.S. will represent approximately 33% of the 2009/2010 crop year’s total corn supply, up from 30% in the prior crop year. Additional increases in ethanol production could further boost demand for corn and result in further increases in corn prices. Our business also depends on the continuing availability of rail, road, port, storage and distribution infrastructure. In particular, due to limited storage capacity at our production facilities and other considerations related to production efficiencies, we depend on just-in-time delivery of corn. The production of ethanol also requires a significant and uninterrupted supply of other raw materials and energy, primarily water, electricity and natural gas. The prices of electricity and natural gas have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. Local water, electricity and gas utilities may not be able to reliably supply the water, electricity and natural gas that our facilities will need or may not be able to supply those resources on acceptable terms. Any disruptions in the ethanol production infrastructure network, whether caused by labor difficulties, earthquakes, storms, other natural disasters or human error or malfeasance or other reasons, could prevent timely deliveries of corn or other raw materials and energy and may require us to halt production which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. -19- We may engage in hedging transactions and other risk mitigation strategies that could harm our results of operations. In an attempt to partially offset the effects of volatility of ethanol prices and corn and natural gas costs, we may enter into contracts to supply a portion of our ethanol production or purchase a portion of our corn or natural gas requirements on a forward basis. In addition, we may engage in other hedging transactions involving exchange-traded futures contracts for corn, natural gas and unleaded gasoline from time to time. The financial statement impact of these activities is dependent upon, among other things, the prices involved and our ability to sell sufficient products to use all of the corn and natural gas for which we have futures contracts. We may also engage in hedging transactions involving interest rate swaps related to our debt financing activities, the financial statement impact of which is dependent upon, among other things, fluctuations in prevailing interest rates. Hedging arrangements also expose us to the risk of financial loss in situations where the other party to the hedging contract defaults on its contract or, in the case of exchange-traded contracts, where there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual prices paid or received by us. Hedging activities can themselves result in losses when a position is purchased in a declining market or a position is sold in a rising market. A hedge position for a physical commodity is often settled in the same time frame as the physical commodity is either purchased or sold. Certain hedging losses may be offset by a decreased cash price for corn and natural gas and an increased cash price for ethanol. We may also vary the amount of hedging or other risk mitigation strategies we undertake, and from time to time we may choose not to engage in hedging transactions at all. As a result, our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the price of corn, natural gas, ethanol, unleaded gasoline and prevailing interest rates. The market price of ethanol is volatile and subject to large fluctuations, which may cause our profitability or losses to fluctuate significantly. The market price of ethanol is volatile and subject to large fluctuations. The market price of ethanol is dependent upon many factors, including the supply of ethanol and the price of gasoline, which is in turn dependent upon the price of petroleum which is highly volatile and difficult to forecast. For example, our average sales price of ethanol decreased by 20% in 2009, and increased by 5% in 2008 from the prior year’s average sales price per gallon. Fluctuations in the market price of ethanol may cause our profitability or losses to fluctuate significantly. Operational difficulties at our production facilities could negatively impact our sales volumes and could cause us to incur substantial losses. Our operations are subject to labor disruptions, unscheduled downtimes and other operational hazards inherent in our industry, such as equipment failures, fires, explosions, abnormal pressures, blowouts, pipeline ruptures, transportation accidents and natural disasters. Some of these operational hazards may cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Our insurance may not be adequate to fully cover the potential operational hazards described above or we may not be able to renew this insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all. -20- Moreover, our facilities may not operate as planned or expected. All of our facilities are designed to operate at or above a certain production capacity. The operation of our facilities is and will be, however, subject to various uncertainties. As a result, our facilities may not produce ethanol and its co-products at the levels we expect. In the event any of our facilities do not run at their expected capacity levels, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Our business is affected by the regulation of greenhouse gases and climate change. New climate change regulations could impede our ability to successfully operate our business. Our ethanol production facilities emit carbon dioxide as a by-product of the ethanol production process. In 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court classified carbon dioxide as an air pollutant under the Clean Air Act in a case seeking to require the EPA to regulate carbon dioxide in vehicle emissions. On February 3, 2010, the EPA released its final regulations. We believe these final regulations grandfather our facilities at their current operating capacity. Additionally, legislation is pending in Congress on a comprehensive carbon dioxide regulatory scheme, such as a carbon tax or cap-and-trade system. We may be required to install carbon dioxide mitigation equipment or take other steps unknown to us at this time in order to comply with other future laws or regulations. Compliance with future laws or regulations relating to emission of carbon dioxide could be costly and may require additional working capital, which may not be available, preventing us from operating our plants as originally designed, which may have a material adverse impact on our operations, cash flows and financial position. The United States ethanol industry is highly dependent upon a myriad of federal and state legislation and regulation and any changes in such legislation or regulation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The elimination or reduction of federal excise tax incentives could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. The amount of ethanol production capacity in the U.S. exceeds the mandated usage of renewable biofuels. Ethanol consumption above mandated amounts is primarily based upon the economic benefit derived by blenders, including benefits received from federal excise tax incentives. Therefore, the production of ethanol is made significantly more competitive by federal tax incentives. The federal excise tax incentive program, which is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2010, allows gasoline distributors who blend ethanol with gasoline to receive a federal excise tax rate reduction for each blended gallon they sell regardless of the blend rate. The current federal excise tax on gasoline is $0.184 per gallon, and is paid at the terminal by refiners and marketers. If the fuel is blended with ethanol, the blender may claim a $0.45 per gallon tax credit for each gallon of ethanol used in the mixture. The 2008 Farm Bill enacted into law reduced federal excise tax incentives from $0.51 per gallon in 2008 to $0.45 per gallon in 2009. The federal excise tax incentive program may not be renewed prior to its expiration in 2010, or if renewed, it may be renewed on terms significantly less favorable than current tax incentives. The elimination or significant reduction in the federal excise tax incentive program could reduce discretionary blending and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. Various studies have criticized the efficiency of ethanol in general, and corn-based ethanol in particular, which could lead to the reduction or repeal of incentives and tariffs that promote the use and domestic production of ethanol or otherwise negatively impact public perception and acceptance of ethanol as an alternative fuel. Although many trade groups, academics and governmental agencies have supported ethanol as a fuel additive that promotes a cleaner environment, others have criticized ethanol production as consuming considerably more energy and emitting more greenhouse gases than other biofuels and as potentially depleting water resources. Other studies have suggested that corn-based ethanol is less efficient than ethanol produced from switchgrass or wheat grain and that it negatively impacts consumers by causing higher prices for dairy, meat and other foodstuffs from livestock that consume corn. If these views gain acceptance, support for existing measures promoting the use and domestic production of corn-based ethanol could decline, leading to a reduction or repeal of these measures. These views could also negatively impact public perception of the ethanol industry and acceptance of ethanol as an alternative fuel. -21- Waivers or repeal of the national RFS minimum levels of renewable fuels included in gasoline could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Shortly after passage of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, which increased the minimum mandated required usage of ethanol, a Congressional sub-committee held hearings on the potential impact of the national RFS on commodity prices. While no action was taken by the sub-committee towards repeal of the national RFS, any attempt by Congress to re-visit, repeal or grant waivers of the national RFS could adversely affect demand for ethanol and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. While the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 imposes the national RFS, it does not mandate only the use of ethanol. The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 imposes the national RFS, but does not mandate only the use of ethanol. While the RFA expects that ethanol should account for the largest share of renewable fuels produced and consumed under the national RFS, the national RFS is not limited to ethanol and also includes biodiesel and any other liquid fuel produced from biomass or biogas. The ethanol production and marketing industry is extremely competitive. Many of our significant competitors have greater production and financial resources than we do and one or more of these competitors could use their greater resources to gain market share at our expense. In addition, certain of our suppliers may circumvent our marketing services, causing our sales and profitability to decline. The ethanol production and marketing industry is extremely competitive. Many of our significant competitors in the ethanol production and marketing industry, such as ADM, Cargill, Inc., and other competitors have substantially greater production and/or financial resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to compete more aggressively and sustain that competition over a longer period of time than we could. Successful competition will require a continued high level of investment in marketing and customer service and support. Our lack of resources relative to many of our significant competitors may cause us to fail to anticipate or respond adequately to new developments and other competitive pressures. This failure could reduce our competitiveness and cause a decline in our market share, sales and profitability. Even if sufficient funds are available, we may not be able to make the modifications and improvements necessary to compete successfully. We also face increasing competition from international suppliers. Currently, international suppliers produce ethanol primarily from sugar cane and have cost structures that are generally substantially lower than ours. Any increase in domestic or foreign competition could cause us to reduce our prices and take other steps to compete effectively, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, some of our suppliers are potential competitors and, especially if the price of ethanol reaches historically high levels, they may seek to capture additional profits by circumventing our marketing services in favor of selling directly to our customers. If one or more of our major suppliers, or numerous smaller suppliers, circumvent our marketing services, our sales and profitability may decline. -22- The high concentration of our sales within the ethanol marketing and production industry could result in a significant reduction in sales and negatively affect our profitability if demand for ethanol declines. We expect to be completely focused on the marketing and production of ethanol and its co-products for the foreseeable future. We may be unable to shift our business focus away from the marketing and production of ethanol to other renewable fuels or competing products. Accordingly, an industry shift away from ethanol or the emergence of new competing products may reduce the demand for ethanol. A downturn in the demand for ethanol would likely materially and adversely affect our sales and profitability. We produce and sell our own ethanol but also depend on a small number of third-party suppliers for a significant portion of the ethanol that we sell. If any of these suppliers does not continue to supply us with ethanol in adequate amounts, we may be unable to satisfy the demands of our customers and our sales, profitability and relationships with our customers will be adversely affected. We produce and sell our own ethanol but also depend on a small number of third-party suppliers for a significant portion of the ethanol that we sell. We expect to continue to depend for the foreseeable future upon a small number of third-party suppliers for a significant portion of the ethanol that we sell. Our third-party suppliers are primarily located in the Midwestern United States. The delivery of ethanol from these suppliers is therefore subject to delays resulting from inclement weather and other conditions. If any of these suppliers is unable or declines for any reason to continue to supply us with ethanol in adequate amounts, we may be unable to replace that supplier and source other supplies of ethanol in a timely manner, or at all, to satisfy the demands of our customers. If this occurs, our sales, profitability and our relationships with our customers will be adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and liabilities. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the air, water and ground, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, and the health and safety of our employees. In addition, some of these laws and regulations require our facilities to operate under permits that are subject to renewal or modification. These laws, regulations and permits can often require expensive pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts to the environment. A violation of these laws and regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial fines, natural resource damages, criminal sanctions, permit revocations and/or facility shutdowns. In addition, we have made, and expect to make, significant capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to comply with increasingly stringent environmental laws, regulations and permits. We may be liable for the investigation and cleanup of environmental contamination at each of the properties that we own or operate and at off-site locations where we arrange for the disposal of hazardous substances. If these substances have been or are disposed of or released at sites that undergo investigation and/or remediation by regulatory agencies, we may be responsible under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or other environmental laws for all or part of the costs of investigation and/or remediation, and for damages to natural resources. We may also be subject to related claims by private parties alleging property damage and personal injury due to exposure to hazardous or other materials at or from those properties. Some of these matters may require us to expend significant amounts for investigation, cleanup or other costs. In addition, new laws, new interpretations of existing laws, increased governmental enforcement of environmental laws or other developments could require us to make significant additional expenditures. Continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues can be expected to result in increased future investments for environmental controls at our production facilities. Present and future environmental laws and regulations (and interpretations thereof) applicable to our operations, more vigorous enforcement policies and discovery of currently unknown conditions may require substantial expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. -23- The hazards and risks associated with producing and transporting our products (such as fires, natural disasters, explosions and abnormal pressures and blowouts) may also result in personal injury claims or damage to property and third parties. As protection against operating hazards, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses. However, we could sustain losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Events that result in significant personal injury or damage to our property or third parties or other losses that are not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We depend on a small number of customers for the majority of our sales. A reduction in business from any of these customers could cause a significant decline in our overall sales and profitability. The majority of our sales are generated from a small number of customers. During each of 2009 and 2008, sales to our two largest customers, each of whom accounted for 10% or more of total net sales, represented an aggregate of approximately 32% of our total net sales for those years. We expect that we will continue to depend for the foreseeable future upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales. Our agreements with these customers generally do not require them to purchase any specified amount of ethanol or dollar amount of sales or to make any purchases whatsoever. Therefore, in any future period, our sales generated from these customers, individually or in the aggregate, may not equal or exceed historical levels. If sales to any of these customers cease or decline, we may be unable to replace these sales with sales to either existing or new customers in a timely manner, or at all. A cessation or reduction of sales to one or more of these customers could cause a significant decline in our overall sales and profitability. Our lack of long-term ethanol orders and commitments by our customers could lead to a rapid decline in our sales and profitability. We cannot rely on long-term ethanol orders or commitments by our customers for protection from the negative financial effects of a decline in the demand for ethanol or a decline in the demand for our marketing services. The limited certainty of ethanol orders can make it difficult for us to forecast our sales and allocate our resources in a manner consistent with our actual sales. Moreover, our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future sales and, if our expectations regarding future sales are inaccurate, we may be unable to reduce costs in a timely manner to adjust for sales shortfalls. Furthermore, because we depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, the magnitude of the ramifications of these risks is greater than if our sales were less concentrated. As a result of our lack of long-term ethanol orders and commitments, we may experience a rapid decline in our sales and profitability. We are a minority member of Front Range with limited control over that entity’s business decisions. We are therefore dependent upon the business judgment and conduct of the manager and majority member of that entity. As a result, our interests may not be as well served as if we were in control of Front Range, which could adversely affect its contribution to our results of operations and our business prospects related to that entity. Front Range operates an ethanol production facility located in Windsor, Colorado. We own approximately 42% of Front Range, which represents a minority interest in that entity. The manager and majority member of Front Range owns approximately 54% of that entity and has control of that entity’s business decisions, including decisions related to day-to-day operations. The manager and majority member of Front Range has the right to set the manager’s compensation, determine cash distributions, decide whether or not to expand the ethanol production facility and make most other business decisions on behalf of that entity. We are therefore largely dependent upon the business judgment and conduct of the manager and majority member of Front Range. As a result, our interests may not be as well served as if we were in control of Front Range. Accordingly, the contribution by Front Range to our results of operations and our business prospects related to that entity may be adversely affected by our lack of control over that entity. -24- Risks Related to our Common Stock Our common stock may be involuntarily delisted from trading on NASDAQ if we fail to maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share for any consecutive 30 trading day period. A notification of delisting or a delisting of our common stock would reduce the liquidity of our common stock and inhibit or preclude our ability to raise additional financing and may also materially and adversely impact our credit terms with our vendors. NASDAQ’s quantitative listing standards require, among other things, that listed companies maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share. On September 15, 2009, NASDAQ notified us that we had failed to satisfy this threshold for 30 consecutive trading days, and as a result, our common stock may be involuntarily delisted from trading on NASDAQ once the applicable grace period expired. Our stock price subsequently exceeded the $1.00 per share minimum for ten consecutive trading days and we received a notice from NASDAQ of regained compliance with this listing requirement. Our common stock may again fall below the $1.00 minimum closing bid price in the future. A notification of delisting or delisting of our common stock could reduce the liquidity of our common stock and inhibit or preclude our ability to raise additional financing and may also materially and adversely impact our credit terms with our vendors. As a result of our issuance of shares of Series B Preferred Stock, our common stockholders may experience numerous negative effects and most of the rights of our common stockholders will be subordinate to the rights of the holders of our Series B Preferred Stock. As a result of our issuance of shares of Series B Preferred Stock, our common stockholders may experience numerous negative effects, including dilution from any dividends paid in preferred stock and certain antidilution adjustments. In addition, rights in favor of the holders of our Series B Preferred Stock include: seniority in liquidation and dividend preferences; substantial voting rights; numerous protective provisions; and preemptive rights. Also, our outstanding Series B Preferred Stock could have the effect of delaying, deferring and discouraging another party from acquiring control of Pacific Ethanol. Our stock price is highly volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares of our common stock and in litigation against us. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate in response to one or more of the following factors, many of which are beyond our control: ● our ability to continue as a going concern; ● our ability to operate our subsidiaries pursuant to the terms and conditions of our DIP financing and any cash collateral order entered by the Bankruptcy Court in connection with the Chapter 11 Filings; ● our ability to obtain Court approval with respect to motions in the chapter 11 proceedings prosecuted by us from time to time; ● our ability to develop, prosecute, confirm and consummate one or more plans of reorganization with respect to the Chapter 11 Filings; ● our ability to obtain and maintain normal terms with vendors and service providers; ● our ability to maintain contracts that are critical to our operations; ● fluctuations in the market price of ethanol and its co-products; ● the volume and timing of the receipt of orders for ethanol from major customers; ● competitive pricing pressures; ● our ability to produce, sell and deliver ethanol on a cost-effective and timely basis; -25- ● the introduction and announcement of one or more new alternatives to ethanol by our competitors; ● changes in market valuations of similar companies; ● stock market price and volume fluctuations generally; ● our stock’s relative small public float; ● regulatory developments or increased enforcement; ● fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; ● additions or departures of key personnel; ● our inability to obtain financing; and ● future sales of our common stock or other securities. Furthermore, we believe that the economic conditions in California and other Western states, as well as the United States as a whole, could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Demand for ethanol could also be adversely affected by a slow-down in overall demand for oxygenate and gasoline additive products. The levels of our ethanol production and purchases for resale will be based upon forecasted demand. Accordingly, any inaccuracy in forecasting anticipated revenues and expenses could adversely affect our business. The failure to receive anticipated orders or to complete delivery in any quarterly period could adversely affect our results of operations for that period. Quarterly results are not necessarily indicative of future performance for any particular period, and we may not experience revenue growth or profitability on a quarterly or an annual basis. The price at which you purchase shares of our common stock may not be indicative of the price that will prevail in the trading market. You may be unable to sell your shares of common stock at or above your purchase price, which may result in substantial losses to you and which may include the complete loss of your investment. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of high stock price volatility. We may be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and our resources away from our business. Any of the risks described above could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability and the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 