Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to our Business We have incurred significant losses and negative operating cash flow in the past and we may incur significant losses and negative operating cash flow in the future. Continued losses and negative operating cash flow may hamper our operations and prevent us from expanding our business. We have incurred significant losses and negative operating cash flow in the past. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, we incurred net losses of approximately $14.4 million, $142,000 and $9.9 million, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we incurred negative operating cash flow of approximately $8.1 million. We expect to rely on cash on hand, cash, if any, generated from our operations and cash, if any, generated from our future financing activities to fund all of the cash requirements of our business. Continued losses and negative operating cash flow may hamper our operations and prevent us from expanding our business. Continued losses and negative operating cash flow are also likely to make our capital raising needs more acute while limiting our ability to raise additional financing on satisfactory terms. Various factors could result in inadequate working capital to fully fund our operations or meet our capital expenditure requirements, or both. If ethanol production margins deteriorate from current levels, if we experience additional cost overruns at our ethanol production facilities under construction, if our capital requirements or cash flows otherwise vary materially and adversely from our current projections, or if other adverse unforeseen circumstances occur, our working capital may be inadequate to fully fund our operations or meet our capital expenditure requirements, or both, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and cash flows and may restrict our growth and hinder our ability to compete. 13 We are seeking additional financing and may be unable to obtain this financing on a timely basis, in sufficient amounts, on terms acceptable to us or at all. Any financing we are able to obtain may require us to accept financing on burdensome terms that may cause significant dilution to our stockholders and impose onerous financial restrictions on our business. We are seeking substantial additional financing. Deteriorating global economic and debt and equity market conditions may cause prolonged declines in lender and investor confidence in and accessibility to capital markets. Future financing may not be available on a timely basis, in sufficient amounts, on terms acceptable to us or at all. Any equity financing may cause significant dilution to existing stockholders. Any debt financing or other financing of securities senior to our common stock will likely include financial and other covenants that will restrict our flexibility. At a minimum, we expect these covenants to include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Any failure to comply with these covenants could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations because we could lose any then-existing sources of financing and our ability to secure new financing may be impaired. In addition, any prospective debt or equity financing transaction will be subject to the negotiation of definitive documents and any closing under those documents will be subject to the satisfaction of numerous conditions, many of which could be beyond our control. We may be unable to obtain additional financing from one or more lenders or equity investors, or if funding is available, it may be available only on burdensome terms that may cause significant dilution to our stockholders and impose onerous financial restrictions on our business. Increased ethanol production may cause a decline in ethanol prices or prevent ethanol prices from rising, and may have other negative effects, adversely impacting our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We believe that the most significant factor influencing the price of ethanol has been the substantial increase in ethanol production in recent years. Domestic ethanol production capacity has increased steadily from an annualized rate of 1.7 billion gallons per year in January 1999 to 7.2 billion gallons per year according to the RFA. In addition, we believe that a significant amount of ethanol production capacity—approximately 4.4 billion gallons per year—is currently under construction. This production capacity is being added to address anticipated increases in demand, including from increased volume requirements under the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. See “Business—Governmental Regulation.” However, increases in the demand for ethanol may not be commensurate with increases in the supply of ethanol, thus leading to lower ethanol prices. Demand for ethanol could be impaired due to a number of factors, including regulatory developments and reduced United States gasoline consumption. Reduced gasoline consumption could occur as a result of increased gasoline or oil prices. Increased ethanol production could also have other adverse effects. For example, increased ethanol production could lead to increased supplies of co-products generated from ethanol production, such as WDG. Those increased supplies could lead to lower prices for those co-products. Also, increased ethanol production could result in increased demand for corn. Increased demand for corn could cause higher corn prices, resulting in higher ethanol production costs and lower profit margins. We believe that significantly higher corn prices and lower profit margins throughout 2007 were predominantly caused by increased demand for corn resulting from increased ethanol production. Accordingly, increased ethanol production may cause a decline in ethanol prices or prevent ethanol prices from rising, and may have other negative effects, adversely impacting our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 14 The raw materials and energy necessary to produce ethanol may be unavailable or may increase in price, adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. The principal raw material we use to produce ethanol and its co-products is corn. Changes in the price of corn can significantly affect our business. In general, rising corn prices result in lower profit margins and, therefore, represent unfavorable market conditions. This is especially true since market conditions generally do not allow us to pass along increased corn prices to our customers because the price of ethanol is primarily determined by other factors, such as the supply of ethanol and the price of oil and gasoline. At certain levels, corn prices may even make ethanol production uneconomical depending on the prevailing price of ethanol. The price of corn is influenced by general economic, market and regulatory factors. These factors include weather conditions, crop conditions and yields, farmer planting decisions, government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade and global supply and demand. The significance and relative impact of these factors on the price of corn is difficult to predict. Any event that tends to negatively impact the supply of corn will tend to increase prices and potentially harm our business. Average corn prices as measured by the Chicago Board of Trade increased 44% from 2006 to 2007. The United States Department of Agriculture’s December 2007 crop report estimated that corn bought by ethanol plants will represent approximately 22% of the 2007/2008 crop year’s total corn supply, up from 17% in the prior crop year. We believe that significantly higher corn costs and lower profit margins throughout 2007 were substantially caused by increased demand for corn resulting from increased ethanol production. Additional increases in ethanol production could further boost demand for corn and result in further increases in corn prices. Our business also depends on the continuing availability of rail, road, port, storage and distribution infrastructure. In particular, due to limited storage capacity at our production facilities and other considerations related to production efficiencies, we depend on just-in-time delivery of corn. The production of ethanol also requires a significant and uninterrupted supply of other raw materials and energy, primarily water, electricity and natural gas. The prices of electricity and natural gas have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. Local water, electricity and gas utilities may not be able to reliably supply the water, electricity and natural gas that our facilities will need or may not be able to supply those resources on acceptable terms. Any disruptions in the ethanol production infrastructure network, whether caused by labor difficulties, earthquakes, storms, other natural disasters or human error or malfeasance or other reasons, could prevent timely deliveries of corn or other raw materials and energy and may require us to halt production which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Numerous factors may prevent us from implementing our planned expansion strategy. Our strategy envisions a period of rapid growth. We plan to grow our business by investing in new facilities and/or acquiring existing facilities or sites under development as well as pursuing other business opportunities such as the production of other renewable fuels to the extent we deem those opportunities advisable. We believe that there is increasing competition for suitable production sites. We may not find suitable additional sites for construction of new facilities, suitable acquisition candidates or other suitable expansion opportunities. We will need substantial additional financing to achieve our business objectives and we may not have access to the funding required for the expansion of our business or funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms. We plan to fund the expansion of our business with additional debt and equity financing. We could face financial risks associated with incurring additional indebtedness, such as reducing our liquidity and access to financial markets and increasing the amount of cash flow required to service such indebtedness, or associated with issuing additional stock, such as dilution of ownership and earnings. In addition, we are planning the financing of our expansion strategy and we are initially using our existing cash to implement this strategy based on the belief that we can secure additional debt and equity financing in the future in order to complete our expansion. If we are unable to secure this debt and equity financing, we may suffer from an acute lack of capital resources, our planned expansion strategy may be less successful than if we had planned solely on using our existing cash to finance our expansion, and our business and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. 15 We must also obtain numerous regulatory approvals and permits in order to construct and operate additional or expanded production facilities. These requirements may not be satisfied in a timely manner or at all. Federal and state governmental requirements may substantially increase our costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our expansion plans may also result in other unanticipated adverse consequences, such as the diversion of management’s attention from our existing operations. Our construction costs may also increase to levels that would make a new production facility too expensive to complete or unprofitable to operate. We do not have any fixed-price construction contracts and we have experienced significant cost-overruns in the past and may experience additional cost-overruns in the future. Contractors, engineering firms, construction firms and equipment suppliers also receive requests and orders from other ethanol companies and, therefore, we may not be able to secure their services or products on a timely basis or on acceptable financial terms. We may suffer significant delays or cost overruns as a result of a variety of factors, such as shortages of workers or materials, transportation constraints, adverse weather, unforeseen difficulties or labor issues, any of which could prevent us from commencing operations at our facilities as expected. Rapid growth may impose a significant burden on our administrative and operational resources. Our ability to effectively manage our growth will require us to substantially expand the capabilities of our administrative and operational resources and to attract, train, manage and retain qualified management, technicians and other personnel. We may be unable to do so. We engage in hedging transactions and other risk mitigation strategies that could harm our results of operations. In an attempt to partially offset the effects of volatility of ethanol prices and corn and natural gas costs, we often enter into contracts to supply a portion of our ethanol production or purchase a portion of our corn or natural gas requirements on a forward basis. In addition, we engage in other hedging transactions involving exchange-traded futures contracts for corn, natural gas and unleaded gasoline from time to time. The financial statement impact of these activities is dependent upon, among other things, the prices involved and our ability to sell sufficient products to use all of the corn and natural gas for which we have futures contracts. We also engage in hedging transactions involving interest rate swaps related to our debt financing activities, the financial statement impact of which is dependent upon, among other things, fluctuations in prevailing interest rates. Hedging arrangements also expose us to the risk of financial loss in situations where the other party to the hedging contract defaults on its contract or, in the case of exchange-traded contracts, where there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual prices paid or received by us. Hedging activities can themselves result in losses when a position is purchased in a declining market or a position is sold in a rising market. A hedge position for a physical commodity is often settled in the same time frame as the physical commodity is either purchased or sold. Certain hedging losses may be offset by a decreased cash price for corn and natural gas and an increased cash price for ethanol. We also vary the amount of hedging or other risk mitigation strategies we undertake, and from time to time we may choose not to engage in hedging transactions at all. As a result, our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the price of corn, natural gas, ethanol, unleaded gasoline and prevailing interest rates. 16 The market price of ethanol is volatile and subject to large fluctuations, which may cause our profitability or losses to fluctuate significantly. The market price of ethanol is volatile and subject to large fluctuations. The market price of ethanol is dependent upon many factors, including the supply of ethanol and the price of gasoline, which is in turn dependent upon the price of petroleum which is highly volatile and difficult to forecast. For example, our average sales price of ethanol in 2007 declined by approximately 6% from our 2006 average sales price per gallon, but increased 37% in 2006 from our 2005 average sales price per gallon. Fluctuations in the market price of ethanol may cause our profitability or losses to fluctuate significantly. We have identified two material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in each Annual Report on Form 10-K. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. We have identified the following two material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that existed as of December 31, 2007: (i) we did not have adequate internal control over our accrual of construction-related costs for our ethanol production facilities; and (ii) we did not exercise oversight of our personnel or their actions in a manner reasonably calculated to ensure compliance under the Credit Agreement governing our credit facility. See “Controls and Procedures.” Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. As a result, we cannot assure you that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding disclosure controls and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. 17 Operational difficulties at our production facilities could negatively impact our sales volumes and could cause us to incur substantial losses. Our operations are subject to labor disruptions, unscheduled downtime and other operational hazards inherent in our industry, such as equipment failures, fires, explosions, abnormal pressures, blowouts, pipeline ruptures, transportation accidents and natural disasters. Some of these operational hazards may cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Our insurance may not be adequate to fully cover the potential operational hazards described above or we may not be able to renew this insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Moreover, our plants may not operate as planned or expected. All of our plants are designed to operate at or above a certain production capacity. The operation of our plants is and will be, however, subject to various uncertainties. As a result, our plants may not produce ethanol and WDG at the levels we expect. In the event any of our plants do not run at their expected capacity levels, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. The United States ethanol industry is highly dependent upon a myriad of federal and state legislation and regulation and any changes in such legislation or regulation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The elimination or significant reduction in the Federal Excise Tax Credit could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The production of ethanol is made significantly more competitive by federal tax incentives. The federal excise tax incentive program, which is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2010, allows gasoline distributors who blend ethanol with gasoline to receive a federal excise tax rate reduction for each blended gallon they sell regardless of the blend rate. The current federal excise tax on gasoline is $0.184 per gallon, and is paid at the terminal by refiners and marketers. If the fuel is blended with ethanol, the blender may claim a $0.51 per gallon tax credit for each gallon of ethanol used in the mixture. The federal excise tax incentive program may not be renewed prior to its expiration in 2010, or if renewed, it may be renewed on terms significantly less favorable than current tax incentives. The elimination or significant reduction in the federal excise tax incentive program could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Waivers or repeal of the national RFS minimum levels of renewable fuels included in gasoline could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Shortly after passage of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, which increased the minimum mandated required usage of ethanol, a Congressional sub-committee held hearings on the potential impact of the new national RFS on commodity prices. While no action was taken by the sub-committee towards repeal of the new national RFS, any attempt by Congress to re-visit, repeal or grant waivers of the new national RFS could adversely affect demand for ethanol and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 18 While the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 imposes the national RFS, it does not mandate only the use of ethanol. The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 imposes the national RFS, but does not mandate only the use of ethanol. While the RFA expects that ethanol should account for the largest share of renewable fuels produced and consumed under the national RFS, the national RFS is not limited to ethanol and also includes biodiesel and any other liquid fuel produced from biomass or biogas. The ethanol production and marketing industry is extremely competitive. Many of our significant competitors have greater production and financial resources than we do and one or more of these competitors could use their greater resources to gain market share at our expense. In addition, certain of our suppliers may circumvent our marketing services, causing our sales and profitability to decline. The ethanol production and marketing industry is extremely competitive. Many of our significant competitors in the ethanol production and marketing industry, such as ADM, Cargill, Inc., VeraSun Energy Corporation, Aventine Renewable Energy, Inc. and Abengoa Bioenergy Corp., have substantially greater production and financial resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to compete more aggressively and sustain that competition over a longer period of time than we could. Successful competition will require a continued high level of investment in marketing and customer service and support. Our lack of resources relative to many of our significant competitors may cause us to fail to anticipate or respond adequately to new developments and other competitive pressures. This failure could reduce our competitiveness and cause a decline in our market share, sales and profitability. Even if sufficient funds are available, we may not be able to make the modifications and improvements necessary to successfully compete. We also face increasing competition from international suppliers. Currently, international suppliers produce ethanol primarily from sugar cane and have cost structures that are generally substantially lower than ours. Any increase in domestic or foreign competition could cause us to reduce our prices and take other steps to compete effectively, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, some of our suppliers are potential competitors and, especially if the price of ethanol reaches historically high levels, they may seek to capture additional profits by circumventing our marketing services in favor of selling directly to our customers. If one or more of our major suppliers, or numerous smaller suppliers, circumvent our marketing services, our sales and profitability may decline. The high concentration of our sales within the ethanol marketing and production industry could result in a significant reduction in sales and negatively affect our profitability if demand for ethanol declines. We expect to be completely focused on the marketing and production of ethanol and its co-products for the foreseeable future. We may be unable to shift our business focus away from the marketing and production of ethanol to other renewable fuels or competing products. Accordingly, an industry shift away from ethanol or the emergence of new competing products may reduce the demand for ethanol. A downturn in the demand for ethanol would likely materially and adversely affect our sales and profitability. 19 We produce and sell our own ethanol but also depend on a small number of third-party suppliers for a significant portion of the ethanol that we sell. If any of these suppliers does not continue to supply us with ethanol in adequate amounts, we may be unable to satisfy the demands of our customers and our sales, profitability and relationships with our customers will be adversely affected. We produce and sell our own ethanol but also depend on a small number of third-party suppliers for a significant portion of the ethanol that we sell. Our largest third-party ethanol suppliers, each of whom accounted for 10% or more of total ethanol purchases, represented approximately 68% and 50% of the total ethanol we purchased during 2007 and 2006, respectively. We expect to continue to depend for the foreseeable future upon a small number of third-party suppliers for a significant portion of the ethanol that we sell. Our third-party suppliers are primarily located in the Midwestern United States. The delivery of ethanol from these suppliers is therefore subject to delays resulting from inclement weather and other conditions. If any of these suppliers is unable or declines for any reason to continue to supply us with ethanol in adequate amounts, we may be unable to replace that supplier and source other supplies of ethanol in a timely manner, or at all, to satisfy the demands of our customers. If this occurs, our sales, profitability and our relationships with our customers will be adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and liabilities. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the air, water and ground, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, and the health and safety of our employees. In addition, some of these laws and regulations require our facilities to operate under permits that are subject to renewal or modification. These laws, regulations and permits can often require expensive pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts to the environment. A violation of these laws and regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial fines, natural resource damages, criminal sanctions, permit revocations and/or facility shutdowns. In addition, we have made, and expect to make, significant capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to comply with increasingly stringent environmental laws, regulations and permits. We may be liable for the investigation and cleanup of environmental contamination at each of the properties that we own or operate and at off-site locations where we arrange for the disposal of hazardous substances. If these substances have been or are disposed of or released at sites that undergo investigation and/or remediation by regulatory agencies, we may be responsible under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or other environmental laws for all or part of the costs of investigation and/or remediation, and for damages to natural resources. We may also be subject to related claims by private parties alleging property damage and personal injury due to exposure to hazardous or other materials at or from those properties. Some of these matters may require us to expend significant amounts for investigation, cleanup or other costs. In addition, new laws, new interpretations of existing laws, increased governmental enforcement of environmental laws or other developments could require us to make additional significant expenditures. Continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues can be expected to result in increased future investments for environmental controls at our production facilities. Present and future environmental laws and regulations (and interpretations thereof) applicable to our operations, more vigorous enforcement policies and discovery of currently unknown conditions may require substantial expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 20 The hazards and risks associated with producing and transporting our products (such as fires, natural disasters, explosions and abnormal pressures and blowouts) may also result in personal injury claims or damage to property and third parties. As protection against operating hazards, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses. However, we could sustain losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Events that result in significant personal injury or damage to our property or third parties or other losses that are not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We depend on a small number of customers for the majority of our sales. A reduction in business from any of these customers could cause a significant decline in our overall sales and profitability. The majority of our sales are generated from a small number of customers. During 2007, sales to our two largest customers, each of whom accounted for 10% or more of total net sales, represented an aggregate of approximately 32% of our total net sales. During 2006, sales to our two largest customers, each of whom accounted for 10% or more of total net sales, represented an aggregate of approximately 25% of our total net sales. We expect that we will continue to depend for the foreseeable future upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales. Our agreements with these customers generally do not require them to purchase any specified amount of ethanol or dollar amount of sales or to make any purchases whatsoever. Therefore, in any future period, our sales generated from these customers, individually or in the aggregate, may not equal or exceed historical levels. If sales to any of these customers cease or decline, we may be unable to replace these sales with sales to either existing or new customers in a timely manner, or at all. A cessation or reduction of sales to one or more of these customers could cause a significant decline in our overall sales and profitability. Our lack of long-term ethanol orders and commitments by our customers could lead to a rapid decline in our sales and profitability. We cannot rely on long-term ethanol orders or commitments by our customers for protection from the negative financial effects of a decline in the demand for ethanol or a decline in the demand for our marketing services. The limited certainty of ethanol orders can make it difficult for us to forecast our sales and allocate our resources in a manner consistent with our actual sales. Moreover, our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future sales and, if our expectations regarding future sales are inaccurate, we may be unable to reduce costs in a timely manner to adjust for sales shortfalls. Furthermore, because we depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, the magnitude of the ramifications of these risks is greater than if our sales were less concentrated. As a result of our lack of long-term ethanol orders and commitments, we may experience a rapid decline in our sales and profitability. We are a minority member of Front Range with limited control over that entity’s business decisions. We are therefore dependent upon the business judgment and conduct of the manager and majority member of that entity. As a result, our interests may not be as well served as if we were in control of Front Range, which could adversely affect its contribution to our results of operations and our business prospects related to that entity. Front Range operates an ethanol production facility located in Windsor, Colorado. We own approximately 42% of Front Range, which represents a minority interest in that entity. The manager and majority member of Front Range owns approximately 54% of that entity and has control of that entity’s business decisions, including those related to day-to-day operations. The manager and majority member of Front Range has the right to set the manager’s compensation, determine cash distributions, decide whether or not to expand the ethanol production facility and make most other business decisions on behalf of that entity. We are therefore largely dependent upon the business judgment and conduct of the manager and majority member of Front Range. As a result, our interests may not be as well served as if we were in control of Front Range. Accordingly, the contribution by Front Range to our results of operations and our business prospectus related to that entity may be adversely affected by our lack of control over that entity. 21 Risks Related to our Common Stock Our common stock has a small public float and shares of our common stock eligible for public sale could cause the market price of our stock to drop, even if our business is doing well, and make it difficult for us to raise additional capital through sales of equity securities. As of March 24, 2008, we had outstanding approximately 40.7 million shares of our common stock. Approximately 7.1 million of these shares were restricted under the Securities Act of 1933, or Securities Act, including approximately 4.7 million shares owned, in the aggregate, by our executive officers, directors and 10% stockholders. Accordingly, our common stock has a relatively small public float of approximately 33.6 million shares. We have registered for resale a substantial number of shares of our common stock, including approximately 10.6 million shares of our common stock underlying our Series A Preferred Stock. The holder of these shares is permitted, subject to few limitations, to freely sell these shares of common stock. As a result of our relatively small public float, sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or in anticipation that such sales could occur, may materially and adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. In addition, any adverse effect on the market price of our common stock could make it difficult for us to raise additional capital through sales of equity securities at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As a result of our issuance of shares of Series A Preferred Stock to Cascade Investment, L.L.C. and our issuance of Series B Preferred Stock to Lyles United, LLC, our common stockholders may experience numerous negative effects and most of the rights of our common stockholders will be subordinate to the rights of the holders of our preferred stock. As a result of our issuance of shares of Series A Preferred Stock to Cascade Investment, L.L.C. and our issuance of Series B Preferred Stock to Lyles United, LLC, our common stockholders may experience numerous negative effects, including dilution from dividends paid in preferred stock and certain antidilution adjustments. In addition, rights in favor of the holders of our preferred stock include: seniority in liquidation and dividend preferences; substantial voting rights; numerous protective provisions; as to the holder of our Series A Preferred Stock, the right to appoint two persons to our board of directors and periodically nominate two persons for election by our stockholders to our board of directors; preemptive rights; and redemption rights. Also, our outstanding preferred stock could have the effect of delaying, deferring and discouraging another party from acquiring control of Pacific Ethanol. In addition, based on our current number of shares of common stock outstanding, Cascade Investment, L.L.C. has approximately 19% and Lyles United, LLC has approximately 13% of all outstanding voting power as compared to approximately 8% of all outstanding voting power held in aggregate by our current executive officers and directors. Also, in the event that we are profitable, our preferred stock would likewise result in a decrease in our diluted earnings per share by an aggregate of approximately 31%, without taking into account cash or stock payable as dividends on our preferred stock. Any of the above factors may materially and adversely affect our common stockholders and the values of their investments in our common stock. 22 Our stock price is highly volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares of our common stock and in litigation against us. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate in response to one or more of the following factors, many of which are beyond our control: · changing conditions in the ethanol and fuel markets as well as other commodity markets such as corn; · the volume and timing of the receipt of orders for ethanol from major customers; · competitive pricing pressures; · our ability to produce, sell and deliver ethanol on a cost-effective and timely basis; · the introduction and announcement of one or more new alternatives to ethanol by our competitors; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · stock market price and volume fluctuations generally; · regulatory developments or increased enforcement; · fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; · additions or departures of key personnel; · our inability to obtain construction, acquisition, capital equipment and/or working capital financing; and · future sales of our common stock or other securities. Furthermore, we believe that the economic conditions in California and other Western states, as well as the United States as a whole, could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Demand for ethanol could also be adversely affected by a slow-down in overall demand for oxygenate and gasoline additive products. The levels of our ethanol production and purchases for resale will be based upon forecasted demand. Accordingly, any inaccuracy in forecasting anticipated revenues and expenses could adversely affect our business. The failure to receive anticipated orders or to complete delivery in any quarterly period could adversely affect our results of operations for that period. Quarterly results are not necessarily indicative of future performance for any particular period, and we may not experience revenue growth or profitability on a quarterly or an annual basis. The price at which you purchase shares of our common stock may not be indicative of the price that will prevail in the trading market. You may be unable to sell your shares of common stock at or above your purchase price, which may result in substantial losses to you and which may include the complete loss of your investment. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of stock price volatility. We may be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and our resources away from our business. Any of the risks described above could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability and also the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 23 Item 