Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to our Business We have incurred significant losses and negative operating cash flow in the past and we may incur significant losses and negative operating cash flow in the foreseeable future. Continued losses and negative operating cash flow will hamper our operations and prevent us from expanding our business. We have incurred significant losses and negative operating cash flow in the past. For 2011, we incurred a consolidated net loss of approximately $4.0 million and negative operating cash flow of approximately $4.0 million. For 2009, we incurred a consolidated net loss of approximately $308.7 million and negative operating cash flow of approximately $6.3 million. Although we reported consolidated net income of $69.5 million for 2010, primarily due to a $119.4 million net gain in connection with the completion of the bankruptcy proceedings of our former indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, we incurred negative operating cash flow of approximately $37.0 million. We believe that we may incur significant losses and negative operating cash flow in the foreseeable future. We expect to rely on cash on hand, cash, if any, generated from our operations and cash, generated from future financing activities, if any, to fund all of the cash requirements of our business. Continued losses and negative operating cash flow may hamper our operations and impede us from expanding our business. Continued losses and negative operating cash flow are also likely to make our capital raising needs more acute while limiting our ability to raise additional financing on favorable terms. The results of our operations and our ability to operate at a profit is largely dependent on managing the prices of corn, natural gas, ethanol and WDG, all of which are subject to significant volatility and uncertainty. Our results of operations are highly impacted by commodity prices, including the cost of corn and natural gas that we must purchase, and the prices of ethanol and WDG that we sell. Prices and supplies are subject to and determined by market forces over which we have no control, such as weather, domestic and global demand, shortages, export prices and various governmental policies in the United States and around the world. For example, over a period of four weeks at the end of 2011, the market price of ethanol declined by approximately 28%, which substantially reduced our fourth quarter and full year profitability. As a result of price volatility of corn, natural gas, ethanol and WDG, our results of operations may fluctuate substantially. In addition, increases in corn or natural gas prices or decreases in ethanol or WDG prices may make it unprofitable to operate. In fact, some of our marketing activities will likely be unprofitable in a market of generally declining ethanol prices due to the nature of our business. For example, to satisfy customer demands, we must maintain certain quantities of ethanol inventory for subsequent resale. Moreover, we procure much of our inventory outside the context of a marketing arrangement and therefore must buy ethanol at a price established at the time of purchase and sell ethanol at an index price established later at the time of sale that is generally reflective of movements in the market price of ethanol. As a result, our margins for ethanol sold in these transactions generally decline and may turn negative as the market price of ethanol declines. No assurance can be given that corn or natural gas can be purchased at, or near, current or any particular prices or that ethanol or WDG will sell at, or near, current or any particular prices. Consequently, our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected by increases in the price of corn or natural gas or decreases in the price of ethanol or WDG. 12 Over the past several years, the spread between ethanol and corn prices has fluctuated widely and narrowed significantly. Fluctuations are likely to continue to occur. A sustained narrow spread or any further reduction in the spread between ethanol and corn prices, whether as a result of sustained high or increased corn prices or sustained low or decreased ethanol prices, would adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Further, combined revenues from sales of ethanol and WDG could decline below the marginal cost of production, which could cause us to suspend production of ethanol and WDG at some or all of the Pacific Ethanol Plants. We are a minority member of New PE Holdco with limited control over certain business decisions. As a result, our interests may not be as well served as if we were in control of all aspects of the business of New PE Holdco, which could adversely affect its contribution to our results of operations and our business prospects related to that entity. New PE Holdco owns, and we operate, the Pacific Ethanol Plants. We have a 34% ownership interest in New PE Holdco. While this represents the single largest ownership position in New PE Holdco and although we have the power to make decisions regarding the activities of New PE Holdco that most significantly impact New PE Holdco’s economic performance by virtue of the terms of the asset management agreement we have with New PE Holdco and the Plant Owners, the consent of the other owners is required to approve certain actions, including incurring new indebtedness or refinancing existing indebtedness, entering into contracts with a term of greater than one year or a value of more than $1.0 million, making of certain capital expenditures, restarting an idle plant and sale or disposition of any plant assets. Some actions require the consent of all owners and others require the consent of holders of 67% or 85% of the ownership interests. In addition, we are precluded from voting on matters in which we have a direct financial interest, such as the amendment or extension of the asset management agreement we have with New PE Holdco and the Plant Owners and/or the marketing agreements we have with the Plant Owners whose facilities are operational. As a result of these limitations, we are dependent on the business judgment of the other owners of New PE Holdco in respect of a number of significant matters bearing on the operations of the Pacific Ethanol Plants. Consequently, our interests may not be as well served as if we were in control of New PE Holdco, and the contribution by New PE Holdco to our results of operations and our business prospects related to that entity may be adversely affected by our lack of control over that entity. The termination of the asset management agreement and marketing agreements to which we are a party relating to New PE Holdco and the Pacific Ethanol Plants could lead to the deconsolidation of the financial statements of New PE Holdco. If that were to occur, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The asset management agreement and marketing agreements relating to New PE Holdco and the Pacific Ethanol Plants vest with us the power to direct substantially all of the activities of New PE Holdco that most significantly impact New PE Holdco’s economic performance. In addition, through our ownership interest in New PE Holdco, we are in a position to absorb losses and receive benefits from New PE Holdco that could potentially be significant to New PE Holdco. As a result, we are required to consolidate the financial results of New PE Holdco. The asset management and marketing agreements have terms of one year and automatically renew for successive one year terms unless terminated by any party by giving notice 90 days prior to the end of any one-year period. If any of these agreements were terminated, we would be required to reassess whether we would continue to have a controlling financial interest in New PE Holdco. If we no longer had a controlling financial interest in New PE Holdco, we would no longer be able to account for the financial results of New PE Holdco on a consolidated basis. If that were to occur, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 13 Increased ethanol production may cause a decline in ethanol prices or prevent ethanol prices from rising, and may have other negative effects, adversely impacting our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We believe that the most significant factor influencing the price of ethanol has been the substantial increase in ethanol production in recent years. Domestic ethanol production capacity has increased steadily from an annualized rate of 1.5 billion gallons per year in January 1999 to 13.5 billion gallons in 2010 according to the RFA. See “Business—Governmental Regulation.” However, increases in the demand for ethanol may not be commensurate with increases in the supply of ethanol, thus leading to lower ethanol prices. Demand for ethanol could be impaired due to a number of factors, including regulatory developments and reduced United States gasoline consumption. Reduced gasoline consumption has occurred in the past and could occur in the future as a result of increased gasoline or oil prices. The market price of ethanol is volatile and subject to large fluctuations, which may cause our profitability or losses to fluctuate significantly. The market price of ethanol is volatile and subject to large fluctuations. The market price of ethanol is dependent upon many factors, including the supply of ethanol and the price of gasoline, which is in turn dependent upon the price of petroleum which is highly volatile and difficult to forecast. For example, although the market price of ethanol increased by approximately 42% for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to 2010, during a period of four weeks at the end of 2011, the market price of ethanol declined by approximately 28%, which substantially reduced our fourth quarter and full year profitability. Fluctuations in the market price of ethanol may cause our profitability or losses to fluctuate significantly. Some of our marketing activities will likely be unprofitable in a market of generally declining ethanol prices due to the nature of our business. Some of our marketing activities will likely be unprofitable in a market of generally declining ethanol prices due to the nature of our business. For example, to satisfy customer demands, we must maintain certain quantities of ethanol inventory for subsequent resale. Moreover, we procure much of our inventory outside the context of a marketing arrangement and therefore must buy ethanol at a price established at the time of purchase and sell ethanol at an index price established later at the time of sale that is generally reflective of movements in the market price of ethanol. As a result, our margins for ethanol sold in these transactions generally decline and may turn negative as the market price of ethanol declines. Disruptions in ethanol production infrastructure may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends on the continuing availability of rail, road, port, storage and distribution infrastructure. In particular, due to limited storage capacity at the Pacific Ethanol Plants and other considerations related to production efficiencies, the Pacific Ethanol Plants depend on just-in-time delivery of corn. The production of ethanol also requires a significant and uninterrupted supply of other raw materials and energy, primarily water, electricity and natural gas. The prices of electricity and natural gas have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. Local water, electricity and gas utilities may not be able to reliably supply the water, electricity and natural gas that the Pacific Ethanol Plants will need or may not be able to supply those resources on acceptable terms. Any disruptions in the ethanol production infrastructure, whether caused by labor difficulties, earthquakes, storms, other natural disasters or human error or malfeasance or other reasons, could prevent timely deliveries of corn or other raw materials and energy and may require the Pacific Ethanol Plants to halt production which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 14 The volatility in the financial and commodities markets and sustained weakening of the economy could further significantly impact our business and financial condition and may limit our ability to raise additional capital. As widely reported, financial markets in the United States and the rest of the world have experienced extreme disruption, including, among other things, extreme volatility in securities and commodities prices, as well as severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. As a result, we believe that our ability to access capital markets and raise funds required for our operations may be severely restricted at a time when we may need to do so, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our current and future funding requirements and on our ability to react to changing economic and business conditions. We are not able to predict the duration or severity of any current or future disruption in financial markets, fluctuations in the price of crude oil or other adverse economic conditions in the United States. However, if economic conditions worsen, it is likely that these factors would have a further adverse effect on our results of operations and future prospects and may limit our ability to raise additional capital. We and the Pacific Ethanol Plants may engage in hedging transactions and other risk mitigation strategies that could harm our results of operations. In an attempt to partially offset the effects of volatility of ethanol prices and corn and natural gas costs, the Pacific Ethanol Plants may enter into contracts to fix the price of a portion of their ethanol production or purchase a portion of their corn or natural gas requirements on a forward basis. In addition, we may engage in other hedging transactions involving exchange-traded futures contracts for corn, natural gas and unleaded gasoline from time to time. The financial statement impact of these activities is dependent upon, among other things, the prices involved and our ability to sell sufficient products to use all of the corn and natural gas for which forward commitments have been made. Hedging arrangements also expose us to the risk of financial loss in situations where the other party to the hedging contract defaults on its contract or, in the case of exchange-traded contracts, where there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual prices paid or received by us. As a result, our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the price of corn, natural gas, ethanol and unleaded gasoline. Operational difficulties at the Pacific Ethanol Plants could negatively impact sales volumes and could cause us to incur substantial losses. Operations at the Pacific Ethanol Plants are subject to labor disruptions, unscheduled downtimes and other operational hazards inherent in the ethanol production industry, including equipment failures, fires, explosions, abnormal pressures, blowouts, pipeline ruptures, transportation accidents and natural disasters. Some of these operational hazards may cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Insurance obtained by the Pacific Ethanol Plants may not be adequate to fully cover the potential operational hazards described above or the Pacific Ethanol Plants may not be able to renew this insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Moreover, the production facilities at the Pacific Ethanol Plants may not operate as planned or expected. All of these facilities are designed to operate at or above a specified production capacity. The operation of these facilities is and will be, however, subject to various uncertainties. As a result, these facilities may not produce ethanol and its co-products at expected levels. In the event any of these facilities do not run at their expected capacity levels, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. 15 The United States ethanol industry is highly dependent upon myriad federal and state legislation and regulation and any changes in legislation or regulation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Various studies have criticized the efficiency of ethanol in general, and corn-based ethanol in particular, which could lead to the reduction or repeal of mandates that require the use and domestic production of ethanol or otherwise negatively impact public perception and acceptance of ethanol as an alternative fuel. Although many trade groups, academics and governmental agencies have supported ethanol as a fuel additive that promotes a cleaner environment, others have criticized ethanol production as consuming considerably more energy and emitting more greenhouse gases than other biofuels and as potentially depleting water resources. Other studies have suggested that ethanol negatively impacts consumers by causing higher prices for dairy, meat and other foodstuffs from livestock that consume corn. If these views gain acceptance, support for existing measures requiring the use and domestic production of corn-based ethanol could decline, leading to a reduction or repeal of these measures. These views could also negatively impact public perception of the ethanol industry and acceptance of ethanol as a component for blending in transportation fuel. Waivers or repeal of the national Renewable Fuel Standard’s minimum levels of renewable fuels included in gasoline could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Shortly after passage of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, which increased the minimum mandated required usage of ethanol, a Congressional sub-committee held hearings on the potential impact of the national RFS on commodity prices. While no action was taken by the sub-committee towards repeal of the national RFS, any attempt by Congress to re-visit, repeal or grant waivers of the national RFS could adversely affect demand for ethanol and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The ethanol production and marketing industry is extremely competitive. Many of our significant competitors have greater production and financial resources and one or more of these competitors could use their greater resources to gain market share at our expense. In addition, a number of Kinergy’s suppliers may circumvent the marketing services we provide, causing our sales and profitability to decline. The ethanol production and marketing industry is extremely competitive. Many of our significant competitors in the ethanol production and marketing industry, including ADM and Valero, have substantially greater production and/or financial resources. As a result, our competitors may be able to compete more aggressively and sustain that competition over a longer period of time. Successful competition will require a continued high level of investment in marketing and customer service and support. Our limited resources relative to many significant competitors may cause us to fail to anticipate or respond adequately to new developments and other competitive pressures. This failure could reduce our competitiveness and cause a decline in market share, sales and profitability. Even if sufficient funds are available, we may not be able to make the modifications and improvements necessary to compete successfully. We also face increasing competition from international suppliers. Currently, international suppliers produce ethanol primarily from sugar cane and have cost structures that are generally substantially lower than the cost structures of the Pacific Ethanol Plants. Any increase in domestic or foreign competition could cause the Pacific Ethanol Plants to reduce their prices and take other steps to compete effectively, which could adversely affect their and our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, some of our suppliers are potential competitors and, especially if the price of ethanol reaches historically high levels, they may seek to capture additional profits by circumventing our marketing services in favor of selling directly to our customers. If one or more of our major suppliers, or numerous smaller suppliers, circumvent our marketing services, our sales and profitability may decline. 16 If Kinergy fails to satisfy its financial covenants under its credit facility, it may experience a loss or reduction of that facility, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are substantially dependent on the credit facility of Kinergy Marketing LLC, or Kinergy, to help finance its operations. Kinergy must satisfy quarterly financial covenants under its credit facility, including covenants regarding its quarterly EBITDA and fixed coverage ratios. Kinergy will be in default under its credit facility if it fails to satisfy any financial covenant. A default may result in the loss or reduction of the credit facility. The loss of Kinergy’s credit facility, or a significant reduction in Kinergy’s borrowing capacity under the facility, would result in Kinergy’s inability to finance a significant portion of its business and would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The high concentration of our sales within the ethanol marketing and production industry could result in a significant reduction in sales and negatively affect our profitability if demand for ethanol declines. We expect to be completely focused on the marketing and production of ethanol and its co-products for the foreseeable future. We may be unable to shift our business focus away from the marketing and production of ethanol to other renewable fuels or competing products. Accordingly, an industry shift away from ethanol or the emergence of new competing products may reduce the demand for ethanol. A downturn in the demand for ethanol would likely materially and adversely affect our sales and profitability. In addition to ethanol produced by the Pacific Ethanol Plants, we also depend on a small number of third-party suppliers for a significant portion of the ethanol we sell. If any of these suppliers does not continue to supply us with ethanol in adequate amounts, we may be unable to satisfy the demands of our customers and our sales, profitability and relationships with our customers will be adversely affected. In addition to the ethanol produced by the Pacific Ethanol Plants, we also depend on a small number of third-party suppliers for a significant portion of the ethanol that we sell. We expect to continue to depend for the foreseeable future upon a small number of third-party suppliers for a significant portion of the total amount of the ethanol that we sell. Our third-party suppliers are primarily located in the Midwestern United States. The delivery of ethanol from these suppliers is therefore subject to delays resulting from inclement weather and other conditions. If any of these suppliers is unable or declines for any reason to continue to supply us with ethanol in adequate amounts, we may be unable to replace that supplier and source other supplies of ethanol in a timely manner, or at all, to satisfy the demands of our customers. If this occurs, our sales, profitability and our relationships with our customers will be adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and liabilities. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the air, water and ground, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, and the health and safety of our employees. In addition, some of these laws and regulations require us to operate under permits that are subject to renewal or modification. These laws, regulations and permits can often require expensive pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts to the environment. A violation of these laws and regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial fines, natural resource damages, criminal sanctions, permit revocations and/or facility shutdowns. In addition, we have made, and expect to make, significant capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to comply with increasingly stringent environmental laws, regulations and permits. 17 We may be liable for the investigation and cleanup of environmental contamination at each of the Pacific Ethanol Plants or other plants that we operate and at off-site locations where we arrange for the disposal of hazardous substances. If these substances have been or are disposed of or released at sites that undergo investigation and/or remediation by regulatory agencies, we may be responsible under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or other environmental laws for all or part of the costs of investigation and/or remediation, and for damages to natural resources. We may also be subject to related claims by private parties alleging property damage and personal injury due to exposure to hazardous or other materials at or from those properties. Some of these matters may require us to expend significant amounts for investigation, cleanup or other costs. In addition, new laws, new interpretations of existing laws, increased governmental enforcement of environmental laws or other developments could require us to make significant additional expenditures. Continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues can be expected to result in increased future investments for environmental controls at the Pacific Ethanol Plants. Present and future environmental laws and regulations, and interpretations of those laws and regulations, applicable to our operations, more vigorous enforcement policies and discovery of currently unknown conditions may require substantial expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The hazards and risks associated with producing and transporting our products (including fires, natural disasters, explosions and abnormal pressures and blowouts) may also result in personal injury claims or damage to property and third parties. As protection against operating hazards, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses. However, we could sustain losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Events that result in significant personal injury or damage to our property or third parties or other losses that are not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our ability to operate effectively may be impaired. Our ability to operate our business and implement strategies depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. Our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to retain our current key personnel and attract and retain qualified future key personnel, particularly executive management. Failure to attract or retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We depend on a small number of customers for the majority of our sales. A reduction in business from any of these customers could cause a significant decline in our overall sales and profitability. The majority of our sales are generated from a small number of customers. During 2010 and 2011, one customer accounted for approximately 22% and 19% of our net sales, respectively. We expect that we will continue to depend for the foreseeable future upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales. Our agreements with these customers generally do not require them to purchase any specified amount of ethanol or dollar amount of sales or to make any purchases whatsoever. Therefore, in any future period, our sales generated from these customers, individually or in the aggregate, may not equal or exceed historical levels. If sales to any of these customers cease or decline, we may be unable to replace these sales with sales to either existing or new customers in a timely manner, or at all. A cessation or reduction of sales to one or more of these customers could cause a significant decline in our overall sales and profitability. 18 Our lack of long-term ethanol orders and commitments by our customers could lead to a rapid decline in our sales and profitability. We cannot rely on long-term ethanol orders or commitments by our customers for protection from the negative financial effects of a decline in the demand for ethanol or a decline in the demand for our marketing services. The limited certainty of ethanol orders can make it difficult for us to forecast our sales and allocate our resources in a manner consistent with our actual sales. Moreover, our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future sales and, if our expectations regarding future sales are inaccurate, we may be unable to reduce costs in a timely manner to adjust for sales shortfalls. Furthermore, because we depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, the magnitude of the ramifications of these risks is greater than if our sales were less concentrated. As a result of our lack of long-term ethanol orders and commitments, we may experience a rapid decline in our sales and profitability. We recognized impairment charges in 2009 and may recognize additional impairment charges in the future. For 2009, we recognized asset impairment charges in the aggregate amount of $252.4 million. These impairment charges primarily related to our previously wholly-owned ethanol facilities. We performed our forecast of expected future cash flows of these facilities over their estimated useful lives. The forecasts of expected future cash flows are heavily dependent upon management’s estimates and probability analysis of various scenarios including market prices for ethanol, our primary product, and corn, our primary production input. Both ethanol and corn costs have fluctuated significantly in the past year, therefore these estimates are highly subjective and are management’s best estimates at this time. During 2010, as a result of the sale of our 42% ownership interest in Front Range, we incurred an additional loss on the difference between our cost basis of the investment in Front Range and the price at which we sold our investment. We may also incur additional impairments in the future on current or future long-lived assets. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock Our stock price is highly volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares of our common stock and in litigation against us. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate in response to one or more of the following factors, many of which are beyond our control: · our ability to maintain contracts that are critical to our operations, including the asset management agreement with the Plant Owners that provide us with the ability to operate the Pacific Ethanol Plants and the marketing agreements with the Plant Owners whose facilities are operational that provide us with the ability to market all ethanol and co-products produced by the Pacific Ethanol Plants; · fluctuations in the market price of ethanol and its co-products; · the cost of key inputs to the production of ethanol, including corn and natural gas; · the volume and timing of the receipt of orders for ethanol from major customers; · competitive pricing pressures; · our ability to produce, sell and deliver ethanol on a cost-effective and timely basis; · the introduction and announcement of one or more new alternatives to ethanol by our competitors; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · stock market price and volume fluctuations generally; · regulatory developments or increased enforcement; · fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; · additions or departures of key personnel; · our inability to obtain financing; and · our financing activities and future sales of our common stock or other securities. 19 Furthermore, we believe that the economic conditions in California and other Western states, as well as the United States as a whole, could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Demand for ethanol could also be adversely affected by a slow-down in overall demand for oxygenate and gasoline additive products. The levels of our ethanol production and purchases for resale will be based upon forecasted demand. Accordingly, any inaccuracy in forecasting anticipated revenues and expenses could adversely affect our business. The failure to receive anticipated orders or to complete delivery in any quarterly period could adversely affect our results of operations for that period. Quarterly results are not necessarily indicative of future performance for any particular period, and we may not experience revenue growth or profitability on a quarterly or an annual basis. The price at which you purchase shares of our common stock may not be indicative of the price that will prevail in the trading market. You may be unable to sell your shares of common stock at or above your purchase price, which may result in substantial losses to you and which may include the complete loss of your investment. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of high stock price volatility. We may be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and our resources away from our business. Any of the risks described above could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, the price of our common stock, or both. As a result of our issuance of shares of Series B Preferred Stock, our common stockholders may experience numerous negative effects and most of the rights of our common stockholders will be subordinate to the rights of the holders of our Series B Preferred Stock. As a result of our issuance of shares of Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, or Series B Preferred Stock, our common stockholders may experience numerous negative effects, including dilution from any dividends paid in preferred stock and antidilution adjustments. In addition, rights in favor of the holders of our Series B Preferred Stock include seniority in liquidation and dividend preferences; substantial voting rights; and numerous protective provisions. Also, our outstanding Series B Preferred Stock could have the effect of delaying, deferring and discouraging another party from acquiring control of Pacific Ethanol. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 