ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information presented in this Comprehensive annual report, the following should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our business. There are numerous and varied risks, known and unknown, that may prevent us from achieving our goals. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operation may be materially adversely affected. Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results, ability pay dividends or the trading price of our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Business - General We have incurred substantial losses in the past with our prior business and could continue to incur losses with our new business venture. Prior to our acquisition of a 49% ownership interest in the Red Arrow mine, located in Mancos, Colorado, in December, 2011, we were engaged in the acquisition, exploration, and development of onshore properties in the United States for the production of crude oil, condensates and natural gas, with properties in the States of Texas and California. We consistently operated our gas production facilities at a loss, with an accumulated deficit of $41,136,952 at December 31, 2008. Although we have extracted and stockpiled approximately 100 tons of ore since December, 2011, milled approximately 20 of these tons since February, 2012, which efforts have produced an average of one ounce of gold per ton of ore milled, we can not offer any assurances that our continuing and planned expansion of our mining efforts at the Red Arrow mine will continue to produce these results or that we will be able to produce any quantities of gold that could fund our mining operations or make them profitable. For the near term, our new business will be limited to a single mining property and any interruptions or cessations of our mining activities would have a materially adverse affect on our plan of operations and financial condition. At this time, we are focusing all of our resources on the exploration for gold, silver and other precious metals, and the establishment of production facilities at a single mine, the Red Arrow mine. The Red Arrow mine consists of approximately 790 acres of fee lands, patented and unpatented mining claims. We have only just recently funded our exploration and development activities in the Red Arrow mine, installing a small milling operation, with plans to install a larger milling facility within the next 30 days. If we identify sufficient deposits of gold, silver or other precious metals that can be commercially produced, any interruption in our mining activities such as a natural disaster, loss of a permit, the cessation of activities to remediate an environmental pollution event would have a materially adverse affect on our ability to generate revenues and could lead us to curtail or cease our mining activities altogether. Currently, we are not permitted to claim that the Red Arrow mine has any proven or probable reserves of gold, silver or other precious metals based upon applicable disclosure rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission for public company mining operations which could, if we chose to seek additional or alternative funding in the future, have a material adverse impact on such plans and efforts. We have not established the presence of any proven or probable reserves of gold, silver or any other precious metal at the Red Arrow mine that would comply with the requirements of Industry Guide 7 published by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). In order to establish proven or probable reserves of these precious metals, we would first need to undertake extensive exploratory drill sampling activities to identify substantial and continuous mineral deposits and then pay an independent engineering firm to prepare a feasibility study that demonstrates that these substantial and continuous deposits can be extracted and produced in a reasonably economic and timely manner. Until we have performed the tests and obtained the feasibility study required under Industry Guide 7, we can not make the claim that the samples of gold and silver extracted over the last several years by our partner, the Red Arrow Gold Corporation (“RAGC”), the owner of 51% of the Red Arrow mine, or the samples that we are extracting currently demonstrate that the Red Arrow mine contains any proven or probable reserves of these precious metals. We are, however, continuing to extract ore and collect gold from our milling operation at the Red Arrow mine, which mining activities may place us in the “production stage” category. While we have no current plans to raise additional or alternative debt or equity funding, our inability to claim that the Red Arrow mine has proven or probable reserves of gold, silver or other precious metals could have a material adverse affect on our ability to draw additional funds under our credit facility or any alternative future fund raising plans. 6 Historical production at the Red Arrow mine may not be indicative of any potential for current or future development According to “Geological Survey Professional Paper No. 219, a total of 621 tons of mineral ore were produced from 1933 to 1937, yielding approximately 4,114.5 ounces of gold and 6,928 ounces of silver, with an average of approximately 6.62 ounces of gold and 11.15 ounces of silver per ton, based on these extraction figures. Limited production continued up to 1942, yielding approximately 1.09 ounces of gold and 1.6 ounces of silver from the approximate tonnage of 10,146 tons. Although the Red Arrow mine produced these gold and silver quantities cited for brief periods in the past, and despite the results achieved to produce some quantities of gold in our ongoing current operations, there are no assurances at this time that this mine has any further material deposits or sufficient quantities of gold, silver or other precious minerals that can be economically produced. You should not rely on the fact that there were historical mining operations at the Red Arrow mine as an indication that the Red Arrow mine will be developed as a commercial production mining operation. Since we have not taken the required steps, such as the survey/drilling and feasibility studies required under the SEC’s Industry Guide 7 to establish the presence of proven or probable reserves at the Red Arrow mine, our current estimates of the presence and quantities of gold and silver at the Red Arrow mine are not reliable and potential investors should not make any investment decision based upon these estimates. With the exception of finding some quantities of gold by our partner, the Red Arrow Gold Corporation, over the past several years as well as during the current exploration/production phase of our business, we have not produced any quantities of gold from the Red Arrow Mine that could provide assurances that we will be successful in establishing mining operations or producing any gold, silver or other precious metals on a profitable basis. Although we have commenced some milling operations at the mine, we will be subject to the many risks associated with establishing a new mining operation, including:  the timing and cost, which can be considerable, of the construction of mining and processing facilities;  the ability to find sufficient gold, silver or other mineral reserves to support a mining operation over an extended period of time;  the availability and costs of skilled labor and mining equipment;  compliance with environmental and other governmental approval and permit requirements;  the availability of funds to finance construction and development activities;  potential opposition from non-governmental organizations, environmental groups, local groups or local inhabitants which may delay or prevent development activities; and  potential increases in construction costs, operating costs and working capital increases due to changes in the cost of fuel, power, materials, supplies, and other costs. Delays in the commencement of mineral production often occur. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our activities will result in profitable mining operations or that we will successfully establish mining operations or profitably produce metals at the Red Arrow mine. Gold exploration is a highly speculative business. Gold exploration activities involve a high level of uncertainty. These can be difficult to predict and are often affected by risks and hazards outside of our control. There is a possibility that we will not discover significant deposits of gold or silver deposits or any other resources at the Red Arrow mine in sufficient quality or quantity to support a mining operation. Unusual or unexpected geological formations, geological formation pressures, fires, power outages, labor disruptions, flooding, explosions, cave-ins, landslides and the inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment or labor are just some of the many risks involved in mineral exploration programs and the subsequent development of gold deposits. Mining is inherently dangerous and subject to conditions or events beyond our control, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Mining involves various types of risks and hazards, including: ·environmental hazards; ·power outages; ·metallurgical and other processing problems; ·unusual or unexpected geological formations; ·structural cave-ins or slides; ·flooding, fire, explosions, cave-ins, landslides and rock-bursts; ·inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment, or labor; ·metals losses; and ·periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. 7 These risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties, production facilities or other properties, personal injury, environmental damage, delays in mining, increased production costs, monetary Competition in the mining industry is intense, and we have limited financial and personnel resources with which to compete. Competition in the mining industry for desirable properties, investment capital and personnel is intense. Numerous companies headquartered in the United States, Canada and elsewhere throughout the world compete for properties on a global basis. We are a small participant in the gold mining industry due to our limited financial and personnel resources. We presently operate with a limited number of personnel and we anticipate that we will compete with other companies in our industry to hire additional qualified personnel which will be required to successfully operate our mine and mill site. We may be unable to draw down on our existing facility that would provide the necessary investment capital or personnel to fully explore and if warranted, develop our properties and be unable to acquire other desirable properties. Risks Relating to Our Business – Additional Financing Needs From Our Lender We may need additional financing from our current “Lender” and others (A) to meet our loan repayment obligations to our Lender and develop operations at the Red Arrow Mine, (B) to meet our put option obligations to our Lender and (C) to purchase the 51% of the Red Arrow mine owned by our partner, the Red Arrow Gold Corporation, which financing may not be available, or if so, may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. A. Our Lender payment obligations and our projected revenue. We have borrowed all of the funds used to start our mining operations and there can be no assurances that (A) we will be able to continue to borrow the funds necessary at the times and in the amounts required to continue to fund our mining exploration and planned production activities, or (B) that we will not default or breach a financial loan covenant, permitting the “Lender” to take ownership of all our assets, which, in either or both events, shareholders and public investors would lose their entire investment in our Company. To date, we have borrowed approximately $3.8 million under our subsidiary’s loan facility. On December 14, 2011, our wholly-owned subsidiary, American Patriot Gold, LLC (“APG”), obtained a $25 million loan facility from Maximilian Investors, LLC, a New York City based, Delaware limited liability company (the “Lender”).Pursuant to the Loan and Security Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) and the other transaction documents, APG delivered its two-year, secured revolving promissory note to Lender (the “Note”), with loan advances accruing interest from the date of the loan closing at the rate of 18%, per annum, payable on a monthly basis, commencing 120 days following the loan closing. The loan is secured by all of the assets of the Red Arrow mine, including the 49% of the mine owned by APG and the 51% of the mine owned by Red Arrow Gold Corporation, as well as the personal guarantee of Rocky V. Emery, our President, CEO and the Chairman of our Board of Directors. In addition, we pledged all of the outstanding shares of our other wholly-owned subsidiary, Energy Capital Corporation, whose only asset is a 3.453657% membership interest in Santa Maria Pacific Holdings LLC. Shortly after we closed on this loan facility, the Lender provided APG with an initial advance of approximately $2,500,000, which funds were used to pay off approximately $1.25 million of debt, approximately $150,000 in closing costs, with the balance of approximately $1,265,000 used to fund the mining operations through the initial 3 month period. A subsequent draw of $1,300,000 has been made and applied to pay the continuing operating expenses of the Red Arrow mine. The initial and subsequent loan advances were made based upon APG’s projected budget and revenue projections, including a commitment that during the second quarter of calendar year 2012, Red Arrow mine’s production would generate revenues in sufficient amounts to finance current mining operations and make our required loan payments. APG’s budget requirements and revenue projections are linked to certain financial covenants set forth in the Credit Agreement, including the requirements that APG’s monthly (and cumulatively from the closing date) projected budget line items, the projected revenues and the projected quantities of produced ore not vary by more than 20% from the budget or mining schedules provided and to be provided to the Lender. Although we believe that APG is currently in compliance with these financial covenants contained in the Credit Agreement, there are a myriad of factors or events beyond our control that could cause a budgetary line item, a projected revenue amount or a projected amount of produced ore to vary by more than 20%. In such an event, APG would be in default of the Credit Agreement, giving the Lender the legal right to foreclose on its lien over all of the Red Arrow mine assets, which could materially adversely affect our business and future financial condition and could require us to curtail or otherwise cease our operations resulting in the potential loss by our shareholders and public investors of their entire investment in our Company. B. Our potential Lender put option obligations. In connection with securing the Credit Agreement, we issued 18,865,520 shares of our restricted common stock to the Lender (the “Investor Shares”), representing 9.9% of our outstanding common shares at closing, as part of the consideration for making the loan. In addition, we delivered to the Lender a Put Option Agreement, giving the Lender two put options: the first, exercisable through December 31, 2012, permits Lender to cause us to purchase up to 50% of the Investor Shares for a cash purchase price equal to $0.20 per share, or a total put option price of $1,886,552, and; the second, exercisable during the period, January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013, permits Lender to cause us to again purchase up to 50% of the Investor Shares for the same $0.20 per share cash price, or for a total put option price of $1,886,552. Until the expiration or exercise of the second put option, we have agreed to provide the Lender with anti-dilution rights to maintain its 9.9% stock ownership position in our common shares. We may, therefore, need a total of $3,773,552 of funds to honor both put options and repurchase the Investor Shares. These obligations are carried at their present value as a liability on our balance sheet. 8 We have projected and are relying upon the future revenues generated by the Red Arrow mine to provide us with sufficient funds with which to pay these put option liabilities if such need arises. The two put options are also secured by all of the same collateral securing the Credit Agreement and the Note, including our 49% ownership interest in the Red Arrow mine. Accordingly, if we do not have sufficient funds to pay the put option prices for the Investor Shares, we would default under the terms of this Put Option Agreement and the Lender could foreclose on this collateral, in which event, shareholders and public investors could lose their entire investment. C. We may need additional funding under our Facility to acquire the 51% of the Red Arrow mine owned by the Red Arrow Gold Corporation which may not be readily available. On February 1, 2012, we signed a letter of intent to purchase the 51% ownership interest in the Red Arrow mine owned by the Red Arrow Gold Corporation (“RAGC”) and agreed to use our respective best efforts to close this transaction on or before May 2, 2012. Craig Liukko, the President, CEO and majority shareholder of RAGC, is a member of our Board of Directors and an employee of our subsidiary, APG. Under the existing LOI, we agreed: (1) to pay RAGC $10,000,000 cash, $3,500,00 of which amount is due at closing, with the balance accruing interest at the rate of 5% per annum and payable monthly in the amount of $200,000; (2) to issue to RAGC 40,000,000 restricted common shares; (3) to provide RAGC’s employees with an incentive stock option plan with a pool of 2,000,000 common shares, as well as health insurance benefits; (4) to assume and pay all of the operational expenses of the Red Arrow mine from the closing date, and; (5) a perpetual 5% net smelter return on all mineral rights acquired by us or our affiliates at the Red Arrow mine and within a 5-mile radius. As a minority owner in the Red Arrow mine, we would be subject to the management control of RAGC over all aspects of the project, including all mining operations, budgetary and employee matters. As the majority owner of the Red Arrow mine, RAGC would seek to manage, finance and operate the Red Arrow mine for and on behalf of the best interests of its own shareholders which interests could significantly differ from the best interests of our shareholders, and which could have a materially adverse affect on our plan of operations and financial condition. The global financial crisis may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have an impact on our business and financial position. The recent high costs of fuel and other consumables may negatively impact costs of our operations. In addition, the financial crisis may limit our ability to raise capital through credit and equity markets. As discussed further below, the prices of the metals that we may produce are affected by a number of factors, and it is unknown how these factors will be impacted by a continuation of the financial crisis. Our business will be subject to fluctuations in the market prices of gold, silver and other metals, which has fluctuated widely in the past and will have a direct material effect on our financial condition and future profitability. The value of the Red Arrow mine and our ability to raise other funding if needed to meet our financial obligations and establish our operations are directly linked to the market price of gold, silver and other precious metals. The price of gold may also have a material impact on the market price of our common stock. The price of gold, silver and other precious metals is volatile and affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including but not limited to world supply versus commercial demand for gold and jewelry containing gold; interest rates; the rate of inflation and deflation; currency exchange rates; global and regional political, economic and financial conditions; interventions and other actions taken by central banks, governments and speculators in response to these factors. Any material decrease in the market price for gold, silver and other precious metals could have a materially adverse affect on our financial condition and plan of operations and results, including our ability to finance our mining operations at the Red Arrow mine. There are no assurances that the market price for gold, silver and other precious metals will remain at current levels or increase due to any of the above mentioned factors or a combination of them. We must comply with present and future environmental regulations. Gold exploration and mining operations are subject to national and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including laws regulating removal of natural resources from the ground and the discharge of materials into the environment. Gold exploration and mining operations are also subject to national and local laws and regulations which seek to maintain health and safety standards by regulating the design and use of mining methods and equipment. Environmental standards imposed by national or local authorities may be changed and any such changes may have material adverse effects on our activities. Moreover, compliance with such laws may cause substantial delays or require capital outlays in excess of those anticipated, thus causing an adverse effect on us. Additionally, we may be subject to liability for pollution or other environmental damages which we may elect not to insure against due to prohibitive premium costs and other reasons. The discharge of pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to liabilities to foreign governments and third parties and may require us to incur costs to remedy such discharge. Compliance with such legislation can require significant expenditures and a breach may result in the imposition of fines and penalties, some of which may be material. We may be required to expend substantial sums in the future and this may affect our ability to develop, expand or maintain our operations. With respect to future environmental regulation, such legislation could require:  stricter standards and enforcement; 9  increased fines and penalties for non-compliance;  more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects; and  a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner we expect may result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability and potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. There can be no assurance that future changes to environmental legislation and related regulations, if any, will not adversely affect our operations. We could be held liable for environmental hazards that exist on the Red Arrow mine, whether caused by previous or existing owners or operators of the mine, and whether known or unknown at the time we acquire such interests. Any such liability could adversely affect our business, plan of operations and financial condition. We may be denied the government licenses and permits which we need to explore on our properties. In the event that we discover commercially exploitable deposits, we may be denied the additional government licenses and permits which we will need to mine our properties. Exploration activities usually require the granting of permits from various governmental agencies. For example, exploration drilling on unpatented mineral claims requires a permit to be obtained from the United States Bureau of Land Management, which may take several months or longer to grant the requested permit. Depending on the size, location and scope of the exploration program, additional permits may also be required before exploration activities can be undertaken. Prehistoric or Indian grave yards, threatened or endangered species, archeological sites or the possibility thereof, difficult access, excessive dust and important nearby water resources may all result in the need for additional permits before exploration activities can commence. As with all permitting processes, there is the risk that unexpected delays and excessive costs may be experienced in obtaining required permits. The needed permits may not be granted at all. Delays in or our inability to obtain necessary permits will result in unanticipated costs, which may result in serious adverse effects upon our business. We are dependent on certain key management personnel and the loss of any one could hinder the implementation of our business plan. We are heavily dependent on the members of our management team, Rocky V. Emery, our President, CEO and Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mark G. Harrington, our Vice-Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, and Craig A. Liukko of the Red Arrow Gold Corporation, our partner and experienced mining executive. The loss of any one of these management executives could have a material adverse affect on our ability to implement our business plan. The loss or unavailability of our management team or any one of these individuals upon which we depend to implement our business plan, our current operations and proposed plan of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to our Organization and our Common Stock Risks Related to our Common Stock We failed to timely file certain periodic reports with the SEC, presenting substantial risks to our company and business which could have materially adverse affects on our plan of operations and financial condition. We failed to file our Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2010, and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended June 30, 2009, September 30, 2009, March 31, 2010, June 30, 2010, September 30, 2010, March 31, 2011, June 30, 2011, and September 30, 2011. As a result, we were not in compliance with our periodic reporting requirements under the Exchange Act. Because of this failure to timely file these periodic reports, we are subject to potential enforcement actions by the SEC and shareholder lawsuits. An SEC enforcement action or a shareholder lawsuit against us for these failures could have a material and adverse impact on our plan of operations and financial condition. In such an event, we would not be able to register any of our securities for public sale for our benefit or for the benefit of our shareholders. Absent full compliance with our periodic reporting responsibilities, public investors will not have adequate current information upon which to make investment decisions. We do not expect to be able to access the public U.S. capital markets until all of its periodic reporting with the SEC is up to date. We will be unable to register our common stock with the SEC to access the U.S. public securities markets until we have filed its prior periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC. Although we may be able to raise capital on a privately negotiated basis, this precludes us from raising debt or equity financing in registered transactions in the U.S. public capital markets to support growth in its business plan. Internal control, fraud detection and financial reporting Our last Form 10-K filed with the Commission for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, noted significant deficiencies in our control environment and management did not assess the effectiveness of the Company’s then internal controls over financial reporting at December 31, 2008. Although management has done an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2011, deficiencies in these controls and procedures were again detected and disclosed. If we continue to have such deficiencies and are not able to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to detect fraud or report financial results accurately, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny. Failure to comply may make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage and/or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, on committees of our board of directors, or as executive officers. 10 Our common stock is quoted on the OTC “pink sheets” market, which does not provide investors with a meaningful degree of liquidity. Bid quotations for our common stock are available on the OTC “pink sheets,” an electronic quotation service for securities traded over-the-counter. Bid quotations on the pink sheets can be sporadic and the pink sheets do not provide any meaningful liquidity to investors. An investor may find it difficult to dispose of shares or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of the common stock. There can be no assurance that our common stock will be re-listed on the over-the-counter Electronic Bulletin Board or ever on a national exchange such as The NASDAQ Stock Market, the New York Stock Exchange or another securities exchange once we become current in our filing obligations with the SEC. Our stock price may be volatile. The stock market in general has experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of any specific public company. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following:  changes in our industry;  competitive pricing pressures;  our ability to obtain working capital financing;  additions or departures of key personnel;  limited “public float” in the hands of a small number of persons who sales or lack of sales could result in positive or negative pricing pressure on the market prices of our common stock;  sales of our common stock;  our ability to execute our business plan;  operating results that fall below expectations;  loss of any strategic relationship;  regulatory developments;  economic and other external factors; and  period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our common stock is subject to the “Penny Stock” rules of the SEC, which makes transactions in our stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our stock. The shares of Rock Energy Resources, Inc. common stock constitute “penny stocks” under the Exchange Act. The current classification as a penny stock makes it more difficult for a broker/dealer to sell the stock into a secondary market, which makes it more difficult for a purchaser to liquidate his or her investment. Any broker/dealer engaged by the purchaser for the purpose of selling his or her shares will be subject to rules 15g-1 through 15g-10 of the Exchange Act. Rather than having to comply with these rules, some broker-dealers will refuse to attempt to sell a penny stock. The "penny stock" rules adopted by the SEC under the Exchange Act subjects the sale of the shares of the Company’s common stock to certain regulations which impose sales practice requirements on broker/dealers. For example, brokers/dealers selling such securities must, prior to effecting the transaction, provide their customers with a document that discloses the risks of investing in such securities. Legal remedies, which may be available to an investor in "penny stocks,” are as follows: (a) if "penny stock" is sold to an investor in violation of his or her rights listed above, or other federal or states securities laws, the investor may be able to cancel his or her purchase and get his or her money back. (b) if the stocks are sold in a fraudulent manner, the investor may be able to sue the persons and firms that caused the fraud for damages. (c) if the investor has signed an arbitration agreement, however, he or she may have to pursue his or her claim through arbitration. If the person purchasing the securities is someone other than an accredited investor or an established customer of the broker/dealer, the broker/dealer must also approve the potential customer's account by obtaining information concerning the customer's financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. The broker/dealer must also make a determination whether the transaction is suitable for the customer and whether the customer has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be reasonably expected to be capable of evaluating the risk of transactions in such securities. Accordingly, the SEC's rules may limit the number of potential purchasers of the shares of our common stock. 11 We have never paid nor do we expect in the near future to pay dividends. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Investors should not rely on an investment in our Company if they require income generated from dividends paid on our capital stock. It is the Company’s intention to apply net earnings, if any, in the foreseeable future to finance the growth and development of the business ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 