Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to our Business We have incurred significant losses and negative operating cash flow in the past and we will likely incur significant losses and negative operating cash flow in the foreseeable future. Continued losses and negative operating cash flow will hamper our operations and prevent us from expanding our business. We have incurred significant losses and negative operating cash flow in the past. For 2009 and 2008, we incurred net losses of approximately $308.7 million and $199.2 million, respectively. For 2009 and 2008, we incurred negative operating cash flow of approximately $6.3 million and $55.2 million, respectively. We reported net income of $69.5 million for 2010, primarily due to a $119.4 million net gain in connection with the completion of the bankruptcy proceedings of our former indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries. We believe that we will likely incur significant losses and negative operating cash flow in the foreseeable future. We expect to rely on cash on hand, cash, if any, generated from our operations and cash, if any, generated from any future financing activities, if any, to fund all of the cash requirements o f our business. Continued losses and negative operating cash flow may hamper our operations and impede us from expanding our business. Continued losses and negative operating cash flow are also likely to make our capital raising needs more acute while limiting our ability to raise additional financing on favorable terms. We may not have cash on hand to satisfy our obligations under the Convertible Notes when required under the terms of the Convertible Notes. We are obligated to make principal and interest payments under the Convertible Notes prior to the maturity of the Convertible Notes and the entire outstanding principal amount of the Convertible Notes will become due and payable by us at maturity. We currently anticipate paying all amounts due under the Convertible Notes in shares of our common stock. However, we may be prohibited from satisfying our obligations under the Convertible Notes in shares of our common stock in a number of circumstances. Our ability to pay the amounts due under the Convertible Notes in cash will be subject to our liquidity position at the time. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient financial resources or be able to arrange financing to pay the amounts due under the Convertible Notes in cash on any date that we would be require d to do so under the terms of the Convertible Notes. While we could seek to obtain third-party financing to pay for any amounts due in cash, third-party financing may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We may not have the ability to redeem the Convertible Notes when required under the terms of the Convertible Notes. Holders of the Convertible Notes may require us to redeem for cash all or a portion of their Convertible Notes upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Convertible Notes or change of control events. Our ability to redeem the Convertible Notes in cash, if we are required to do so, is subject to our liquidity position at the time. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient financial resources or be able to arrange financing to pay the redemption price of the Convertible Notes on any date that we would be required to do so under the terms of the Convertible Notes. While we could seek to obtain third-party financing to pay for any amounts due in cash upon these events, third-party financing may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. 15 Provisions of the Convertible Notes could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. A number of provisions of the Convertible Notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of transactions constituting a change of control, holders of the Convertible Notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to redeem all or a portion of their Convertible Notes in cash. In addition, under the terms of the Convertible Notes, we may not enter into specified mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving person or entity assumes our obligations under the Convertible Notes or the holders of the Convertible Notes waive their right to have the surviving person or entity assume our obligations under the Convertible Notes. These provisions may make it more difficult or discourage a takeover of Pacific Ethanol. We are a minority member of New PE Holdco with limited control over that entity’s business decisions. We are therefore dependent upon the business judgment and conduct of the board of directors of that entity. As a result, our interests may not be as well served as if we were in control of New PE Holdco, which could adversely affect its contribution to our results of operations and our business prospects related to that entity. New PE Holdco owns, and we operate, the Pacific Ethanol Plants. We own 20% of New PE Holdco, which represents a minority interest in that entity. New PE Holdco is managed by a board of directors. Although we have representation on the board of directors, we do not control the actions of the board of directors and are therefore largely dependent upon its business judgment and conduct. As a result, our interests may not be as well served as if we were in control of New PE Holdco. Accordingly, the contribution by New PE Holdco to our results of operations and our business prospects related to that entity may be adversely affected by our lack of control over that entity. The termination of the asset management agreement and marketing agreements to which we are a party relating to the Pacific Ethanol Plants would lead to a significant decline in our sales and profitability. A significant amount of our revenues are derived from an asset management agreement with the Plant Owners under which we manage the production and operations of the Pacific Ethanol Plants. The asset management agreement has a term of six months and automatically renews for successive six month terms unless terminated by either party by giving notice 60 days prior to the end of any six month period. We also derive revenues from our activities related to the marketing of the ethanol and WDG produced by the Pacific Ethanol Plants under the terms of separate marketing agreements with the Plant Owners whose facilities are operational. If the asset management agreement or the marketing agreements are terminated for any reason, our revenues and financial condition will decline. We recognized impairment charges in 2009 and may recognize additional impairment charges in the future. For 2009, we recognized asset impairment charges in the aggregate amount of $252.4 million. These impairment charges primarily related to our previously wholly-owned ethanol facilities. We performed our forecast of expected future cash flows of these facilities over their estimated useful lives. The forecasts of expected future cash flows are heavily dependent upon management’s estimates and probability analysis of various scenarios including market prices for ethanol, our primary product, and corn, our primary production input. Both ethanol and corn costs have fluctuated significantly in the past year, therefore these estimates are highly subjective and are management’s best estimates at this time. During 2010, as a result of the sale of our 42% ownership interest in Front Range, we incurred an addition al loss on the difference between our cost basis of the investment in Front Range and the price at which we sold our investment. We may also incur additional impairments in the future on current or future long-lived assets. 16 The results of operations of the Pacific Ethanol Plants and their ability to operate at a profit is largely dependent on managing the spreads among the prices of corn, natural gas, ethanol and WDG, the prices of which are subject to significant volatility and uncertainty. The results of operations of the Pacific Ethanol Plants are highly impacted by commodity prices, including the spreads between the cost of corn and natural gas that they must purchase, and the price of ethanol and WDG that they sell. Prices and supplies are subject to and determined by market forces over which we have no control, such as weather, domestic and global demand, shortages, export prices, and various governmental policies in the United States and around the world. As a result of price volatility for these commodities, our operating results may fluctuate substantially. Increases in corn prices or natural gas or decreases in ethanol or WDG prices may make it unprofitable to operate the Pacific Ethanol Plants. No assurance can be given that corn and natural gas can be purchased at, or near, current or any pa rticular prices and that ethanol or WDG will sell at, or near, current or any particular prices. Consequently, our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected by increases in the price of corn or natural gas or decreases in the price of ethanol or WDG. In early 2006, the spread between ethanol and corn prices was at an historically high level, driven in large part by oil companies removing a competitive product, methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE), from the fuel stream and replacing it with ethanol in a relatively short time period. However, since that time, this spread has fluctuated widely and narrowed significantly. Fluctuations are likely to continue to occur. A sustained narrow spread or any further reduction in the spread between ethanol and corn prices, whether as a result of sustained high or increased corn prices or sustained low or decreased ethanol prices, would adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Further, combined revenues from sales of ethanol and WDG could decline below the marginal cost of production, which could cause us to suspend production of ethanol and WDG at some or all of the Pacific Ethanol Plants. Increased ethanol production may cause a decline in ethanol prices or prevent ethanol prices from rising, and may have other negative effects, adversely impacting our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We believe that the most significant factor influencing the price of ethanol has been the substantial increase in ethanol production in recent years. Domestic ethanol production capacity has increased steadily from an annualized rate of 1.5 billion gallons per year in January 1999 to 13.2 billion gallons in 2010 according to the RFA. See “Business—Governmental Regulation.” However, increases in the demand for ethanol may not be commensurate with increases in the supply of ethanol, thus leading to lower ethanol prices. Demand for ethanol could be impaired due to a number of factors, including regulatory developments and reduced United States gasoline consumption. Reduced gasoline consumption has occurred in the past and could occur in the future as a result of increased gasoline or oil prices. The market price of ethanol is volatile and subject to large fluctuations, which may cause our profitability or losses to fluctuate significantly. The market price of ethanol is volatile and subject to large fluctuations. The market price of ethanol is dependent upon many factors, including the supply of ethanol and the price of gasoline, which is in turn dependent upon the price of petroleum which is highly volatile and difficult to forecast. For example, our average sales price of ethanol increased by 9% in 2010 after decreasing by 20% in 2009 from the prior year’s average sales price per gallon. Fluctuations in the market price of ethanol may cause our profitability or losses to fluctuate significantly. 17 Disruptions in ethanol production infrastructure may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends on the continuing availability of rail, road, port, storage and distribution infrastructure. In particular, due to limited storage capacity at the Pacific Ethanol Plants and other considerations related to production efficiencies, the Pacific Ethanol Plants depend on just-in-time delivery of corn. The production of ethanol also requires a significant and uninterrupted supply of other raw materials and energy, primarily water, electricity and natural gas. The prices of electricity and natural gas have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. Local water, electricity and gas utilities may not be able to reliably supply the water, electricity and natural gas that the Pacific Ethanol Plants will need or may not be able to supply those resources on acceptabl e terms. Any disruptions in the ethanol production infrastructure, whether caused by labor difficulties, earthquakes, storms, other natural disasters or human error or malfeasance or other reasons, could prevent timely deliveries of corn or other raw materials and energy and may require the Pacific Ethanol Plants to halt production which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We and the Pacific Ethanol Plants may engage in hedging transactions and other risk mitigation strategies that could harm our results of operations. In an attempt to partially offset the effects of volatility of ethanol prices and corn and natural gas costs, the Pacific Ethanol Plants may enter into contracts to fix the price of a portion of their ethanol production or purchase a portion of their corn or natural gas requirements on a forward basis. In addition, we may engage in other hedging transactions involving exchange-traded futures contracts for corn, natural gas and unleaded gasoline from time to time. The financial statement impact of these activities is dependent upon, among other things, the prices involved and our ability to sell sufficient products to use all of the corn and natural gas for which forward commitments have been made. Hedging arrangements also expose us to the risk of financial loss in situations where the other party to the hedging con tract defaults on its contract or, in the case of exchange-traded contracts, where there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual prices paid or received by us. As a result, our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the price of corn, natural gas, ethanol and unleaded gasoline. Operational difficulties at the Pacific Ethanol Plants could negatively impact sales volumes and could cause us to incur substantial losses. Operations at the Pacific Ethanol Plants are subject to labor disruptions, unscheduled downtimes and other operational hazards inherent in the ethanol production industry, including equipment failures, fires, explosions, abnormal pressures, blowouts, pipeline ruptures, transportation accidents and natural disasters. Some of these operational hazards may cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Insurance obtained by the Pacific Ethanol Plants may not be adequate to fully cover the potential operational hazards described above or the Pacific Ethanol Plants may not be able to renew this insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all.< /div> Moreover, the production facilities at the Pacific Ethanol Plants may not operate as planned or expected. All of these facilities are designed to operate at or above a specified production capacity. The operation of these facilities is and will be, however, subject to various uncertainties. As a result, these facilities may not produce ethanol and its co-products at expected levels. In the event any of these facilities do not run at their expected capacity levels, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. 18 The United States ethanol industry is highly dependent upon myriad federal and state legislation and regulation and any changes in legislation or regulation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The elimination or reduction of federal excise tax incentives could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. The amount of ethanol production capacity in the United States exceeds the mandated usage of renewable biofuels. Ethanol consumption above mandated amounts is primarily based upon the economic benefit derived by blenders, including benefits received from federal excise tax incentives. Therefore, the production of ethanol is made significantly more competitive by federal tax incentives. The federal excise tax incentive program, which is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2011, allows gasoline distributors who blend ethanol with gasoline to receive a federal excise tax rate reduction for each blended gallon they sell regardless of the blend rate. The current federal excise tax on gasoline is $0.184 per gallon, and is paid at the terminal by refiners and marketers. If the fuel is blended with ethanol, the blender may claim a $0.45 per gallon tax credit for each gallon of ethanol used in the mixture. The 2008 Farm Bill enacted into law reduced federal excise tax incentives from $0.51 per gallon in 2008 to $0.45 per gallon in 2009. The federal excise tax incentive program might not be renewed prior to its expiration on December 31, 2011, or if renewed, it may be renewed on terms significantly less favorable than current tax incentives. The elimination or significant reduction in the federal excise tax incentive program could reduce discretionary blending and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. Various studies have criticized the efficiency of ethanol in general, and corn-based ethanol in particular, which could lead to the reduction or repeal of incentives and tariffs that promote the use and domestic production of ethanol or otherwise negatively impact public perception and acceptance of ethanol as an alternative fuel. Although many trade groups, academics and governmental agencies have supported ethanol as a fuel additive that promotes a cleaner environment, others have criticized ethanol production as consuming considerably more energy and emitting more greenhouse gases than other biofuels and as potentially depleting water resources. Other studies have suggested that ethanol negatively impacts consumers by causing higher prices for dairy, meat and other foodstuffs from livestock that consume corn. If these views gain acceptance, support for existing measures promoting the use and domestic production of corn-based ethanol could decline, leading to a reduction or repeal of these measures. These views could also negatively impact public perception of the ethanol industry and acceptance of ethanol as a component for blending in tra nsportation fuel. Waivers or repeal of the national RFS’s minimum levels of renewable fuels included in gasoline could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Shortly after passage of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, which increased the minimum mandated required usage of ethanol, a Congressional sub-committee held hearings on the potential impact of the national RFS on commodity prices. While no action was taken by the sub-committee towards repeal of the national RFS, any attempt by Congress to re-visit, repeal or grant waivers of the national RFS could adversely affect demand for ethanol and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. While the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 imposes the national RFS, it does not mandate only the use of ethanol. The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 imposes the national RFS, but does not mandate only the use of ethanol. While the RFA expects that ethanol should account for the largest share of renewable fuels produced and consumed under the national RFS, the national RFS is not limited to ethanol and also includes biodiesel and any other liquid fuel produced from biomass or biogas. 19 The ethanol production and marketing industry is extremely competitive. Many of the significant competitors of the Pacific Ethanol Plants have greater production and financial resources than New PE Holdco does and one or more of these competitors could use their greater resources to gain market share at the expense of New PE Holdco. In addition, a number of New PE Holdco’s suppliers may circumvent the marketing services we provide to New PE Holdco, causing our sales and profitability to decline. The ethanol production and marketing industry is extremely competitive. Many of New PE Holdco’s and our significant competitors in the ethanol production and marketing industry, including ADM, Valero and Green Plains Renewable Energy, have substantially greater production and/or financial resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to compete more aggressively and sustain that competition over a longer period of time than New PE Holdco or we could. Successful competition will require a continued high level of investment in marketing and customer service and support. New PE Holdco’s and our limited resources relative to many significant competitors may cause New PE Holdco to fail to anticipate or respond adequately to new developments and other competitive pressures. This failure could reduce New PE Holdco’s and our competitiveness and cause a decline in market share, sales and profitability. Even if sufficient funds are available, we and New PE Holdco may not be able to make the modifications and improvements necessary to compete successfully. We and New PE Holdco also face increasing competition from international suppliers. Currently, international suppliers produce ethanol primarily from sugar cane and have cost structures that are generally substantially lower than the cost structures of the Pacific Ethanol Plants. Any increase in domestic or foreign competition could cause the Pacific Ethanol Plants to reduce their prices and take other steps to compete effectively, which could adversely affect their and our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, some of New PE Holdco’s and our suppliers are potential competitors and, especially if the price of ethanol reaches historically high levels, they may seek to capture additional profits by circumventing our marketing services in favor of selling directly to our customers. If one or more of our major suppliers, or numerous smaller suppliers, circumvent our marketing services, our sales and profitability may decline. The high concentration of our sales within the ethanol marketing and production industry could result in a significant reduction in sales and negatively affect our profitability if demand for ethanol declines. We expect to be completely focused on the marketing and production of ethanol and its co-products for the foreseeable future. We may be unable to shift our business focus away from the marketing and production of ethanol to other renewable fuels or competing products. Accordingly, an industry shift away from ethanol or the emergence of new competing products may reduce the demand for ethanol. A downturn in the demand for ethanol would likely materially and adversely affect our sales and profitability. The volatility in the financial and commodities markets and sustained weakening of the economy could further significantly impact our business and financial condition and may limit our ability to raise additional capital. 20 As widely reported, financial markets in the United States and the rest of the world have experienced extreme disruption, including, among other things, extreme volatility in securities and commodities prices, as well as severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. As a result, we believe that our ability to access capital markets and raise funds required for our operations may be severely restricted at a time when we need to do so, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our current and future funding requirements and on our ability to react to changing economic and business conditions. We are not able to predict the duration or severity of any current or future disruption in financial markets, fluctuations in the price of crude oil or other adverse economic conditions in the Uni ted States. However, if economic conditions worsen, it is likely that these factors would have a further adverse effect on our results of operations and future prospects and may limit our ability to raise additional capital. In addition to the ethanol produced by the Pacific Ethanol Plants, we also depend on a small number of third-party suppliers for a significant portion of the total amount of ethanol that we sell. If any of these suppliers does not continue to supply us with ethanol in adequate amounts, we may be unable to satisfy the demands of our customers and our sales, profitability and relationships with our customers will be adversely affected. In addition to the ethanol produced by the Pacific Ethanol Plants, we also depend on a small number of third-party suppliers for a significant portion of the ethanol that we sell. We expect to continue to depend for the foreseeable future upon a small number of third-party suppliers for a significant portion of the total amount of the ethanol that we sell. Our third-party suppliers are primarily located in the Midwestern United States. The delivery of ethanol from these suppliers is therefore subject to delays resulting from inclement weather and other conditions. If any of these suppliers is unable or declines for any reason to continue to supply us with ethanol in adequate amounts, we may be unable to replace that supplier and source other supplies of ethanol in a timely manner, or at all, to satisfy the demands o f our customers. If this occurs, our sales, profitability and our relationships with our customers will be adversely affected. We and New PE Holdco may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and liabilities. We and New PE Holdco are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the air, water and ground, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, and the health and safety of our employees and the employees of the Pacific Ethanol Plants. In addition, some of these laws and regulations require the Pacific Ethanol Plants to operate under permits that are subject to renewal or modification. These laws, regulations and permits can often require expensive pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts to the environment. A violation of these laws and regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial fines, natural resource damages, crim inal sanctions, permit revocations and/or facility shutdowns. In addition, we and the Pacific Ethanol Plants have made, and expect to make, significant capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to comply with increasingly stringent environmental laws, regulations and permits. We and New PE Holdco may be liable for the investigation and cleanup of environmental contamination at each of the properties that New PE Holdco owns or that we operate, including the Pacific Ethanol Plants, and at off-site locations where we arrange for the disposal of hazardous substances. If these substances have been or are disposed of or released at sites that undergo investigation and/or remediation by regulatory agencies, we may be responsible under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or other environmental laws for all or part of the costs of investigation and/or remediation, and for damages to natural resources. We may also be subject to related claims by private parties alleging property damage and personal injury due to exposure to hazardous or other materials at or from those properties. Some of these matters may require us to expend significant amounts for investigation, cleanup or other costs. 21 In addition, new laws, new interpretations of existing laws, increased governmental enforcement of environmental laws or other developments could require us to make significant additional expenditures. Continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues can be expected to result in increased future investments for environmental controls at the Pacific Ethanol Plants. Present and future environmental laws and regulations, and interpretations of those laws and regulations, applicable to New PE Holdco’s and our operations, more vigorous enforcement policies and discovery of currently unknown conditions may require substantial expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The hazards and risks associated with producing and transporting our products (including fires, natural disasters, explosions and abnormal pressures and blowouts) may also result in personal injury claims or damage to property and third parties. As protection against operating hazards, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses. However, we could sustain losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Events that result in significant personal injury or damage to our property or third parties or other losses that are not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our ability to operate effectively may be impaired. Our ability to operate our business and implement strategies depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. Our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to retain our current key personnel and attract and retain qualified future key personnel, particularly executive management. Failure to attract or retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We depend on a small number of customers for the majority of our sales. A reduction in business from any of these customers could cause a significant decline in our overall sales and profitability. The majority of our sales are generated from a small number of customers. During each of 2010 and 2009, sales to our two largest customers, each of whom accounted for 10% or more of our net sales, represented approximately 24% and 32%, respectively. We expect that we will continue to depend for the foreseeable future upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales. Our agreements with these customers generally do not require them to purchase any specified amount of ethanol or dollar amount of sales or to make any purchases whatsoever. Therefore, in any future period, our sales generated from these customers, individually or in the aggregate, may not equal or exceed historical levels. If sales to any of these customers cease or decline, we may be unable to replace these sales with sales to eit her existing or new customers in a timely manner, or at all. A cessation or reduction of sales to one or more of these customers could cause a significant decline in our overall sales and profitability. Our lack of long-term ethanol orders and commitments by our customers could lead to a rapid decline in our sales and profitability. We cannot rely on long-term ethanol orders or commitments by our customers for protection from the negative financial effects of a decline in the demand for ethanol or a decline in the demand for our marketing services. The limited certainty of ethanol orders can make it difficult for us to forecast our sales and allocate our resources in a manner consistent with our actual sales. Moreover, our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future sales and, if our expectations regarding future sales are inaccurate, we may be unable to reduce costs in a timely manner to adjust for sales shortfalls. Furthermore, because we depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales, the magnitude of the ramifications of these risks is greater than if our sales were less concentrated. As a re sult of our lack of long-term ethanol orders and commitments, we may experience a rapid decline in our sales and profitability. 22 Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock We have received a delisting notice from The NASDAQ Stock Market. Our common stock may be involuntarily delisted from trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market if we fail to regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement of $1.00 per share. A delisting of our common stock is likely to reduce the liquidity of our common stock and may inhibit or preclude our ability to raise additional financing and may also materially and adversely impact our credit terms with our vendors. The quantitative listing standards of The NASDAQ Stock Market, or NASDAQ, require, among other things, that listed companies maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share. We failed to satisfy this threshold for 30 consecutive trading days and on June 30, 2010, we received a letter from NASDAQ indicating that the bid price of our common stock for the last 30 consecutive trading days had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share required for continued listing under NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). We were provided an initial period of 180 calendar days, or until December 27, 2010, during which to regain compliance. We failed to regain compliance by December 27, 2010 but, due to our transition from The NASDAQ Global Market to The NASDAQ Capital Market, we were provided a final additional period of 180 calendar days, or until June 27, 2011, during which to regain compliance. The letter states that the NASDAQ staff will provide written notification that we have achieved compliance if at any time before June 27, 2011, the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days unless the NASDAQ staff exercises its discretion to extend this 10 day period. If we do not regain compliance by June 27, 2011, the NASDAQ staff will provide written notice that our common stock is subject to delisting. Given the increased market volatility arising in part from economic turmoil resulting from the ongoing credit crisis, the challenging environment in the biofuels industry and our lack of liquidity, we may be unable to regain compliance with the closing bid price requirement by June 27, 2011. A delisting of our common stock is likely to reduce the liquidity of our common stock and may inhibit or preclude our ability to raise additional financing and may also materially and ad versely impact our credit terms with our vendors. The conversion into shares of common stock of convertible securities, including the Convertible Notes and our Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, and the exercise of outstanding options and warrants to purchase our common stock could substantially dilute your investment, impede our ability to obtain additional financing, and cause us to incur additional expenses. The conversion into shares of common stock of our Convertible Notes and Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, or Series B Preferred Stock, warrants to purchase our common stock, and outstanding options to acquire our common stock issued to employees, directors and others, could result in substantial dilution in the interests of our other stockholders. In addition, the terms on which we may obtain additional financing may be adversely affected by the existence and potentially dilutive impact of the Convertible Notes, Series B Preferred Stock, warrants and options. Moreover, holders of the Convertible Notes, Series B Preferred Stock, and certain warrants have registration rights with respect to the common stock underlying those securities, the registration of which will likely cause us to incur substantial expenses. The voting power and value of your investment could decline if our Convertible Notes are converted and our Warrants are exercised at a reduced price due to our issuance of lower-priced shares or market declines which trigger rights of the holders of our Convertible Notes to receive additional shares of our common stock. 23 We have issued a significant amount of Convertible Notes and Warrants, the conversion or exercise of which could have a substantial negative impact on the price of our common stock and could result in a dramatic decrease in the value of your investment. The initial conversion price of our Convertible Notes is subject to market-price protection that may cause the conversion price of the Convertible Notes to be reduced in the event of a decline in the market price of our common stock. In addition, the conversion price of our Convertible Notes and the exercise price of the Warrants will be subject to downward anti-dilution adjustments in most cases, from time to time, if we issue securities at a purchase, exercise or conversion price that is less than the then-applicable conversion price of our outstanding Convertible Notes or exercise price of the Warrants. Consequently, the voting power and value of your investment in each of these events would decline if the Convertible Notes or the Warrants are converted or exercised for shares of our common stock at lower prices as a result of the declining market-price or sales of our securities are made below the conversion price of the Convertible Notes and/or the exercise price of the Warrants. The market-price protection feature of our Convertible Notes could also allow the Convertible Notes to become convertible into a greatly increased number of additional shares of our common stock, particularly if a holder of the Convertible Notes sequentially converts portions of the Note into shares of our common stock at alternate conversion prices and resells those shares into the market. If a holder of the Convertible Notes sequentially converts portions of the Convertible Notes into shares of our common stock or if we issue shares of common stock in lieu of cash payments of principal and interest on the Convertible Notes, each at alternate conversion prices, and the holder of the Convertible Notes resells those shares into the market, then the market price of our common stock could decline due to the additional shares available in the market, particularly in the event of any thin trading volume of our common stock. Consequently, if a holder of the Convertible Notes repeatedly converts portions of the Convertible Notes or we repeatedly issue shares of common stock in lieu of cash payments of principal and interest on the Convertible Notes at alternate conversion prices and then the holder resells those underlying shares into the market, a continuous downward spiral of the market price of our common stock could occur that would benefit a holder of our Convertible Notes at the expense of other existing or potential holders of our common stock, potentially creating a divergence of interests between a holder of our Convertible Notes and investors who purchase the shares of common stock resold by a holder of the Convertible Notes following conversion of the Convertible Notes. The market price of our common stock and the value of your investment could substantially decline if our Convertible Notes or Series B Preferred Stock are converted into shares of our common stock, if we issue shares of our common stock in payment of principal and interest on our Convertible Notes and if our options and warrants are exercised for shares of our common stock and all of these shares of common stock are resold into the market, or if a perception exists that a substantial number of shares will be issued upon conversion of our Convertible Notes or Series B Preferred Stock, upon the payment of principal and interest on the Convertible Notes or upon exercise of our warrants or options and then resold into the market. If the conversion prices at which the principal balances of the Convertible Notes or Series B Preferred Stock are converted, the issuance prices at which shares of common stock in payment of principal and interest on the Convertible Notes are issued, and the exercise prices at which our warrants and options are exercised are lower than the price at which you made your investment, immediate dilution of the value of your investment will occur. In addition, sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock issued upon conversion of the Convertible Notes or Series B Preferred Stock, in lieu of cash payments of principal and interest on the Convertible Notes and upon exercise of our warrants and options, or even the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock , which would mean that the Convertible Notes would be convertible into an increased number of shares of our common stock in cases where, as described elsewhere in these Risk Factors, the conversion price is based upon a discount from the market price of our common stock. You could, therefore, experience a substantial decline in the value of your investment as a result of both the actual and potential conversion of our outstanding Convertible Notes or Series B Preferred Stock, issuance of shares of common stock in lieu of cash payments of principal and interest on the Convertible Notes and exercise of our outstanding warrants or options. 24 The issuance of shares of common stock upon the conversion of the Convertible Notes or Series B Preferred Stock, upon the payment of principal and interest on the Convertible Notes and upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants could result in a change of control of Pacific Ethanol. As of March 31, 2011, we had outstanding options, warrants, Convertible Notes (including shares issuable as interest in lieu of cash payments calculated at an interest rate of 8% per annum, compounded monthly, from the closing date of the issuance of the Initial Convertible Notes through the maturity date of the Convertible Notes) and Series B Preferred Stock that were exercisable for or convertible into approximately 85,389,291 shares of common stock based upon an assumed conversion price of $0.57 for the Convertible Notes and existing exercise prices for the warrants and options. In addition, as discussed elsewhere in these Risk Factors, the number of shares exercisable under outstanding warrants and convertible under outstanding Convertible Notes and Series B Preferred Stock may be subject to increase in the even t of our future issuance of securities or a decline in the market price of our common stock. A change of control of Pacific Ethanol could occur if a significant number of shares are issued to the holders of our outstanding options, warrants, Convertible Notes or Series B Preferred Stock. If a change of control occurs, then the stockholders who historically have controlled Pacific Ethanol would no longer have the ability to exert significant control over matters that could include the election of our directors, changes in the size and composition of our board of directors, and mergers and other business combinations involving Pacific Ethanol. Instead, one or more other stockholders could gain the ability to exert this type of control and may also, through control of our board of directors and voting power, be able to control a number of decisions, including decisions regarding the qualification and appointment of officers, dividend policy, access to capital (including borrowing from third-party lenders and th e issuance of additional equity securities), and the acquisition or disposition of assets. As a result of our issuance of shares of Series B Preferred Stock, our common stockholders may experience numerous negative effects and most of the rights of our common stockholders will be subordinate to the rights of the holders of our Series B Preferred Stock. As a result of our issuance of shares of Series B Preferred Stock, our common stockholders may experience numerous negative effects, including dilution from any dividends paid in preferred stock and antidilution adjustments. In addition, rights in favor of the holders of our Series B Preferred Stock include seniority in liquidation and dividend preferences; substantial voting rights; and numerous protective provisions. Also, our outstanding Series B Preferred Stock could have the effect of delaying, deferring and discouraging another party from acquiring control of Pacific Ethanol. Our stock price is highly volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares of our common stock and in litigation against us. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate in response to one or more of the following factors, many of which are beyond our control: · our ability to maintain contracts that are critical to our operations, including the asset management agreement with the Plant Owners that provide us with the ability to operate the Pacific Ethanol Plants; · our ability to obtain and maintain normal terms with vendors and service providers; · fluctuations in the market price of ethanol and its co-products; 25 · the volume and timing of the receipt of orders for ethanol from major customers; · competitive pricing pressures; · our ability to produce, sell and deliver ethanol on a cost-effective and timely basis; · the introduction and announcement of one or more new alternatives to ethanol by our competitors; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · stock market price and volume fluctuations generally; · the relative small public float of our common stock; · regulatory developments or increased enforcement; · fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; · additions or departures of key personnel; · our inability to obtain financing; and · future sales of our common stock or other securities. Furthermore, we believe that the economic conditions in California and other Western states, as well as the United States as a whole, could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Demand for ethanol could also be adversely affected by a slow-down in overall demand for oxygenate and gasoline additive products. The levels of our ethanol production and purchases for resale will be based upon forecasted demand. Accordingly, any inaccuracy in forecasting anticipated revenues and expenses could adversely affect our business. The failure to receive anticipated orders or to complete delivery in any quarterly period could adversely affect our results of operations for that period. Quarterly results are not necessarily indicative of future performance for any particular period, and we may not experience revenue g rowth or profitability on a quarterly or an annual basis. The price at which you purchase shares of our common stock may not be indicative of the price that will prevail in the trading market. You may be unable to sell your shares of common stock at or above your purchase price, which may result in substantial losses to you and which may include the complete loss of your investment. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of high stock price volatility. We may be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and our resources away from our business. Any of the risks described above could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability and the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 